1|First and foremost, it is an awesome phone with just one problem, 16 GB internal memory. If can do with that, just go for it. But if it is awesome, why am I giving this 1 star review. This has to do with the Flipkart return and refund policy and the "might be" inferior product product supply they offer. Purchased this phone in May,got a faulty one, so applied for a replacement piece. The device was then PICKED UP by Flipkart on 30 July, and kept the replacement on hold. Each time I made a phone call, I was given a 24 to 48 hour deadline to "resolve" the issue. After 20 days, I receive the news that the replacement has been cancelled and I will receive the refund for my purchase. And here is the most interesting part that I was told by the executive: Flipkart will initiate a refund after 4-5 days of picking up the product. Quite interestingly, the product they are refering to has ALREADY been picked 20 days ago. (Most probably they have got a time machine) Nevertheless, when I provide the proof of the pickup ; the reciept of courier pickup and the email from a Flipkart executive confirming their reception of product, I am told that their system is not showing any update in that regard and they have to confirm it from their warehouse which will again take their golden ratio of 24-48 hours. Thank you Flipkart for such an awesome service.
1|Worst ever 30 days return policy If any one purchasing this xiaomi mi4i mobile plz read it carefully or contact me(sachin.achara@yahoo.com) because i will help much any time as i cheated by flipkart First of all fake 30 days return policy 2nd heating will not covered in return or replacrment even the temperature goes over 45 degree if need i will show the result.. Third after open sale xiaomi is replacing sony camera with poor quality samsung camera so beware this Flipkart will replace the mobile only when a smart check application result will show defect and this result not show defect result because this is developed by seller side to reject the return.. So this smart check is also fake done by flipkart but we cant see the result.. The result will uploaded with hidden policy this all is done to reject the return or replacrment... And all customer care suggest the same solution to go to xiaomi service centre but xiaomi service centre is not many only one in rajasthan in jaipur so problem remains same after 3000 t0 4000 money spent no solition will found because xiaomi will send it to banglore service centre and customer will have to wait for 1 month.... At last mobile aspect Pros... Best display ...... Best front camera Light weight Many sensor and touch is so smoth Cons... Poor heating issue above 45 Always near to 40 Rear camera average Poor speaker High SAR value No memory card ...... But at end if you can bear 40 to 45 degree temperature then go for it But beware... Flipkart will not replace or return mobile or money even temperature goes above 50....
1|how can the phone be returned ??? its getting heated up very fast.. I think flipcart/xiaomi forgot the law (420) :- battery space mentioned on the website and on the actual product delivered are different website spec of battery is 3120mAh product delivered with 3030mAh After update, still heating issue
1|Its got over heated when idle and while calling its getting heat. Very poor quality and sound quality is also very poor and not able to hear ringer. There is network issue, webpages is not loading, every time loading error coming. Kindly return money. No replacement. ASAP
1|In order to get best performance, installed the over 800 Mb update that was indicated in the settings. Experience is as follows: Heats up on simple tasks like ten minutes of chatting on whatsapp or attending a 5 minute call. Battery gets gets drained fast. The battery might at max have a 1500 mAh capacity. Sound quality of speaker is poor. My 4 yr old Sony Ericsson Xperia Arc S runs a live wall paper like Juice Pro much more smoothly. In Mi4i, the movements are sluggish and slow. Compared the performance against my Samsung Galaxy Grand using Quadrant Standard and results showed that the I/O and 2D are better in Samsung. 3D is almost same for both. At this price they could have atleast provided earphones. So total waste of money as there is only option of replacement and not refund.
1|Don't have option to give negative rating.. its got Over heated while using. very poor quality.... not recommend... sound quality is also very poor. not able to hear ringer.. I requested flipkart to replace/return the set within 24 hours of receiving. They told me to give a call back from so called technical department. However, everytime they called and disconnected the call and postponing the call for next day... Issue not resolved till date...Despite of being an regular customer at flipkart, i am disappointed this time too much... Will not login back to flipkart in future. kindly return money. no replacement
2|I had a Mi3 earlier and was very happy with it. I readily switched to the Mi4i, primarily for 4G connectivity. Its been 2 full days since I have been using this phone and here are my first impressions: 1) Battery Life: Very Poor. The battery get fully drained out in 12-18 Hrs of moderate usage. 2) Performance: I am not into gaming but the phone is sluggish even for the most basic tasks like browsing. The animations etc. lag the touch (Check tab switching for Chrome Browser). 3) Bluetooth connection to my Moto360 is not stable and the watch keeps dropping connection. I have to switch off and on the bluetooth to reconnect. 4) Internet connectivity on 4G keeps dropping connection and again switch off/on brings the connectivity back. 5) Camera is generally fine but lacks the detail when taking a brightly lit shot. And now some positives: 1) Screen is really good. 2) Size and feel of the mobile is good. The negatives outweigh the positives by a huge margin and I just wish I had my Mi3 back, this one just doesn't work for me.
1|Great phone , cool features , interface is really nice.. BUT The heating is so bad that it is unbearable to make a call...It gets really hot close to the camera side and front top side. I don't run any games at all, even then.I have never experienced anything like this in a phone. Can MI fix this through a software update ? The device is really great..but this issue can be deal breaker any day...
1|Worst phone. heating like anything. Please call back all the phones and release a bug fixed phone. After two days of usage, 1. There is mechanical/hardware integration issue on the panel, you can see the lights penetrating outside from down side of the phone(exactly down side to the Back and Home button). this is damaged product by manufacturing itself. many others reported the same issue in the review 2. After MIUI update, the space is reduced about 2GB. 3. Out of 2GB RAM, 1.1GB was taken by Android Lollipop itself. 4. Cant play games, lagging and heating issues are there. 5. Definitely not worth for money, 6. The volume and Power buttons are so delicate. you can observe rattling of the keys. Kind Attn: MI Do something, buying a phone is not like buying vegetables in the market, its generally, 1-3 years plan. don't cheat people. you will loose your market in India. Hi Flipkart, you can convince people easily to opt this product. but remember, because of these kind of third parties, you are loosing your name. Dont encourage these ODMs for few cents. you may end up your growth exponentially. Flipkart didn't do anything for my return request. so please be careful guys. don't burnt your hands by buying this mobile.
2|1.sound quality so bad. 2.U can miss many calls due to poor sound. 3.why they use power amplifier. 4.Fake declaration by flipkart. 4.overall phone is ok I perches this phone but due to sound issue i complain to flipkart So the exchange my phone.So i hope for sound improvement.
1|So many bugs regarding proximity sensor issue, heating issue and sound issuer. The worst thing is they are not taking back this product so easily. They are playing with the customer for return policy. I request you all not to buy this product. The worst product from MI.
1|No games, no web surfing still heating to extent that I can't hold it near my ear. I used the phone for 10 mins going through settings of phone and it heat up considerably. All this when I am 'balanced' battery profile, not even "performance". Mr Hugo, what's the point of all these specs if you cant hold the phone in your hand or keep in the pocket because one would have to visit doctor for treating burns. Many now have reported heating issue. DO SOMETHING XIAOMI.
1|I never thought of making omelettes and half boils on a phone but, Yes, this is MI 4i makes that definitely possible. I didn't even installed any games and when i'm just setting up my mobile for 1st use,the HEAT was unbearable.. I was a bit shocked and place back MI 4i in its box. Later after 20min, You just don't need to touch the phone but by touching box itself you can notice HEAT...that was too much hot, this is really troublesome and fearful I hate Xiomi for releasing such a worst phone for Indians. I think Mi can't fool anyone here in the next release...
1|There is software problem all icon got black. Fast dailing issue..heating problm.battry discharge if we connect charger without power on. Always phone used more then 1.4 GB of ram i have not installet any other apps or running anything but always show 890 or 640 free of 2GB.. ROM usable only 10.80GB of 16GB when i recived the phone. Ring sound is low. Didnot show the miss call on home or lock screen just a small icon in top left notificatin of miss call Please dont by this phone itsnoy good
1|I just started setting up the phone on first boot up (location, language, google account etc.,). The phone got heated up and it is really unbearable to use. Phone design, camera, MIUI etc., looks great but I cant compromise on heating issue for these features!!!
1|Phone is handy, compact looks good...but has heating problem while multitasking.. It gets heated near camera and sometimes become too hot while playing high HD games & is connected to wifi....:/
1|Touch---- fine Processing--- fine Camera---- not even compete with 8MP of my HTC one x Heating is an issue Battery --- seems they just tell 3120 otherwise its backup is like 2000 mAh only Built Quality--- Not looks like a brand... cheap Chinese mobile types Sound quality... very poor Even Headphone not provided Flipkart must confirm the quality of the product before they selling new products, i m totally disappointed with this.
2|Not happy with Mi 4i... Issues: 1. Phone was heating when I use Mobile Internet, Phone calls and even for Camera usage also... 2. They mentioned RAM as 2GB but system is taking 1GB for basic services running and if we install any app on mobile, then it is having only 500-600 MB free, hence applications are launching very slowly (Some times unresponsive) Planning to return after 1-2 days of usage.. if it still the same, i'll return the mobile.
1|Pro's : 1) Promised display quality 2) Unique MI UI (user experience). 3) Form factor 4) Light weight(I dont know how many would consider that a plus) and fits well in hands. Con's: 1) Speaker is a big drawback. Put google maps and the lady who navigates you can never be heard even if you keep the phone close to your ears. Ask your friend to call you and put it on speaker. There is no way you can ever hear him even in absolute silence let alone some noise. Seriously flawed speakers. 2) Processor, if it is a quad core and takes longer than a 512 mb old phone (Remember those days when we click on camera icon and wait for the camer or gallery to appear for ever?), to fire up an app, then the manufacturer is either lying to you or its just a way too bad processor. 3) Camera is not good and goes to prove that just 13MP is just a number. 4) Heat, heat and just too much heat : If you can keep this Mi 4i next to your ear for more than one minute without feeling the heat (And that tall claim about SAR, that seems B.S), trust me, you got really lucky. Because all the phones I checked are getting hotter than one can imagine. 5) Touch response is weird. I am touching on the right bottom button at the bottom of the display and it is opening the icon above it. And I checked this 100 times. 6) Most of your memory is already taken up by the time you receive the phone. Only 500-700 mb left. I fail to understand why I bought a 2GB phone. To see that it is all taken up ? 7) Phone is dead slow. Summary : The last time I bought Moto E, I was so impressed with it that I literally made 30 people buy it. I plan on doing the same with Mi 4i. Only this time,I want to discourage as many people as possible from buying it . I plan on spreading the word as much as possible. Really, trust me. Its not worth it.
1|its got Over heated when idle , while calling or in use scared might be explode. burnt like feeling. very poor quality.... not recommend... sound quality is also very poor. not able to hear ringer.. kindly return money. no replacement
2|As usual great service by Flipkart, on time delivery. I am using this phone from past 1 day now. I was setting this up with usual stuff like accounts, wifi and sound etc, it started getting heated up. Even 10 mins of subway surfer like games gets this phone to get heated up. Otherwise phone is decent with miui v6, good camera etc. I have mi3 which is pretty solid in this area.
2|I got the phone today though it is good to look there is problem of overheating when the phone is getting charged or updated.Really disappointed on seeing this just after opening box and charging the phone.Hope they fix this issue.Regret buying this phone.
1|hi all... I seriously doubt that this phone has corning OGS glass... i bought a new Mi4i few days(40-45 days) back from flipkart... and now this mi 4i with gorilla glass got cracked by a little thumb pressure now touch is not working....and service center told me that it cost rs 12000 phone costing 12999 display costing 12000 my overall experience and review is very bad..plz dont get trapped.. don't buy.. this cheap, fake, Chinese company product..
1|I got this thru Flipkart on 4th May Order ID OD102724820587653400 and raised a return request also. This is one of the below standard phone from Mi. The biggest problem, While dialing to any number call gets connected or not but the dialer pattern is not visible. I don't know to which number it gets connected. There is no way to disconnect the call as the pattern is invisible. Tried several times as unable to reach MI support.But the same issue. The other biggest issue is heating which I can manage but the display pattern not works may be a fault in the product. The MI4I is below quality I an say compared to other MI
1|Phone gets heated usually at the top of screen as well as on the back side. I read few reviews quoting about phone getting heated. Even after updating the phone (which took around 1 hour_internet speed dependent), the heating problem persists. Though the phone is packed with great features & ergonomic design, but this problem can't be overlooked. Would like to request all future buyers not to buy Mi 4i, until this problem gets officially addressed by Xiomi.
2|brought this last week.. not that happy with the phone .. claims faster battery charging.. i dont think thats happening next 64 bit octa core processor --- had tough time playing real racing game.. network issues. doesnt let me download .. need to submit it multiple times. only good thing i see is look and light weight. lot more has to be done to bring it on par with others phones.
1|Pros: 1. Good display 2. light weight Cons : 0. Unable to see the pictures, videos and music, need to download various related apps to listen music, photoes etc., They didn't provide any manual also........... 1. Heats up a lot 2. Only 9.5 GB Memory available after the update. U will be scared to install any apps in this. 3. Camera not that great. 4. Rigng volume is dead low.Even vibration mode is not effective. 5. One can feel a electric shock around Camera area while charging(try to keep the charging phone on your cheeks, you can feel mild zerk) 6. Week WIFI connectivity and some times it won't connect at all. 7. Hangs now and then. 8. The white back is prone to dirt and will be soiled soon. 9. No proper back covers available in the market. 10. Available Ram is below 500mb with minimum apps installed. No idea where the rest is consumed. 11.Better carry a hair pin/or the one provided by company in your wallet,you may need it while changing the sim cards. 12. No ear phones provided for a mobile of RS. 13000/- More detailed review wil follow soon.
1|Imagine a situation where u have a delicious dish in front of u but can't eat it even knowing that its going to taste awesome just because its too hot to eat..something similar had happened to me with this Mi4i..all specs performance was great..the display the camera the overall touch experience and the built quality with a slim design its really brilliant..overall it do seems a very expensive phone..also the battery life was really good with the fact that it has an octacore processor and a full hd display...And the miui over android gives a very much an iOS like experience which is also really great..but with so many great things and pros there is just one major cons which surpasses all pros is that the heating issue.. yes i can understand any smartphones do get heated up a lot when u do heavy tasks like gaming continuously for 15-20 mins but with very casual uses like doing Facebook and net browsing just for 2-3 mins if gets heated up that too so much that u can't even place the phone in our ears for taking calls and have to depend upon earphones or loud speakers , that is really intolerable even for a great phone like this..and i have been using the phone in an ac room..although xiaomi has given a few updates on miui which demands it solves this heating issues but believe me it doesn't do things any different at all.. When I first reported this problem to Flipkart they did provide me a replacement but that new one had the same issues as well.. infact the new one along with the heating issues has various other small issues like light sensors not working, wifi was not working properly..so after that being really irritated i called Flipkart and this time I requested to give my refund as I had enough with this phone..and i must thanks to Flipkart's customer care guys who really helped me a lot and agreed to give my refund..so thumbs up to Flipkart's service which did provide my refund within less than 24hrs of making the request.. But I really wish I could keep as I said within 13k its really impossible to get a phone as brilliant as this .. So finally i would recommend who ever planning to buy this purchase this only if u r leaving in a place where the temperature is at sub zero level :D
1|1. HEATING HEATING HEATING!! Firstly heats up during charging up to 40 degree and browsing 42 degeree. Then Just try and change themes or browse internet for a while and your phone feels like its suffering from high fever and it goes up to 45 degrees . Then play games for a while and you can make water warm and milk if it is water proof. If you still want to push it, go ahead and try to make a call and stay on it for 20 min, you will have to get medication for ear burns! 2. MIUI - A SPACE HOG After installing the latest updates i am left with only 10 GB of space. I have not installed any apps from play store than what came along with the phone. With no expandable memory this is quite an issue. 3. LAG - SOMETIMES Even switching home screens lags sometimes. My old 512 mb ram powered android ics mobile was better when it was new in playing games of its time. Subway surfers starts lagging after just 15 min of gameplay. Now 2 GB of RAM and a 64 bit 2nd gen octacore and then lag, c'mon who are we kidding here! 4. LOW VOLUME ON EXTERNAL SPEAKER Go to a noisy indian market and i assure you that you will miss a call coz you could not hear it. 5. 13 MP BACK CAMERA - produces blurry images in moderate lighting. Its good in very bright lighting though. Bottom line: I could have bought a yureka (almost same specs but larger screen) for a far lesser price, but since i wanted a screen not more than 5 inch, i bought this. I don't mind spending extra money but do not want heat generating hand warmer. I live in south india, NOT kashmir.
1|For the first time i am feeling cheated by Flipkart. The phone I got has several problems. First its sound output is very low. Secondly the phone gets heated very quickly. The battery drains very fast.
1|Please do not waste your money on buying this phone. The sound quality is pathetic. Even at the maximum sound, you would miss calls. Its that bad. I have been told by Flipkart that they cant be bothered, as Xiaomi is at fault. Its really a sad situation to be in.
1|Don't Buy This Phone. They are totally doing fraud with customer. I bought MI4i Cell phone. Phone is heating lot. Ring volume very low. Also Big problem in screen. Whenever I dial the call screen goes totally blank. I can not disconnect the call in between. I complaint to flipkart first they told me Seller is not replace your product. Now I complaint with MI company service center. They are also not answering properly. Now they are telling me to go our service center & service center number is also not working. They don't have it's alternet number. Very worst situation. My money it's totally waste.
1|I received the phone about 3 days ago but neither the phone speaker nor the SIM was bieng detected. Even after filing a return, it has been only been one contact in which they asked me to download an app for the diagnostics but never told me what to download and after that there is no contact from them. I have been buying from Flipkart for a long time but their service has really degraded quite a bit in recent times. Edit: If you give a time for callback either follow it to point or don't give some stupid reason like this is not a dialer or we can not call you back in 10 min or so.(Gave me callback time for 1:30pm and called at 1:00pm when I was eating my lunch and said couldn't callback at assigned time and will allot me a new time on the next day) People have work to do. I even adjusted my according to your callback time and then you give me this stupid reason. Whats more this is the third callback time that you gave me after my first one in which you asked to download an app which you would send a link for and never send it till this date. Also, who gives the time for callback during lunch hours and expect the person to not his food. If you don't want to replace the item, just say so, don't waste people's time. I will arrange some other way to get my return. I am not sure if I would buy anything from Flipkart after such an incident. I have to ask people to be careful of such incidents happening to them. Edit 2: I have not been contacted till now after the initial contact and was given a new timing for fourth time and then suddenly out of the blue, my return request status has been updated as resolved. WOW..... FLIPKART invented a new technique to resolve a hardware defect without even a single contact.. Someone give them a NOBEL Prize for such an achievement... It would save millions...no....billions of dollars worth of material and time...
1|Going by the advertisement Mi4i is just a pathetic mobile phone in terms of Gaming & Camera usage. Mobile is good for making calls...but battery is pathetic for user making more than 50 calls and using Whatsapp & Google Masps. If u are a gamer then U jus did the greatest mistake of ur life by buying this mobile. As I played Need for Speed for 30 mins....it was unable for me to hold the mobile temp was 55 degree Celcius. Try dis *#*#4636#*#* and check for battery temp. I'm really fed up with this mobile...within less than a month, the mobile is hanging and heating up like anything. Plz Plz dont buy this phone. Moto G2 is the best option. Dont go for this pathetic piece of shit...
1|this is total waste of money.............. this phone is nothing but cheating with customers. I have bought this phone last week itself android apps are not working. over heating problem is there..... it become terribly hot when talk over the phone for just 10 or more minutes...... NOTIFICATIONS ARE NOT GET ACTIVATED....... WHATSUP IS ALSO NOT GETTING CONNECTED WITH THE PHONE MEMORY...... I AM VERY MUCH FRUSTRATED....... so my humble request is DONT BUY THIS PHONE. DON'T BUY THIS PHONE DON'T BUY THIS PHONE DON'T BUY THIS PHONE
1|Mi 4i is a really poor phone, As soon as i put in a request for refund with your site, I got a message ti install some app from visiting a link and even with H+ sign on my 3 G network, I kept trying from last 5 hours now and this app is not installing but it's not an app issue, its rather phone connectivity issue that even with H+ sign i can't sync my facebook account too which i have enabled to work on data, same is the condition with Watsapp, I m highly dissatisfied with the performance and want my money to be returned. Apart from this, I have complaints with the speaker quality, over heated issue and 3 G connectivity is a major issue. And i am surprised with Flipkart return policy now, even they know its a bad product still coming up with new tricks of downloading app to return product so that people who lask time should skip one month and they dont have to bother about user complaints. Really disappointed from Flipkart services. Although I am a regular buyer of mobile devices from Flipkart and have bought all modles of xiaomi by now. Expecting a call back soon. If you really care about user experience and feedback
2|If we talk about the phone camera, interface, themes, user easiness, no lag etc then its an amazing phone in this segment. Main Problem 1. Heating with minor multi use. 2. Withe every system update you get camera lag issue or touch not working or phone hangs during call for 10-15 second 3. major apps some function do not work, example- whatsapp voice notes do not work. i am amazed by the flipkart service though, they send a link to me by which i downloaded the app and by that app flipkart checked my phone and then eventually when they found issues they refunded me. Hatss Off service by flipkart.
1|I have purchased Mi4i mobile from Flipkart on 15th May 2015, This Mobile looking very nice. Camera, colour display so good. But it has main defects is network!!! I have purchase microsim for this. First day i have inserted the called to meny time working good outgoing call. @ night i have full charged the mobile Kept it. Morning i sow the mobile its shows as No sim!!! its surprize to me, I have inserted micro sim called kept night morning it shows "Insert sim" sudden i have rebooted the devise & then i got able to do outgoing calls & incoming call. But after 45 minutes (if no use the mobile) Same thing continuing "insert sim" Again i did selected Network "3G" Now phone not showing "insert Sim" but the main problem started here!!!! I am not able get call form incoming. becaused called from other mobile its says *switched off!!!!!. I *missed lots of call. I checked the sim inserting in Samsung ( basic mobile) mobile it working good. checked with Airtel people also ( service provider) they have also checked Network & sime working good. So i had raised request for replace the Device (mobile) 4 time many times flipkart not able to contact me because of the phone network issue they have agreed also!!. Yes! i am not able to get calls, i am missing so many calls, suffering from this mobile. Request you to Please take this high priority replace the Mobile Mi4i Below are the phone problems 1. Sim slot not working ? No sim 2. Network place also if called from other mobile it telling as Not reachable or Switched off 3. Many times called from Other Mobile Mi4i will ringing after4 to 5 rings. 4. Calling to other Mobile Saved Contact Photo not able to view. 5. Other Application open that time Mi4i become not reachable ( ex: SMSing using Watapp) 6. Many times calling other mobile it will take 1 mints to give ring. 7. Manny time Mi4i will become Not reachable/Switched off!!!.
1|3100+ battery & 5inch phone combination would make every one realize wud give the best battery back up .. I would say 9hours of average usage . Heating issues obeserved even without playing games just browsing itself one could feel phone gets warmer. Mui6 software is good but not as smooth as other Custom OS like cynogenmod . What s good about phone : Screen quality, Overall build , and 5inch size. Could have provided sd card support .10gb of free space is very less.
2|I bought this phone for my wife as a gift to her. I was impressed with the tech specs. On paper, this phone looked really very good. I personally use an iPhone 6 Plus and a Google Nexus 5. On the basis of those technical specifications, I went ahead and bought this phone. I must say this phone is a pretty cheap phone with below average performance. In just over 3 days, phone started freezing. My wife is not tech savvy, so she had in total 6-7 apps installed for basic use. Phone freezed, got heated and the overall performance was very sluggish. On loud speaker, you could barely hear what the person on the opposite end is speaking. Speaker volume and overall volume, is extremely low. I have asked for a replacement. I wanted a refund, but I guess, I don't have an option. So, my money is dumped and wasted. My advice to you guys: Don't go on price tags and on paper specifications. Go for tried and trusted brands. I have lost my money in this phone, you be careful!
1|The phone's screen is too delicate. It fell from the mattress which is 2 inch in height, on a mat, the screen cracked and the touch stopped working. The flipkart person said he's helpless.
1|The phone heats up like crazy. Xiaomi's own MIUI interface sucks and is very disorienting for an old time Android user. An extremely poor phone that is good only if you consider the technical specification sheet. Repent buying the phone.
1|1. Mobile heating problem 2. Internet Issue 3. Apps are hanging 4. 2GB RAM but after using 2,3 apps Free RAM only 400 MB 5. Slow processing. 6. You miss your call due to low sound quality Don't purchase it guys, worst phone i had use till date. Wasted my 13K. Overall not working as per specification given.
1|within 1 month 5 days mobile starting a lot of problem ..currently in service center of MI ,they are telling 25 days need to take display and motherboard change .. heating issue after updated also .. battery worst ever .. hang even small app .. camera quality is good and UI is only good
1|not satisfy with mobile n service,heavy phone not with good battery.heating problem no memory card slot n network problem
1|I had bought this phone on 23rd May 2015 and used it with out any problem and believed the phone is very good up to 19th July 2015. Suddenly the speakers had failed so no ring tone and speaker was not working. Went personally to on 20th July 2015 to HCL touch authorised service center for MI had to wait for atleast 2 hours to be attended and the Service took about a week and the phone was delivered on 25th July 2015 with out battery on it. I had again visit on 29th to complain about over heating like a hote plate, charging for entire night but still no use battery drains very fast and then never goes up on charging to more than 40% after which we need to lift the phone only with gloves as it is very hot against visited the service center on 31st July 2015 who said in 15 minutes the problem will be resolved as they will reset the phone and give after 15 minutes of charging again the phone was a hot plate and the service center advised me to leave the handset for another 7 days to 10 days to which i replied they can take 20 days time but need to give me the hand set as i had purchased. Due not having a back up phone I had lost many business calls and i do not recommend any one to buy. If you are unlucky like me you will waste your time and end to up into problem of buying a bad product. I am planning to spread the message to atleast 2000 people whom I know. I suspect the service center had replaced my good battery to a bad battery set as the phone / hand set is sealed as you cannot remove battery. If company persons and flipkart read this message take this very serious as service center persons does not give genuine information about this phone when the trouble starts.
1|Yesterday I went to get my Mi repaired at REDNIGTON. I was shocked to see the large no of people lined up for repairs....The entry register of 30th was full page for complaints, what must be the status on other days is not known. On the top of it the behavious of REDINGTON staff was pathetic. U cannot afford to wait for 5-7 hours to get your phone checked up. There are no service counters, no staff except two receptionist, 2 reapirs person, handling MANY PRODUCTS BRANDS. And the Manager Ashish is horrible. I came back unattended........Guys next time Ill send pics too.
1|I bought this phone about month and half ago. It hardly worked fro 10 days and then its battery stopped charging. Gave to Mi service center in Noida. They took 15 days and said it's ok. Checked the charging at home - it doesn't work. Service center is pathetically managed, staff is least bothered about customers.
1|Phone was ok.After a week of usage,i dropped the phone. And the Corning OGS glass is gone !!. Though i gave it for a replacement when i enquired after twenty days,the Service center replied that it might still take more than a month as Xiaomi is not supplying any spares for Mi 4i. So, Please don't buy this,if it might fall down even once
1|Phone is overheating, also hangs. Even the sound is not clear How can you flipkart keep such a phone. Return policy is bad. These guys are just telling to update but nothing worked out. Please take this phone back
1|MI 4i .. i got mi 4i but it has HEATING problem. 40. Celsius on normal use , without playing game or playing video.. I requested for return , but flipkart reply me that 40.celcius is normal heat. they are not ready to return and rejected my request,, Now i am going to compare the Service of Flipkart and Amazon AMAZON i brought a yu yureka from amazon,, normaly I called to Amazon and ask that,, "I feel some heating issue in yu yureka" customer executive reply me " sir please dont keep the phone if u are not satisfy with the phone ,, and i will help you how you can return" FLIPKART 40. Celsius on normal use , without playing game or playing video.. I called to Flipkart and ask for replacement defective phone,, They given me an app for troubleshooting,, but no one called me for troubleshooting,, they rejected my request without any satisfaction.. Now i Have to use the defective phone,, and i am using. Thank you flipkart ,,
1|i purchased phone on 10 june but it has heating problem , phone gets heat up after 10 min of surfing.i requested for return but the flipkart refused to return.....i suggest not to purcahse any electronic item from flipkart
1|I have purchased this phone, made a complaint earlier and now after almost a month phone stopped working, You can dial a number but neither you can receive a call nor you can recive calls. Exptremely unhappy with the phone or the service. Reg
1|over heating during internet and camera use. battery is unsufficient due to over heating. fix this problem then phone will be excellent.
1|Hello everyone I am using this product from 28th may, bought in recent sale and from the very first day I am facing the performance issues with my Mi 4i respective to Battery performance,Camera and most important phone speed performance. As company said they installed Octacore Processor of top Brand snapdragon Quallcom but as per my experience it is very sluggish peformance. even MY Moto E is performing very much fast than Mi 4i. So fellas advice for all think before buying that phone. please check that phone before buying if any of your known having that Mi 4i. I will never recommend anyone to buy this phone,better to buy iphone 4s 8GB at same cost. Atleast Apple having Brand value in the world.
1|I turned on the device and tried connecting to Wi-Fi but no network is being detected, when reported to Mi support they asked to reboot but no difference was seen.I called flipkart support and as they said their technician called back within half a day. Here's where it goes crazy, They asked me to perform a factory reset and I did which turned useless.Then they gave me link to download an APK so that they could remotely test it. I told them I couldn't do that because the issue itself was that I couldn't connect to Wi-Fi. They asked me to use mobile Internet, for which I said that I don't have Internet on my sim card as this was my first smartphone, I didn't have it till now. They say I'm supposed to have it one way or other. Now even if I have the mobile network and they do fix the issue, why should I keep this piece which is faulty in the first place. I hope they replace the product without aany melodrama. -Tired of speaking to them.
1|in my Mi4i since starting my mobile browser is not working, even i registered a complain then also i got no resolvement. Mobile browser is just basic thing to execute the how could i expect beyond.!! MI u r "Bowled" as in even 13K bucks this product didn't have external support!
1|At the launch Mr, Hugo Bara created hype. pls dont go such trap of Flipkart and company. 13000 is matter, better put 1-2 K more and buy other known brand product with low configuration , even better compare to them and long losting. Flipkart. 1. First Thing Flipkart is not having return policy for that, they just make you irritate when you try to tell them your problem. so decide only you wanted to throw away ur money at any case. 2. People from Flipkart call center think you are a fool, so they will give silly solutions , like restrat the phone, clear the cache etc. 3. Quality of flipkart product is deteriorate now a days. i had made many purchase recently but need to return. Phone mi4i 1. Basic Call feature is not up to mark , like sound quality, speaker quality, vibration etc. 2. Battery drains badly(even after update to 805 MB crap) 3-4 hrs in 3g and continue use, normal 7-8 hrs 3. Camera is not sync with flash, flash is so high even can damage your eyes, but picture still dark. 4.Heating problem at ear 5. Camera Is good in daylight, shit in night with flush 6. While call MIUI hangs 7. Camera lags, slows. 8. not a strong device, may break even fall from pocket good front Camera, and display. 9. terrible network issue, My idea and airtell both are facing network issue in this phone, earlier good with samsung trend. SO dont purchase if you want for call feature, buy if want to click pics in full lights. Its genuine review after 5 days use. i will revise review/rating once there is any update which improve above difficulties
1|Hi friends, In 2015 it was my worst decision to buy Chinese mobile. I always preferred branded phone, but I don't know some how why I buy this useless and senseless phone. I buy phone on 23 of may And reviewd. 1. battery backup not up to the mark I charge mi4i in a day at max 3 times. I have also samsung note 3 which battery work for a full day in 50% charge.note 3 battery is 3220 mah And 3120mah. 2. Camera is good for day time. But in case of room it is not working.image colors like Chinese phone. 3. 2gb ram is not up to the mark.it is working like 1 gb ram. Phone is slow and not working fast in heavy games. 4. Phone heating problem .mi4i phone heat up to 55'C during play any andriod game, you can easly made a egg omelette at phone. 5. Touch screen is not well. Some time touch not work. 6.you can get one thing super , that is mobile look.it is good. I think mi4i should take back all phones and first try to solve problems. Plz plz plz plz don't buy .increase your budget and get some branded phone. I try many request to solve the problem or refund my hard earning money.
1|I bought this Phone from the flash sale and certainly not happy with the day I received this phone with following reasons: 1. Whenever you dial any calls , the screen goes blank and then you can't do anything and not even you can disconnect the phone from your end, unless someone from the receiving end doesn't disconect the phone, your screen will not re-appear. The reason is because the screen guard is covering the proximity sensor which is causing this issue. Now tell me how can we use phone without a screen guard. Mi is offering free screen guard for its buyers , but its be around 10days since I placed my request for screen guard and haven't received it yet nor there is any tracking ID that was generated , so I have no idea how to track my request 2. Heating issues : Mi4i get heats up as soon as you keep the phone on charging and suppose you want to receive or make any phone calls, then you are helpless because your ear will suffer due to heating issue. Even if you use your phone for doing normal work like browsing internet then also phone heats up. Yesterday there was an update released by Xiaomi which they claim will fix the heating issue, but even though I have installed the update it hasn't fixed my issue. I have also placed a return request with Flipkart for this phone which is going on since 10days , but Flipkart customer service response is very bad and there are no followups from their end. My honest advice to anyone who is planning to buy this Phone will be that : "Please do not buy this phone and look out for some other better options"
1|Worst phone... don't buy my dear friends. If you speak 2 mins in the hot sun, the phone is getting over heated like anything. even you can't touch the phone for sometime. i spoke and update the same to the filpkart, they said that you need to go service center.
1|Please don't buy this phone Its most heated device i have seen t ill date, like a Iron box. And its causing problem connecting to google services and some websites. Camera doesn't wort out well sometime, works wieredly totally frustrated using this Requested for return 3 days back, flipkart execuitives not responding properly which is even more frustrating Don't buy this Sorry to say this, for the first time i am experiencing bad customer responses from Flipkart.
1|The worst ever phone I have purchased so far. I was duped by the display which is the only factor to be accepted. Please do not buy. The phone is heating so quick and even without playing games also. You can't even speak with the phone near by your ear. Your ear will burn out. My 13000 is gone with the wind. Please do not by. The registration is only to create an artificial demand. The reviews are paid and don't be fooled by them.
1|No doubt the phone is good and camera quality is really awesome BUT heating issue is there on calling. I have been using this phone from last 10 days and on call the battery temperature goes to 42 degree I feel like the phone going to blast at any time on calls. So I can say its just wastage of money.
1|Every thing is good expect heating problem and Nobody would like to have a phone which heats even on talking.
1|After clicking two images rear camera stop working. Rest phone is ok. But not getting proper support from flipkart even after many contacts my has not been replaced.
1|I have brought this phone on 30th April and received on 4th May. Phone is not at all worth of 13K. You can get better deal then this crap. Phone heats after charging, Touch screen is worst, Charges is having other issue. Overall product is waste. No quality checks are done by Xiaomi. Overall, I will suggest people to stay away from this product.
2|A fantastic and desirable phone... if not for the major disappointment. It heats at the ear piece - above the screen on the front side. That's the last place we want the heat as that hurts the very sensitive ear skin. It heats when charging and when used for browsing or some activity on the phone for abt 10 minutes. But it doesn't heat even during long calls. It is a shame for such a device we'd love to own. Slim, light, powerful, almost scratch proof, all around, great great screen, amazing battery, fantastic cameras... great call quality, beautiful and very very well thought of MIUI. My replacement phone too heats the same way. In fact, maybe a little more than the first one. End of the day, I cannot use this as a smart phone where I work on the phone and pickup a call while working as the ear piece area would be hot by then.
1|Unbearable heating and lagging in performance issue makes the phone worst in available. Playing games like Subway surfer for few minutes 2-3 makes the phone lag in its performance with heavy heating. Even I can't compare the performance of MI 4i from Micromax Canvas A1. It takes a huge time for charging while MI claims for fastest ever charging for this phone. From 2 to 36 % of charging It takes 2 hours. There is no comparison of iPhone 6 battery back up with this poor phone. RAM management is not good. Phone always uses 1.5 GB of RAM. Camera, UI, build quality is good.
1|I had placed order for Xiomi Mi4i mobile on Flipkart website and was delivered in record time of 4 days. I was so happy to receive the consignment well packed and looked forward to its usage immediately after having read the product information published on the Flipkart website. While the phone looks very cute and weighs very less, I tried the BSNL micro SIM card. The handset took a longtime to boot and ultimately I was thrilled to see the screen lit up brightly. While the connectivity tower glowed to the full I wanted to test for the Data connectivity. Alas, it was a big disappointment! The handset could not detect the 2G/3G signals despite my trying all sorts of adjustments in the Settings. Even tried the SIM of Airtel but no improvement at all as regards the Data connectivity. Occasionaly there was a flash of the 3G connectivity which disappeared as quickly as it appeared. I read the review of other purchasers and noted that they are also facing the same problem of non detection of 2G/3G signals by the handset. I wonder whether it will pick up 4G signals at all as I can do not intend to switch to 4G immediately. I have requested for replacement which Flipkart is yet to accept as they would like to discuss with me before accepting the replacement order. I wonder why we should go through all this ordeal of booking in advance and then wait for the countdown till 2pm only to be saddled latter with such useless handset. Will Flipkart arrange for immediate replacement as it is within their return policy?.
2|Mi4i a brilliant product and as claimed a flagship. Really reminds me of iphone instantly the moment you switch it and use it. All said and done , beautiful specs, light weight etc....the problem is you cant hold it for long. It heats tremendously. Big problem with the phone. You simply cant use it. So a dilemma, what to do ? You like to keep such a phone but you are not able to keep it. If these guys can make good this issue, its a fabulous phone to have and makes a statement.
1|I would rate it to 2.5/5 when compared from the overall aspects: Heat Issue: The backside of the gadzet goes for a toss while on Internet Connection via Mobile Data \ Wifi. Voice Recording: The recorded sound is quiet low when it comes to relisten the recorded Voice/ Interview. Camera: The precision is not scaled up to the mark on default parameters when it already has so high Camera lens capacity. Space \ Capacity: By default the new handset shows 10.5 GB Free space out of 16 GB which is quiet surprising when really checked in actuals.
2|Everything is great and near perfect but phone heats to extreme even in standby mode and while charging. Haven't installed any app but will review after using some games and apps.
1|Got my Mi4i this evening. Pros: Excellent responsive touch. Sharp and crisp images. Above par camera. Reasonably fast. Cons: No headset. Problems faced: Heating on the top, making it uncomfortable to ear. O/g calls do not get connected, and get dropped with a ping. Sometimes, call gets connected. No pattern was observed. My o/g success rate is less than 20%. Tried calling numbers in my home itself. If this continues, may have to return the phone. I/c calls issue is there. It says "phone switched off" even when the phone is on. In both cases, signal strength was showing FULL. Tried setting in 3G mode overriding default LTE mode, but to no avail. This can be verified from my call history, which I have not erased. I have chosen to return the mobile and ask for refund of money.
1|I can not think xiaomi will give such a poor glass quality. I got the mobile on 11th May. As n When i open the box mobile dropped from just 1ft height and display glass gone and lower panel touch not responding. I complained on flipkart as well as xiaomi customer care about this and they said we can not help, you have to go service centre to get repair at your on cost. Which type of gorilla grass is it that can break easily. When i called to service centre they said because this mobile is in new launch they have not accessory for this talk to again customer care even both dont know the cost of broken glass. I have seen apple, samsung, noika etc if glass broken some how than there whole touch panel work as earlier before broken. This is not single case. In my office 2 Mi3 mobile display also broken due to fall and touch gone out. And their screen repair cost is very high (Rs. 6000). If I am spending 13000 for Mi4i and i Got such a sensitive mobile than it is worst mobile. I strongly not suggest to purchase such a cheap mobile.
2|I get ONN the phone yesterday, it gets soo heat inside 2-3min , I get surprises & feared , I power off 1hours ,ONN then its heat is decreases little, I cant understand why such happens, How Xiomi has made such item for india.? Mr Hugo Barra says that Mi 4i is for India during the lunching , but such heating issue disappoints me or Indian Mi fans so much, Visual IVR I cant found. Camera is goood, RAM flows 1GB , only available 880-900Mb without instal any app. Mi 2 - runs its 65% RAM, Mi 4i even 2Gb but runs 110-120% ,with No apps installed -only 800mb RAM avails . Built is good, slim, average looks , I wants to solve the heating issue to my Mi 4i , and RAM fluids issues ,Camera ,MIUI 6 , other are manageable and good . updates showing 806Mb, i am not doing that. Dear flipkart /Xiomi Plz suggest me ,solve this or take the phone and refund my valuable money.
1|Mi4 I is below average smartphone battery has heating problem camera is worst display is ok don't buy this one
1|Good - 1. Slim phone, pretty handy Bad - 1. It doesn't look like 5 inch screen phone. looks like a cheap brother of redmi 2S 2. Back plastic is the worse and gives a damn cheap look to a phone 3. Camera - doesn't match up with any of 13mp standard. 4. No headphones - seriously xiomi wants us to pay more for buying it. 5. Have had the phone in my pocket for whole day. Missed calls too often. vibrator vibrates like nothing. 6. MIUI 6 is again fools play. Whats the point having android lollipop if you are restricted to customized MIUI 7. Top of it no screen guard. Display screen is easy to get rugged marks. 8. Heating like hot pan 9. Volume is like i am playing my tv on mute status. 10. Lag in overall performance
1|guys don't go by comments of Flipkart good phone ,beauty and all... worst phone ever. Keyboard Problem(Sometime you will not able to complete word) Heating Problem Google Play services problem Contact merge( worst functionality which will keep merging your friends and family number) total mixture, its your duty to recognize whose number is this Very poor sound many important Android applications are NOT Supported. even NOT able to update Phone. No service center, there are but for on show off. they will never answer your call. list will go on but this is in short...each functionality have bug inside PLZ PLZ ..don't waste your hard earned money.
1|I have four Xiaomi phones,Redmi 1S.Mi3(2phones),Mi4i in my family.Though Xiaomi phones are well built,but there is NO AFTER SALES SERVICE in most of the states.Though software problems are solved easily online,a minor hardware problem renders Xiaomi phone useless,as there is NO AFTER SALES SERVICE.Neither do they respond to repeated email requests for help.This makes XIAOMI phones DISPOSIBLE ITEMS.Think about this factor before opting for Xioami phones.After sales service is as an important factor to be considered for delicate articles like cell phones, which are very prone to accidental damages. Recently Xiaomi has tied up with Gujrat based company QARMATEK for after sale service under the name"Pick Mi service".Whether your phone is under or out of warranty,you have to pay Rs 189 as courier charges(fedex).When your phone reaches to Qarmatek,they call you and for all minor or major defects ask you to pay Rs 9000 minimum,for changing mother board.Even if your phone has a microphone,speaker,camera,or a SIM slot defect,they insist on mother borad replacements on the grounds that they dont have a machine to remove defective mike,speaker or SIM slot.This looks funny.For Rs 9000 you can purchase a brand new high end phone from any Indian compnay with after sale service center everywhere in the country.Just visit www.consumercomplaints.in and see it is flooded with complaints against Xiaomi and QARMATEK.Log into OLEX and see hundreds of Xioami users wishing to sell their brand new Xioami phones but getting no buyers.Take my opinion seriously.I have no bias against any one,but i have faced this problem and it is my social responsiblity to tell you about the consequences of purchasing a Xiaomi phone.
1|This phone is the worst ever phone made by Mi for India. Mi the cheap and worse company thinks that the Indians will use these type of cheap and bad phones.Shame on Mi. Phone heating like an hell (exceeds above 52c without using much) ,hanging a lot and restarts every 5-10 minutes . Flipkart , this is your your kind information as well that you are spoiling your name for the sake of this Mi Company. Creating Name & Fame is very difficult in today's world and you are easily spoiling your market for this stupid Mi Company. If possible , stop selling Mi phones or impose a heavy fine on Mi for this hell phones. Why Flipkart is spoiling there market for chinese company. MUST SAY THAT PLEASE DO NOT EVER BUY THIS PHONE .Mi making fool of India nothing else . Abolish Mi products in India
1|i recieved phone but it is only work in a single sim mode , its a dual sim phone after that phone ringing volume is extremely slow and phone lag some time after it has 2gb of ram not recomended phone
1|This is a very bad phone, friends if you are thinking of buying it do not buy. It heats up if you watch youtube. Leave alone heavy usage like gaming. Even after 20 minutes angry bird did not open. 70 % of RAM always occupied. If you look at the quality of pictures on mi website they are splendid, the pics taken from this phone does not even match 50% of the quality. Overall total disappointment. I don't know why such a good ecommerce people (flipcart) is selling this bad phone?
2|I have been a mi user for a long time i have used mi3 and redmi 2 and i was happy with there performance. so i ordered a mi4i. o think that this phone is very well built and feels good in hand. but this device has flaws as well so lets talk about pros and cons PROS: 1) Feels nice in hand 2) display is beautiful. CONS: 1) This device hangs a lot even on day to day use age i was able to hang this device. 2) If you are a gamer don't go with this as it drops a lot of frames and lags a lot even on leos fortune i noticed some lag. 3) using this phone outside your house is difficult as it tends to become really hot and becomes difficult to hold. even indoor this phone heats up a lot if you play games or do multitask during charging. 4) speaker output is not up to the mark for ME . ( but that's a personal choice.) ALL IN ALL I WONT SUGGEST THIS PHONE FOR BUYING. AT THIS TIME AND UNTIL THEY RESOLVE THE HEATING ISSUE AS IT BECOMES PAINFUL TO HOLD SOMETIMES NEAR THE CAMERA MODULE...
1|Phone gets heated up very much around the camera and the call speaker area just after slight usage. Good phone for the price except the heating issue, Camera is good not great, perfect size to handle. Best phone in this price, Xiaomi has to fix this heating issue.
1|I don't want to talk about any specifications or any product related info,. I just want to highlight the policy and qulaity standards of Flipkart and MI. I got the phone on very first flash sale and i am glad that i am happy to got that. Here the delivery was delayed. I didn't have any issues with that, i thght may due to heavy orders. First week: It's fanstatic no doubt at all about the product. Second week: Back button is not working properly. Third week: Battery is draining so fast. Fourth week: Front camera is not working properly. Performance lags (I am not talking hifi performance the basic functionality is lagging) The pathetic quality of MI and poor service of Flipkart makes my buy regret. Ya i know i have 1 year warranty and service center guys can deal with the issues. But its exactly a month old phone and why a new phone will suffers with that problems??? I called flipkart to replace, they said "its been more than a month so we can't replace it acc to our policy, come on dude its only 4 days more than 1 month, grow up i am not asking after 2 or 3 months later. Rules are meant to be broken. I know this is slightly exaggerating. But a person who spends 3 months of research on what to buy and spent 13k is to buy this cheap product...??? My first smartphone is also from flipkart (Nokia Lumia 520), for which i also got some issues and that they replaced, and i used for almost 2 years. But what lesson i learnt is the policy of flipkart sucks and the quality of MI is poor
2|No doubt this is a very good device in camera, speed, connectivity, screen resolution. Specially in this rate. But apart from this, this phone exist with heating problem and the features are quite different/difficult from other android phone. While applying any wallpaper the font color dont get change as per the background. In my phone there was a problem with alarm clock as well, snooze after 3 minutes after setting the time of 10 minutes and get silent after ringing twice. So please think twice before buying this phone.
2|I bought this Phone on 30 July 2015. After 2 Months only My Speaker Stopped working. I visited Xiaomi India Service Center at Vikas Marg to repair the same. Sorry to say that just to repair / replace a speaker which is in guarantee period they have asked me to come after 20 Day's to collect my Phone.. I dont know how i am going to manage my day to day work without a phone. A request, please think twice before you go for Xiaomi Phones. Regards, Louis M Dsouza
1|I used the product for a month pro 1.camera is good 2.slim 3.dual 4g cons 1.a lot software bugs 2.u will get 400mb free RAM in daily use 3.gets hang 4.pocket dail function has big issue Not worth to buy Go for Some Other
1|In reality Horrible and Cheap.No local Support from OEM. every two days the phone hangs. most of the corporate applications are not supported.Thanks to the customised OS. Use the phone for calling for 15 minutes: it heats up to an extent that the skin becomes red.
1|Please don't buy any Xiaomi phone in India, or get reqdy to buy a new one as soon as your phone starts creating problem. Going to an authorised service station is a waste of time and energy. Pathetic experience, if they find any manufacturing defect in the phone they will say that liquid has been found inside. This is what i realised when i went to deposit my phone to the service centre. 2 guys were already complaining about this and i was the third one. The spares cost of the phones is too high that any body will prefer buying a new one, Nice strategy by the company.
1|First of all, don't just choose a phone by going through the specs they offer. This phone has a Snapdragon 615 chipset, yes the one which has heating issues in many phones, and guess what, this phone has beaten all of them in the heating competition, Boom! The temperature may go upto 55 degree Centigrades while playing some games, which is uncomfortably hot to handle. Moreover even after browsing for about 15 mins, the phone starts heating. While playing games, the phone even lags sometimes, which was not expected from a phone with such specs. It has 2 gb ram, out of which you get less than 500 mb to use. The rest is all eaten by the heavy MIUI. The only things that I like about this phone are the camera and it's full HD display. Pros: 1. Full HD screen 2. Camera (Both 13 MP and 5 MP) 3. Light weight/ Slim/ Good looks Cons: 1. UI lags many times 2. Heating issues 3. Some applications crash sometimes 4. Low volume Instead, I would suggest you all to go with Moto G 3rd Gen. Although you get to see some low specs on paper, but believe me, Motorola is a great brand and it has optimized everything to make such a device which performs way better than this chinese product. It's lag free and has no heating issue at all. And at the same price tag, you even get expandable memory and water proof features which are something to be considered.
1|I brought mi4i mobile from flipkart. After 35 days mobile front camera got repaired. Mobile heating like iron box, if not using internet and games also. Then i given mobile to service center at chennai. Then they took long time to repair and service center response is very bad and they not even pick up the phone to confirm the repair. After getting repair of front camera, within two days rear cemera got repair. As of now, i have used many smart phones, but this is worst mobile in my life. My best advice is don't go for any xiaomi products.
1|Even after getting the replacement, the phone has not stopped giving issues like, charging is not happening if the battery level goes below 10% you have to switch it off and charge. sometimes the voice of the other person is not audible. touch doesn't respond at times, apps crash frequently. A definite no buy.
1|It's really a bad product from day 1 i am facing battery problem and how to replace it still i don't know why such products you are market ing i don't know really it's creating problem for me my friends told me not to purchase china item but i didn't listen now i am facing huge problem rating i will give 0 but option is not there
2|I'll be direct... performance is poor. Many Apps are lagging including "play store" and "facebook". Pros: Good display, Good battery, light weight, slim and good design Cons: Lags for most of the app, Heating up sometimes, Camera ok, Bad sensor response time, or you can say slow sensors, No headset. GPS is not accurate. Not for gamers.
1|I am big fan of Xiaomi and used Mi3 in past. My screen broke off so decided to upgrade to Mi4i. The day i received delivery applied all upgrades/patches. My usage is mostly limited to Google Maps, Calls and Whatsapp. Zero Gaming... After 4-5 days of usage i found phone started heating up when Google maps was running to the extent that i cannot talk. I thought it was just one time ...Then it happened again randomly.. BTW by now i had already invested 2000 in genuine Mi accessories... It started happening almost everyday on random mostly when i am travelling in car with AC ON. Lodged a complaint with Flipkart and then i started seeing the real colors of Indian e-commerce Flamboyant real colors. They refuse to accept the fact that it is heating and sent me one App..They called me and check temperature with App which was much less obviously as the phone was not heated up..They refuse to accept the return.. I am also extremely regular shopper with Flipkart however i never had to return anything , this is first time i had something to return and i was shocked they way they refused.. In fact recently i bought a laptop from paytm which was slow and hanging and they refunded my money without any questions asked. Needless to say i bought the next laptop again from PayTM itself.. Actually you get to know the real principles of any company when something goes wrong and Indian Poster boy has let me down here big time.. Never thought that Mister Bansal will try to cheat people on name of 30 days warranty.. I more disappointed with Flipkart than the Phone...I only wanted replacement with the piece with no defect.. Needless to say I will be bidding adieu to Flipkart..... You might want to wait this to happen with you and then bid adieu or can take this step proactively...
2|Though the phone has good features, my phone had a heating and subsequent power off issue which reflects on the overall quality of the phone. 4 times into the service centre and no resolution yet. understand that my phone has serious hardware and battery issues. Not a recommended phone for new buyers. There are better options.
2|This phone has lot of expectation before launching when i purchase this phone i was not happy as heating problem & rates are worth
1|i bought this phone yesterday for my friend , it has started heating like anything .. cant even place calls or do hold the phone for a long time pathetic service and hardware is too bad if this heats up a lot !!!! even after update the phone doesnt stop itself from heating up , although i have applied for a return !! i dont know about other reviews people are making .. but in my case it heats up like i will not recommend it to any one !!
1|I bought the Mi4i 16 gb grey mobile from flipkart, trust me its useless. dont but this mobile phone. After paying 13,000 there are not 1 or 2 issues with the mobile but plenty. Following are the problems - 1.After inserting micro sim, it still show - NO SIMCARD 2. It take more than 15 - 20 mins for mobile phone to get switched on / off. 3. Music cant be played - It shows - Can't be played 4. The phone is hanging a lot. Flipkart technical team will call only once in a day as its a system generated schedule. they will again call me tomo , which i have to wait!! BLUNTLY NO TO MI4I MOBILE PHONE !!!! Flipkart asking for user rating - it must be negative, but they dont have.
1|I would advise you to stay as far away as possible from this crappy phone. I had purchased it as a gift for someone and when I was able to give it to the person ( had been sitting sealed for 1 month hence return option expired). The screen had a black Patch. I visited a Service Center in Defense colony, Delhi only to be told that they only provide software support and no hardware support. How outrageous is that? completely shitty after sales network, so if you trust your stars that you wont get a buggy one, go for it, but if you want a safer investment, do not buy this.
1|Worst Battery ever even in standby mode the battery drains within 8hrs. Second Sim card is getting undetected automatically, frequent unexpected restarts, Even I complained 2 times in Flipkart within 1 week of the purchase but there executives were not responding properly and now they're saying that 30 days are over so they can't do anything.
2|very good look and good feel while handling the phone,430 ppi display is very good,rear camera is very clear but the problem with the phone the Mi interface not user friendly, worst part of the phone is very bad service support and customer support and net work connectivity. Within weeks time I have replaced the mi4i rfor bad network connectivity, and second one is also having the same problem,even connected to airtel 4g and bsnl broad band the signal strength will be in 0.1-1Kbs. No response from Xiomi/mi customer centre. I had tough time with Flipcart customer care to get the replacement and found same problem with the second phone also.No answer from mi customer care centre, I don't know how to solve this . I suggest please think twice/thrice before buying this phone.
1|Camera and display is good. processing is slow, , not user friendly quality.things are not good.i not expect this feature/quality.
1|dont buy any mi product. they are made up of cheap quality materials. i have purchased this cell 2 months ago. last week cell is not getting charged i went to service center they have cahrging card. agian after 5 days of use i have got the same problem. and now i am going to service center. if you want to go to center like me please go ahead buy these dam waste mi products.
2|The look and feel of the device is great, camera and picture quality is inferior to none. The sunlight visibility feature is excellent no problem in operating the device in bright sunlight. I found no lags in normal usage. However, in terms of performance specially i rate it as poor the device is heating like anything, battery drain is enormous not lasting even 6 hours even without any battery draining applications like games etc. Also the proximity sensor has some issue, i experience the call quality is below average, not sure whether it is due to operator or phone. Just on the second of my purchase I heard a very loud and cracking noise from the speakers during live call in speaker mode. Though i must admit, i did not get again I requested for return, i found unusual flip-flop approach from flipkart side. There service engineers are trying to get in touch with me since last three days. I have already stopped using this phone and switched back to my old phone as i fear batteries may not last during critical phone calls.
1|I bought 2 of these phone during sale. I thought nothing can beat this configuration and all app will work great, But reality is far from it. The customized OS sucks. The battery discharges within 6-7 hours even on very low usage. Many regular apps hangs. Even the dialer hangs a lot. Most of the time only 250 MB of 2GB is left, even though I don't use many games or power apps much. The worst thing is happening now. The phone is not even charging and this is just within 10-15 days of usage (I did not use it for long after the purchase, I was supposed to give it as a gift to family). I have checked there is nothing wrong with the charger. Something is wrong with phone itself Now I have to contact Xiomi service center. I don't know how much they will help. My advice would be don't go for this phone it only promises to be good but it is simply waste of money.
1|Lots of issues... 1. Heats up within 5 mins of continuous use. 2. Applications close automatically (FB, Whatsapp, etc) 3. Internet gets disconnected by itself Looks like this phone has full control on itself and doesn't let User to use it Now, Flipkart return policy another disappointment, they ask us to use app for them to check the problem itself is that Internet doesn't connect properly (both Wifi and mobile internet). Guys, if you want an intelligent phone which runs on its own without user's will, this is the one to go for. Wish I could give less than 1 star for both Mi4i and Flipkart's service.
1|i blindly purchased this fone after reading its wonderful reviews. no doubt this is a flagship phone in this price range. The Display is very sharp and colours are also very bright and deep but at the end of the screen near the back home keys there is a problem and that can only be pointed out in a completely black background. also there is a leak of light due to improper assembling of the display panel. i wish fp could replace my phone but i knw they wont. low volume in external speaker and headphones is another drawback. no slot for memory card. 16 gb internal memory is very less keeping todays needs in mind.
1|Pls do not buy this mi4i as this phone has a very serious bug that it is not showing the miss call alert. Mi has excepted that it is a bug but they are not sure that when this can be resolved. Miss call alert is very basic stuff but mi4i dosent shows the miss call & every time you have to go to call log to find if there are any m.call and in log also it shows as a rejected call although you have not cut the incoming call. There is a battery heating issue as well. Battery got heated after few minute use. Do not bye this china phone, it is working like purely china items.
1|With all your sanity, please do not go for this phone. Put all the exceptional specs tagged with this phone aside now. The phone heats up too much. The plastic sealed slim body doesn't allow the heat to dissipate properly. For 2 GB RAM 1.7 GHz octa core processor, this Phone works very slow. Even the battery drains up in less than 24 Hrs (Normal Usage). And the speakers are the worst I have used so far. Loud speakers are as good as no speakers. Even if this was not enough now the charging pin doesn't work. Unable to charge my phone now all micro USB pins tried. Xiaomis flagship phone MI3 was much better than this.
1|I brought the mi4i expecting the same class of build, quality and performance from the earlier xiaomi products like the mi4 and mi3,. I also have an MI3 which I feel up to now provided the best for the buck. But alas what a disappointment mi4i turned out to be. Within a month and a half the display went dead , took it to Mi exclusive service centre and was told there are issues with the motherboard and the battery, I now have to wait for 3 weeks before I can have it back fixed hopefully. The major issues were :- * Heating, the phone heats up while doing normal tasks web browsing , calls beyond a certain time, and not the least the games , playing them for extended period makes it seriously hot. The issue could lie with the Qualcomm chipset but it is Xiaomi who have designed the phone. * Sound Quality : The placement of the speaker is is on the bottom of the rear side , so you have to make keep the rear side up in order for the phone to be audible . The quality from the speaker is unacceptable there is a lot of distortion in the sound , you can compare the quality of sound by playing the default ringtones from any of the other Xiaomi products, they sound sweet. * Sound levels: The volume levels for both the headphones and speaker are pretty low compared to the other phones within the Xiaomi portfolio and other brands it looks like the programmer forgot to program the correct gain for the operational amplifiers, can be easily fixed via updates. * Battery: My phone drained the battery even while browsing via WIFI. My Mi3 needs recharge ever 1.5 days , but mi4i requires it every day in the balanced power mode. Mi3/4 runs on 2.5Ghz processors which consumes much more power, with the same usage pattern. Results on the ground are different from what Xiaomi claims. * Screen: The attracts more fingerprints , then the rest of the Mi models. If you have oily skin prepare to put a screen protector. * Slow Slow Slow, for the specs it has the phone is slow, takes a couple of seconds to open up mail WOW, scrolling is jerky even the lower models of MI scroll much smoother and open up applications much faster. All the benchmarks are useless and have no meaning unless you have good UI experience with the phone. The positives :- * Good build quality and the screen colors. I feel Xiaomi engineered this phone in a hurry to fill in the 10-15,000 Rs range and hence have compromised on the engineering and the QA. Maybe I was unlucky and got a lemon but then it is a QA issue.
1|I am recived the phone 9th june 2015 for Mi4i, some technical problem, i can't recived the phone bcoz phone is very heating.when the finish the call that time phone is not switch off, so i can return this phone, i am not happy this product quality also not good.
2|i hv been using dis product since 1st of june n i hv faced major problm regarding network issues...its vry vry poor.n sound also not good.other things r awesm.
1|i paid 30 rupees for gift wrap but there is no gift wrap waste of 30 rupees and i wiill advice dont waste that money
1|battery of this phone is getting worst day by day.. in just normal use battery drains within 15 hours. and also phone gets restart sometimes... last update of 6.5.5.0 has increased the battery problem... i have put a replacement rquest to flipkart. bt they have not been proved themselves as good customer friendly these days...
2|Bought this phone in the 1st sale writing this review after 1 month of use. The phone really is a worth for its money. Ui is good and smooth apart from some lags here and there in animation. The snapdragon 615 processor is decent if you use only productive apps (like Facebook , whatsapp , viber and other common apps). If you are a gamer type then this is not the phone you should be buying. Xiomi guys show asphalt 8 running on this device which is a trap as it runs with many frame losses and gaming experience is very bad. Coming to the build quality its bad as after 20 days my front camera stopped working. Thanks to flipkart i got a replacement in 3 days. The new phone which i got was defective too. The display screens light is leaking from the edge of my phone and when tapped gently near the rear camera you can hear a sound of some vibrating spring. These problems which i am facing is common to many users and miui forum is filled with people facing same issues. I have again asked flipkart for a replacement. So if you are buying this phone to use only for a year buy it because i doubt it will hardly run after a year. Apart from some defects in build quality the phone is awesome in look and feel.
1|the battery spec mentioned on the website and on the actual product delivered are different website spec of battery is 3120mAh product delivered with 3030mAh
1|I have seen the reviews and by mistake taken wrong decision and paying for all this heating headache.I suggest every one not to buy this phone and buy problem with your hard earned money.take a wise decision before you buy this phone.Flipkart delivers fast ,but quality of the product is big question mark here
2|Biggest Flaw is placing speakers towards back of the mobile .. you can't even hear ringtone at all .. trust me even if you are 2-3 feet distance you can't even hear the tone .. if you are in sleepy condition forget about call .. unless you have to place the phone reversely For god sake who want to place their phone reversely on table and use it O.o even though reverse usage sound is very low .. Screen is pretty good since it is sharp provider i dont need to talk about it .. one of the best screen available phone is handy and feels pro .. but as others says heat issue .. it might solve by updates or not .. m' not sure about it .. please make a perfect phone and add smart features to it .. don't do such silly mistakes mi please ..
1|This is extremely buggy, (Gave 2 stars for overall looks) Dual 4G are wasted here, MI4I phone is not enough to capable to switch different speed E > H > H+ > 4G, its just simply failed to connect network. (It just works for first 20 Sec while switching speed mode manually or reboot). Believe me friends its damn damn frustrating, especially when you need internet and its not connect at all. Pocket dial prevention mode, waste feature I can say, many times it's just dial here and there. Phone Heat, Phone heating is very high on performance mode. PS:- I've updated my phone twice in last 1 week and currently using MIUI V6.5.5.0 (LXIMICD) PSS:- I've already check with Airtel on the connectivity issue, the airtel engineer came at premises and check signal strength no issue was reported on signal its just phone is having issue.
1|Full heating issue for any usage , this is after new update , not worth if heating issue is not resolved , and miui also not working some times
2|Im rewriting the review, After my concall with Flipkart about the issues that i faced, they didn't follow up on return policy or moneyback. In fact my complaint was called off internally without my consent. I believe I cannot continue with Flipkart, As its seeming very difficult when it comes to issues of product. If you are good to them, they are happy, minute you raise any issues, your are the villain. Pros : within budget, Lightweight, Cons : Battery Heat while updates, Use memory Usage by the system, Not more then 2 app multi tasking Display Blank once a day, Doesn't perfom like smart phone. have to restart the phone. Not suitable for gaming Battery Heats up like hell. Return Policy / Money Back Policy is NOT WORKING
1|ON THE THIRD DAY OF PURCHASE "SETTING" OPTION NOT RESPONDING. MUST SAY CAMERA AND ALL IMPRESSIVE...BUT WE ARE NOT PURCHASING PHONE FOR TAKING PICTURES WHOLE DAY. TOUCH IS HANGING SEVERAL TIME .....POOR PERFORMANCE WHILE MULTITASKING. I DONT KNOW WHY FLIPKART IS PROMOTING SUCH PRODUCT DAY AND NIGHT. OK I GET CARRIED AWAY BY PROMOTION BUT FINALLY RETURNING.. LET'S SEE HOW TEAM WILL SUPPORT NOW. EVEN FLIP KART IS NOT GIVING OPTION OF MONEY BACK..ONLY REPLACEMENT...DON'T CARRY AWAY BY ADVERTISEMENTS
1|IT HEAT UP TOO MUCH , AND AFTER UPDATING STILL ISSUE NOT RESOLVED. SPEAKER AND PHONE VOLUME IS VERY LOW CAN'T EVEN HEAR RINGTONE IN PUBLIC PLACES, AND CAMERA QUALITY IS VERY WEAK. TOO MUCH OF GRAINING USING CAMERA.
1|1-I bought this phone on 14th may sale and they offered me expected arrival on 20th may but it delivered to me on 16th may. 2- I though this is a best phone I bought but after 3 days using this phone I can not here any song. when I am trying to play video or game or music after 5 or 10 seconds the volume automatically down ( volume is still on high level 15 but problem is same) even I can not here when I plug it on speaker or headphone. and heating problem makes me mad. I don't know what to do but all I can say that I heard about this company a lot (MI) but after using there device it is not a good company after all Chinese products are Chinese . We can not aspect more from them... Now I want my money back or please replace my phone.
2|Hi, I got delivery on this phone on 18 May 15. I updated the device to Latest (MIUI 6.5.4.0) before use. Pros : - Very sharp & crisp display (ultimate experience) - Dual band wifi - Sleek Body - nice looks - Good front & back camera Cons : - Heating issue - The device is a heater. The fault is in design only. The phone is so tightly packed that their is no space for heat to go out. Phone heats up high in just 2 minutes of normal use only. You cannot put it on ur ear. - Loudspeaker - Loudspeaker fades out and volume goes down automatically and you cannot increase it. Overall a phone is meant for calls and if u can't speak properly then all its features are of no use. No not a good buy for general use.
2|phone is good but ..its too much un bearable heating issue ..that i am still other fone for calling..afraid of its heating..doesnt make it great....and in my fone..there is a charging problem...after 7 days itself it stopped to charge.... i asked for return a suggestion to flipkart..plz before selling any product....use ur self atleast for one month...its a matter of ur trust... i am not happy with this fone
2|It's my first MI phone , but not found a batter option. I was very exited about the phone but the looking and feel of the phone is like a cheap plastic Phone. I am not at all feeling speed of 2 GB RAM. Icons and the display seems similar to Redmi-2. In short if you are willing to spend 13000 , chose some other option.
1|Touch---- fine Processing--- fine Camera---- not even compete with 5MP Heating is an issue Sound quality... very poor Even Headphone not provided Flipkart must confirm the quality of the product before they selling new products, i m totally disappointed with this. should have option to give negative rative in flipkart - Very disappointed
1|Plastic waste with lags in performance and also heats when boots, charges and usage of apps . Camera with low light extreme horror and service too pathetic. Lot of better options with this price range and do not waste money.
1|HEATING LIKE ANYTHING JUST ONLY IN TALKING. CAMERA IS FINE BUT I HAVE NOT PURCHASED A CAMERA I HAVE PURCHASE A SMARTPHONE BUT ITS LOOKING LIKE I HAVE PURCHASED A HEATING FILAMENT.
1|1.Camera is not good. 2.Phone is getting heated. 3.Unalbe to view Free or used ram memory. 4.Unable to view some full videos and disturbance of pop up of settings page. 5.No expandable memory. I am completely Unhappy with camera and its 13000 cost worth features . Mobile cost is too high with less features.
1|The phone heats up a lot while on use and also while on charge. There is a minute electric shock near the camera while charging. Now after just two weeks the touch isn't working.
1|heating heating heating heating This is not a phone of this worth. heating hanging all are there. NO REFUND POLICY.
2|I wright after 3 day use of Mi 4i phone good one is nice looking and handy problem is 1.Net connection, 2.Heating problem, 3.Audio is not good, 4.Require frequent reboot. I sending requiest to flipkar, I hope flipkart may sole regarding my problem.
1|MY phone hangs in every 2-3 hours even i can not attend the calls, where is 2gb ram 64bit 2nd gen octa core processor MiUi 6 is very heavy userinterface it gives nice feeling but verry laggy sometime my phone's soft button doesn't. Work properly and this phone heats a lot!!! What is this same on you xiaomi!!!!! you can make fool not good phones
2|Hardware is good but of course a copy of iphone 5c. But software MIUI is the most crappy software, Apps crashing for no reason phone reboots automatically sometimes that too for no reason some times apps won't work, you either need to restart or factory reset some times phone consumes always 1GB of RAM with no apps running in background where as iphone runs on 1GB of RAM If you play games the phones heats up very fast. Xiaomi has made big fool out of us saying Mi4i comes with Lollipop, even after uprading to 6.5.3 i don't find not even a single goodie from Lollipop like project volta(battery saver),no buttery smooth frame rates,no material design, no encryption and many others. If Xiaomi wants to expand to international market they should better concentrate on their quality of software and updates, they should learn a lot from cyanogen in this regard.
2|Camera is below Average, Rear is too cheap Display and Battery is good, but Cant compensate other flaws. Better to have Samsung Galaxy S4, which is now @16,499/-
2|I have gifted "Mi4i" to someone and for the first time in my gifting history this gift has embarrassed me by coming back to me with the name of a "BOILER". It is a good quality, compact, very well build and HD screen boiler, which you can bring anywhere with you to heat the water and your pocket. If MI/Xiaomi people are reading this comment then it is a request to resolve this issue as soon as possible and convert this BOILER into a SMARTPHONE.
1|After spending money and waiting for flash sale with great enthusiasm you buy what to have it a duck. Pros : Elegant design, Light Weight. Cons: Heats up quickly without any activity, battery drain fast, Not all good camera compare to other xiaomi phones. Memory is very one fourth of the space is covered by MIUI updates. sound quality is poor. You have to be in lonely place to hear the sound. Its an advice please dont buy it because spending money on this phone is not worth.
1|flipkart is best in replacement policy as i purchased last phones but HIGHLY DISAPPOINTED for WORST SERVICES in flipkart I am giving review after 10 day uses and update (Aprox 1 GB) Heating issue not solved after update, This phone is only for normal user (Camera and Looking), This phone is very heated for 1 ) Game lover 2 ) Calling duration is more than 15 min 3 ) If you use phone in day light
2|too be frank Company have to provide headphones with it which is missing part in the box OVERALL HEATING ISSUE WITH THIS HANDSET YOU ARE UNABLE TO USE IT WITH IN CHARGING YOU HAVE TO WAIT FOR 5-10 MIN FOR COOL IT THEN USE
2|Brought in the first flash sale..here are my observations after few days of heavy usage: Pros: 1) Excellent display - certainly the best 1080p display I have seen south of 20k! 2) Solid config at 13K - configuration wise a very good value for money. 3) Excellent selfie camera 4) Good build quality, excellent feel in the hand - lightweight poly-carbonate body. Seems, it can withstand a couple of drops before giving away. 5) Good standby time. Overall, battery life is satisfactory. Cons: 1) Heat: Lot of people complained about the heating issue, and certainly that is a problem. Heats quite a bit even with non-intensive usage (certainly, heating during 3d gaming is acceptable, but during talking with 3G off - thats a bit problematic) 2) WiFi Signal: Weak, very weak. Drops completely at same place where other phones show 60-70% signal 3) Low Speaker phone volume - terribly low sounding speakers. Sure to miss out on ringing when outside 4) Similarly, sound over headphones (tried multiple), the volume is pretty low and also, audio quality seems to be mediocre 5) MIUI - not a very big fan 6) 10-11GB usable space - that is a constraint. Xiaomi could have provided atleast 32 GB storage. 7) Noticed some bugs, like sometimes heard my own voice through earpiece. Didnt happened frequently, but still a matter of concern 8) Poor primary camera - images looks ok on the phone, but when viewed on a computer, they look smudged. Especially, pics taken indoors. Difficult to believe that its some Sony sensor taking these pics (as claimed by Xiaomi) Overall, perhaps a good buy under 14K, but it has its own set of problems/compromises. Personally, I am not very satisfied or rather not very happy with the purchase. I mean, I would have preferred spending few bucks more to get some other brands even if specs would have been inferior rather than getting Mi 4i...
1|Mi-4i battery doesn't even lasts for 6 hours that to in standby!!! On the very first day i charged to 100% and after using it for just 1 hour of data, and 20 mins of call, the battery was only 21%!!!! 2 hours after the battery just died. I seriously doubt whether mi has placed a 3120 mAh battery inside this. I have been using Redmi note 3G for more than 3 months now and compared to that its worthless when it comes to battery!!!
1|After 7th day, my mobile fell from my pocket unfortunately . The screen is broken and touch is not working Mobile is not good quality which they shown in flag ship video which mean they saying it the tested the product. I have used many android mobile but this Mi 4i is complete crap phone even a small drop this mobile will not handle. Please don't buy it. It not a good quality. Get's heated, not good hardware, Cheap bad quality screen (Not gorilla) very bad flag ship product from Xiaomi. Service center in chennai heactic always 40 people are present so this mean every one mobile have some defect. we are buying it in flash sale without understanding the real issue in mobile. Before buying it please visit Mi service center in your locality and U will find people coming to service center are more. As per the heading it clear that - Product is good in hardware design and speed. Screen quality. But it has issue in heating while charging mostly all the time after 3 days of usage can't able make call as there is complete heat present so making call will burn our ears mostly. Its not good. While using 2g more time mobile not get heated but in 3g it get heated within 20 mins of usage only in facebook none other apps. Few apps get crashed while opening not sure will there be any bug fixes from MI. Over all HEATING issue which will be make you think before buying this. As myself thinked same way and now have this mi 4i in my hand. its very slipery in hand need a hard case to hold it.apart this is ok. Screen is wow. smooth moving between apps no lag. keeping mobile ideal not much battery drained only little . ?Hardly mobile gave 12 hours in 2g with few games and 2 hours call. if 3g is on then Heat is on. Mobile took 3hours to 100% charge from 4%. Multiple apps running background also made the mobile get heated. I hope my review will be helpful.
2|The heating issue is real, especially during call receiving and you can feel on your ears. Battery drains out fast, battery saver mode not very efficient Volume and speaker is very ordinary, phone has lag issue. Overall not recommended for power-users. Screen is good but other things are a let down.
1|Pls do not buy this shitt.. its total waste of money Save your money its not worth for 4000 rs also .. Lots of Heating issue found during rebooting & surfing internet The device Heats for games like subway surfer and candy crush Battery also drops a lot even after disabling unwanted apps with reduced brightness Performance also Lags while switching between different apps it some time gets rebooted automatically Its a best Heating device made by Xiaomi. The call quality is nice display quality is clear camera quality is also nice again while taking snaps it heats up a lot.. so over all It is a rubbish device which xiaomi has manufactured.. i have requested flipkart for refund of my money xiaomi should not make false quotes .. first test your device then introduce it to the market .. 18 months of research for this shit is total waste if you make such device
1|I was using flipkart from 2011, in happy case everything is fine, but when there is a issue with any purchase then the actual color of flipkart comes into picture. I ordered MI4i Grey colour device under diwali discount sale and received product on 16th Nov, I just turned it on... Touch screen not working. Unable to power off or set-up the phone. I called flipkart for return and replacement of product, They first told as i bought in discounted sale it is not possible to replace the product then later they told stock is not there and not possible to replace. My questions are 1. If you are providing 30 days replacement warranty to the buyers why didn't you keep some devices to handle returns and replacements. Instead you sold all devices without keeping in mind that you need to provide replacement of device if any issues with the sold devices. 2. So this is intentional act " 30 days replacement" is just a gimmick as you never keep some back up to handle replacements. 3. But I saw in filpkart MI4I available with different colour, I asked them that I am OK if they replace different colour to me, but they denied. Will this happen in any retail shop in India? under warranty if exact colour device is not there any retail shop will provide different colour product with the same price. i have got HP printer and Gigabyte mother board replaced with upgraded products under warranty when the same model is not there. So what does this mean .... flipkart ? what is your replacement warranty exactly ? 4. when he denied to replace different colour MI4I, I got a doubt that he is selling Refurbished or defective products in discount sale like Diwali. Or else what's the point in not to replace with different colour phone of same type. In diwali the Phone price is 9999 now it is 12999 . So I am sure that he sold refurbished product under diwali sale that's why he is denying to replace with same MI4i. Flipkart, give proper information to customers when running discount sales like you wont replace the product if customer buy in discounted sale.......
1|Dear Sachin Bansal, Binny Bansal & So Called Customer Care (?) FlipKart Team, Order ID : OD104182073032105001 Order ID : OD404376776005558001 Product : Mi4i This is not at all customer centric approach. I have already explained the entire situation over & over to all of your executives and floor managers. And Moreover I want to tell you this is the SECOND time the same thing happening with me. First of all, why do you provide exchange offers if you are not able to fulfill it. If it was the courier constraints, then that wasnt my problem and also I have told you repeatedly that the order was not cancelled from my end. If its cancelled due to courier constraints then its definitely and completely your fault for which I had to suffer for. And now on top of that you are saying I wont get the same deal for which I had spent time and put the order. Also as suggested by you, I again placed the order on 4th November, and this time I just got 1 call from the Courier guy whom I had specifically told to deliver the same to me on Monday (16th November) and again the order got cancelled. If I have paid my entire money before the products delivery then with whose permission is the order getting cancelled?????????? I am really not at all satisfied by the way you are handling the your customers. I am also listing down the inconveniences caused to me because of you services. 1) First of all we wait for the Big Billion day Sale, so that I could utilize the benefits. 2) It was a gift for my wife which I was not able to make it. 3) The date given for delivery for 02 Nov 2015 that is a weekday and so it was supposed to get delivered on my office address. 4) I got a call from courier guy on Saturday, in which I feel the person himself was not intending to give me my courier. Even after telling him to contact me back on Monday he again made a call on Sunday, where literally the courier executive was forcing us to cancel the order. But same I said earlier, I did not tell him to cancel whereas asked him to deliver the same on Monday. Its my strong belief that the guy wasnt willing to give me the product, I dont know the reason. I want you to please listen to the recordings of the courier person done to me. I hope you keep a track of that. 5) Also, as the offer was available only on SBI ATM cards, I had borrowed the same from one of my distant relatives and after the order was placed I also paid him the money in cash, which now I dont know how to ask him back. 6) I also ordered a Mobile case cover for MI4, which I have already received. I dont know what use it is now, I also want to return the cover. 7) Now after all of this, I again placed the order and am seriously very much dissatisfied in the way our orders are being handled. 8) And also, why every time my MI4 order is only being cancelled. With whose permissions are these orders being cancelled?????? If I have paid complete money for my product before its delivery, then without my permission how this products gets cancelled. Also I am worried as how come all orders gets cancelled at 11PM at night and not during the day time. 9) I have several others items in my list which also I wasnt able to take as I was out of town for Diwali vacations, then why these items did not get cancelled and only MI4 gets cancelled. I dont find all this user friendly. I would like to tell you, all the things or the solutions your executives are giving on the call are not that easy from a customer point of view. I also had some emotions attached to the gift. I dont know whether flipkart is really concerned about its customer. Also, please stop answering the queries in 24 hours clock system, as your customer care takes almost 23 hours to reply and that also is not of the customer benefit.
2|From day one I am facing the heating issue. It heats excessively, you'll feel like that your ear is on fire. It's design, UI and battery all are good but it heats sooo much that you can iron your shirt. I have contacted flipkart customer support for the return of product, but they tested the battery and said that phone is fine. Dear Mr Sachin Bansal, the phone heats excessively and I don't want a heater in my pocket all the time, I live in Mumbai not Ladakh. Mr Bansal please take back the phone and return my money so that I can purchase a better phone. Kindly do the needful.
1|I have purchased mi4i from flipkart in last month. I am facing many issues regularly. Issues are different with time. Every time I have to do switch off the phone and once factory reset done suggested by flipkart. Hence Please avoid to purchase this model. Flipkart also not supporting customers. Hence think before purchase mi4i.
1|FRIENDS I ORDERED MI4I MOBILE ON 18 June, 2015 AND ONCE I STARTED USING THE MOBILE IT WAS GETTING HEATED UP TOO MUCH SO THAT I M UNABLE TO KEEP THE PHONE OVER MY EAR AND SPEAK, IMMEDIATELY CALLED FLIPKART CUSTOMER CARE AND ASKED FOR REPLACEMENT. THEY REFUSED AS THEY SAID ITS NORMAL FOR A SMART PHONE TO GET HEATED UP UP TO 40 DEGREE. AS IT WAS NOT GETTING SOLVED I STRUGGLED WITH FLIP KART AND MANAGED TO RETURN THE PHONE ON 4 TH AUGUST, BUT TILL NOW I HAVEN'T RECEIVED THE RETURN / REFUND FOR PAST 3 MONTHS. SO FRIENDS BEWARE OF FLIPKART SERVICE AND DON'T GET CHEATED BY THEM
1|Dont trust flipkart on their 30 days return policy. they will do everything for not return their product. the screen is fluctuating on 3rd day, when i format my cell it continue fluctuating. and after some time it work fine again after 1 day it screen started fluctuating. when i initiated return from flipkart they told that phone is currently working fine. so no problem with phone
1|HORRIBLE EXPERIENCE FROM LAST 2 TIMES. PLEASE FOR GOD SAKE READ EACH AND EVERY LINE BEFORE PLACING ORDER ONLINE OR YOU WILL LAND IN TROUBLE. CONTACTS DISAPPEAR...DEVICE HEATS ON RESTORE...NO MEMORY CARD OPTION.!! very unsatisfactory.
1|Tried reaching service center situated at malad for 2 days, they don't pick up the phone. Finally got in touch with Vashi service center. They said they dont keep spare parts and it will take 15-20 days for repair. This is ridiculous and not expected from product like MI
1|I bought the product on June 2015 got it replaced due to speaker problem. The replaced one now has a display problem. The display stopped working suddenly. Nothing can be done with the phone now. I now need to search for a service centre. If you are free and have lot time you can buy such phones and go behind service centres. I suggest users strongly not to buy the product. I have been a Fan of MI products but with the present experience learnt it the hard way.
1|As usual flip-kart delivery was on dot.Received on the 2nd of of ordering.. the phone look styling and less weight.display was wow! camera was good.... but all these sucks..The phone gets heated drastically even when u speak for 2 to 3 mins. believe that u will get a conscious that the phone going the bust in the ear.. pls dont go for this....i will be happy if i get my money back..........! this a small slim and sleekly micro oven.................i will be happy if flipkart give me option to change other phones...
2|I have purchased this mobile on june12, looks wise its nice and impressed..too. coming to functioning 2nd i found Blue tooth connectivity issue, requested flipkart they have taken replacement request and delivered the new device. next i found speaker issue raised concern to flipkart they told me to go service center to get approval but i fought with them i can not go its not my responsibility finally after long fight with different executives they have taken replacement of device. i got new device with in 4days of request, but fortunately again i got the same speaker issue. requested customer officer and they did smart check app found issue and took the retun request. finally i wasted 40days of my valuable time. and need to call every time executives which embarrassing us.
1|My experience wih Flipkart has downgraded a lot with my LAST (I mean it) shopping done on Flipkart for a mobile phone. Flipkart has pathetic return policy and worst customer service. Order ID - OD203370763893462300 I placed the order few days back and it was delivered on 17-Jul. I started using the phone on 18-Jul and realized that the phone is overheating within 5 mins of normal usage, getting hanged ans sometimes not able to place the call. I called up your helpdesk on 19-Jul to get the return / refund initiated and I was told that the mobile phones can be returned / refunded and a technician would be checking it remotely. (Well, your return policy nowhere mentions about all this. You need to update it asap & stop fooling the customers). I was told that I will get a call at 4.30 pm on 20-Jul. I told the person that I wont be able to take any call till 5 pm and he can get it recheduled accordngly. His reply meant 'I dont care'. On 20-Jul, I got the call and I managed to pick it up but your technician on the other side was speaking to somebody else. I was yelling 'Hello, Hello' but he disconnected the phone. Pathetic bahaviour again. I got a SMS that I would get a call at 1.30 pm on 21-Jul. On 21-Jul, I got the call. The person introduced himself (as he was calling from Australia) and asked him abt the problem. When I explained the problem, he put himself on mute and then in few seconds, he unmuted and said 'Thanks. Bye'. This was very strange, pathetic and irritating. I got a SMS that I would get a call at 10.30 am on 22-Jul. I wrote an email to your customer care that I wont be able to pick up the call at this time on 22-Jul and his response was that your issue will be resolved by 10.30 am on 22-Jul. This is the worst piece of customer service I have seen. First of all, you are selling faulty products and on return requests, you are fooling the customers and irritating them. This is my LAST shopping experience with you. They say 'To grow any business, you need to retain your old customers' But FLiokart has become so proud of their popularity in India that they have stopped using the word 'Customer Service' and taken the attitude 'We dont care abt the customers' For my phone - As per the retun policy, Get the return processed, pick up the phone and refund the money.
1|I have purchased this phone from flipcart on 23 june 2015 got deliverd on 28 june 2015. But since day one mobile front camera is not working. even returne case register with flipcart .soclaimed by flipcart's buyer protection & 30 days returned policy it's all blunder & bluff. till today flipcart product specialist is trying to call but he don't have no to reache out to me. it's sincer request don't by any Mi phones from flipcart as this people making us fool by delivering faulty phones to match target. then when u call them they will simply gives appology mails which they don't have towards customer. after 30 days they deniy all request & you need to go service center. about service center no need to tell after 10 15 visit they will accept it's faulty mobile then aske for approval for replacement that another 30-45 days. all this just because of we fools put faith on frudus online shopping site called flipcart.
1|Beware of this Product. You'll end up wasting you money. It's a cheap chinese shit in a beautiful wrapper. No unboxing reviews can tell you the bugs and issues with the hardware and software as well. I am using this product for last 20 days. And am now fed up with all the issues. To name a few - 1. Heating issues even after two upgrades. 2. After second upgrade the battery drains within 12 hrs even if you just keep the phone on table, with all the application, wifi, internet off. 3. Proximity Sensor has a lot of issues. 4. Touch becomes unresponsible sometimes. 5. The extra features which the phone offers will cause only trouble to you. Like, when I disabled a feature to not dial accidently in pocket, it started behaving weird. Camera clicks several pics inside pocket. 6. You cannot set a pin for more than 4 digits. So no exchange server synching which asks for more than 4 digits password. It will keep asking for 6 digit pin but will not allow you to put more than 4 digits. And the list has so many other issues. Apart from this FLIPKART is very very very reluctant to get me a replacement. I keep on opening requests and they keep on telling me to reset the phone and close the ticket. And when I called them, at first they tried to convince me then they put me on Hold for ever. After that they stopped picking up my call. Worst service by flipkart, for even Worse Phone. So, if you purchase this phone you will end up banging your head to wall after spending 13k. BTW This phone can be used as frying pan to prepare omelet. But trust me you can get a cheaper and better frying pan on flipkart itself.
1|I received a defective piece by flipkart. On placing order for return I experienced the worst ever customer service provided by any e commerce website. 1st time i raised the order for return than without resolving the issue they automatically dissolved the complain saying the issue is resolved. On next day again I raised the complain to get it exchanged which was followed by a call from flipkart and they mentioned some troubleshooting steps to be taken. But without confirming if the product was working fine or not they again resolved the issue. This is just example of growing arrogance of flipkart customer care and are not at all considered about customer satisfaction. Very shameful on part of flipkart.
1|the touch is not working flipkart not ready to give replacement . Mi 4i Mi 4i Color: White Qty: 1 Rs. 12999 Delivered on Mon, 18th May'15 Replacement (Return ID: 19444602) - REJECTEDView Return Details > We're sorry. We are unable to process your replacement request. Reason : The issue has been resolved between you and the seller. Hence, there will be no replacement or refund. Please refer to flipkart return policy Seller: WS Retail Date: Thu, 14th May'15 Order Total: Rs.12999
1|I got a defective piece which has an issue with mobile data connectivity. The mobile data works for only few minutes and then it will not work. I need to either restart the device or turn on or turn off the device so that the mobile data work for next few minuites. Also heating issue is present. Hoping for flipkart to replace this piece at the earliest.
1|Battery drains very fast, It doesnt look like 3000 mAH battery. Phone temperature rises to 45 degree.Its hanging & heating too much. Heating is unbearable on front & backside of phone, heat is generated near camera & earpiece. Phone is lagging in normal application, Ringtone & Alarm volume is very low. Ive also done bench marking, Results Found on phone are different than written on MI.COM website. antutu : 27984 instead of 40253 quadrant : 18148 instead of 25686 cf bench : 27442 instead of 57216 And its really Crazy and Ironical that after a purchasing a new phone, you have install a 800 MB update (With your Own Money) to resolve the problems made by the manufacturer.and even these updates are not reliable, Then other two updates comes (more 50+40 MB) for rectification of the errors done by developer of the phone. Even that does not work. When you install XIOMI PC Suit it is entirely in Chinese language, that much conman sense is expected from mi that it must be released in english. Requested for return: 1. First return request: the customer care person told to backup and reset the phone and cancelled the request.But it didn't work and problem persisted. 2. Second request return : the customer care told to install smartcheck app and did some testing and told that my phone is working, and rejected the request. Again I have requested for the return. Lets see....
1|This is a most pathetic phone I have ever seen. Calls get dropped after half a minute. gets heat up even if I'm not talking. Speakers are very bad. I am not able to hear even the ring tone. FM is also not working. Its camera doesn't work inside my house. PLEASE return my money back.
1|If u open only one app like whatsapp or fb and if u get a call ur phone will start burning like hell with in 2 min .. if you ask for flip kart for replacement u will ask to get ur handset serviced ..if yours is new mobile y you want it to be service ? i have used lot of mobile but got to say this mobile is only hype and flipkart is worst online shooping mart as if you go for replacement or return they will give you only one standard copy paste answer...So if your planning to buy this mobile and no issue of using a mobile which gets heated so much (you can google search you will find lot of reviews of mobile heating ) then only go for this mobile else its just a hype dont go there are lot of good mobile and online shopping portals...
1|The phone getting very hot if I talk 5 minutes only.The battery temperature gone to 44. Flipkart also not considering the user problems for replacing the item.I am facing the worst customer service from flipkart also.My advice is don't buy any mobile from flipkart.
1|Guys , Bought this Heater during may 14 flash sale . Handset touch response is totally poor , Heating issues. flipkart is sending defective phones . If u ask for a replacement - no response from the customer service and no actions taken till now. Do no Buy from flipkart . Dont waste your hard earned money . 30 day replacement guarantee , flipkart guarantee is a fake. This phone deserves 0 rating and flipkart deserves negative rating .
1|I made request of defected phone on 7th of may-15 and today its 19th of may-15 and flipkart is saying please wait for some time we will replace your phone as i have purchased new phone from market and now i don,t need replacement i need my money back else i will take legal action against you.
1|This review is not about Mi4i ( which NO Doubt is a wonderful phone) but it is about the Seller/Retailer/Supplier of Mi4i. Dear Flipkart...During the flash sales the customer is actually Wasting a LOT of his time in booking the phone.. i have booked Mi4i twice now. Even after the successful payment of Rs.12999/- i receive an email on the 5th day of the booking, stating that my order has been cancelled due to unavailability of the courier service to deliver at my address. The Customer Care Executives were of NO HELP!!! They could not tell the actual reason of the cancellation of my order. All they could say was that the courier service company does not deliver at the given PinCode.( 248001, 249199) NOTE: 248001 is the state capital of Uttarakhand !!! Actually..Flipkart ( WS Retail) has earlier delivered a number of my orders at these PinCodes [ Lenovo A6000, Redmi 1S etc].. but all of a sudden they choose to cancel my Order without giving me an option to change the delivery address. All this incident has been a BITTER experience for me and if such a thing continues, FLIPKART's reputation would not last long.
1|I received Mi 4i on 3rd may five days before the promised date Initial impression was very good but after using the phone for some time I was unable to use it because of the heat problem After the phone gets heat up performance drops drastically antuntu test result was shocking it got 21k far below the promised 40k+ very disappointed with the product and after sales service of the flipkart
1|This Phone have So Many Problems - HANGING PROBLEM, CHEAP HARDWARE Install ,ON/OFF PROBLEM ,Games Not Working Properly and Too Many . I have receieved this Product after using this product 2nd Day the Problem Starts specially Hanging Problem .Please I want to Return My Phone as Soon as Possible and Refund My Money .
1|1 thing which is biggest issue , phone is getting heat up to much even not in duration of call. It get hot that much of level i can't carry in my pocket also. i have to take it out. with this Problem you can't even touch the screen on cheek to make a call. rear Camera is good but front camera quality is not impressive as pixels are getting faded when zoom on image. After installing Above 500MB game, phone stop working and shutdown automatically and then boot-up. No Headphone comes with phone box and Flipkart confirmed that MI is not giving headphone / earpiece with phone. We have to buy separately which causes extra money need to pay at outside. Now looking from flipkart side to return my phone. I dont want it.
1|I got the product today. But after update phone has heating issue. its like hot cake!! Am thinking to return it. But other aspects is very good.
1|1) Phone gets heated up iron box, this phone can be used for ironing your clothes not for calls. 2) Current is getting passed from the round metallic plate which surrounds the camera when I keep the mobile for charging. 3) Back camera is the worst part, not even equal to 5MP. 4) I have tried plugging in to different switch port but then current gets passed from metallic plate of camera its very bad. 5) Totally its a worst mobile, Flipkart I just want my money back, no replacement. Very poor response from flip kart customer care
1|Recently, I brought Mi4i Mobile phone, while using this phone, I came across no. of lacunae like low user memory, heating while charging the battery / playing / accessing any applications / pgms, no earphones, no memory slots etc. I am a govt. servant and finding very difficult to use this phone with no. of lacunae. I wish to return the phone & want my money refunded back to me.
2|i got this mobile today. mobile features are great at this price but one major problem i see is that this mobile gets heated very quickly if charging or using apps for a longer time. heating problem is big issue for me. I will explore this mobile for next few days and provide review again.
1|I regret buying this phone. This phone has over heating problem despite multiple firmware upgrades. Battery life is hopeless does not last a day. Now it not charging. Servicing center is asking for paid repair despite the phone being on warranty. Phone is with the service center for past 10 days expecting for the parts to arrive. I would suggest please invest wisely and do not go by the specs. Only good thing I liked about the phone is the display.
2|It is an ordinary phone with ordinary features and i haven't found anything extraordinary as people have been talking/ reviewing at various websites. Battery lasts within 12 - 13 hours even at normal usage (without playing games). Camera picture quality is just ok and can't be compared with what a Samsung/ Apple produces. Despite of a 02 GB RAM applications take time and internet speed goes slow in this phone. I put the same 3G sim in other phones and internet speed is so fabulous but this phone makes internet connection go slow though i keep updating software. i would rate this phone as 02 at a scale of 5 with the kind of 13k price we pay and the kind of quality Xiomi Mi 4i produces. Go for Brands like Samsung, Motorola, Panasonic - They have better quality products within the same price range and brand feel is good.
1|This phone is not good. And I felt it would work very well. But, it doesn't reach my expectation. Whenever I use skype video call it will hangout just after a minute. Battery life is also not good.
2|Even after all the updates, it still is the shittiest phone I've ever purchased. Shittiest phone ever. Ever since it's purchase had to format the phone 5 times. Sometimes you will not be able to access the settings, if you try to it just hangs the phone till it overheats. Cannot change Wifi networks/settings, it hangs the phone. Everyday, twice or thrice it manages to create 10 Gb of trash, no idea from where it generates so much. Once the trash fills up my phone memory, it's just a dummy phone till you go and delete all the trash manually. The only app that I use are: Whatsapp, flipkart, PayTM and HDFC mobile app. Still it can't handle the load. I hope I can return this piece. Will give it 2 stars for it's camera.
1|xiomi's all phn battery backup is not good nd even customr service is also so bad,workers are very irresponsible nd always trying to make money by different sources..i request you not to buy xiomi's phones otherwise you will be responsible for your problems.
2|The Phone is not good All Cons no Pros Too much Heating no External Memory not a Flagship phone looks are good but performance is the worst
1|One of the worst mobile phone ever i have seen in my life. Please do not spent money on this product. Heating Issue from first day of purchase.
1|I have bought MI 4i from flipkart, the mobile was not as per expectations and 30 days replacement warranty of WS retail is also fake they refused my request the mobile was costed for Rs 12999 and it does not have external memory slot and internal memory is only 16 GB . I am feeling cheated , some one please suggest me some ways to resolve this.Even they did not provide any screen guard with the mobile which they used to provide with other MI Mobiles.This is totally useless product any one can go with other mobiles like ASUS Zenfone 2 which have same features and expandable memory upto 64 GB.
1|While the specs maybe great for this price, the hardware is appaling. The mi4i phone has a serious heating issue. The phone just heats up within 2-3 minutes of normal use. I am afraid of keeping the phone in my pant pockets fearing that the phone may explode if used for a considerable amount of time. Flipkart's call centres have been awful. They have rejected my return requests and aint helping me in resolving the issue through their smartcheck app. Avoid. Looks like just another Chinese phone.
1|Phone is handy, compact looks good...but has heating problem while multitasking.. It gets heated near camera and sometimes become too hot. Its not support the encrypted mail of corporate mail but other branded andriod 5 device support it.
1|Mi 4i is generating lot of heat problem, camera is not working Every time it prompts could not connect camera, try to restart the device. It is really waste of time. Touch is very slow. I have redmi2 without any issue, but mi 4i is having lot of problems. Customer support is not good in handling user problems correctly. I raised a concern on date 9th and till date i fell very bad. Every day i call filpkart cusotmer care and ask the update, simply says our technical team is very busy they will contact you soon. please be patient. once the 30days is completed they say you have exceeded the policy and simly skip the cusomer issue.
1|if you compare mi 4i with i phone it's type joke.I try for return but not possible as per flipkart return policy.If any want contact me. 0 star
1|I ordered the phone on the 1st day it was launched with great excitement. Only the first day of usage was good to experience. It heats up quickly even when watching videos. Automatically rebooted often, but now seems to have reduced. After every reboot the wall paper size/orientation changes, so need to resize or set the wallpaper newly. Any app crashes itself. Whatsapp could not recognize any of my phone contacts (After reinstalling a couple of times the issue resolved, but the issue randomly appeared today. So reinstalled whatsapp and again fixed the issue. Its hell worse) OS itself consumes 1.2 GB of RAM approx., but however doesnot hang when browsing, downloading or playing high-end graphic games. Abruptly the display goes blank (black), need to wait a few seconds to allow recover itself. Only good entities I found are the battery backup and the camera resolution. I would definitely suggest you NOT TO BUY this product.
2|Heating problem near the ear phone.Very low speaker volume. Very good camera, both front and back.Excellent touch and interface.Battery life hardly one day!
2|What the hell the designed the back cover such a cheap plastic box??? it's noisy when vibrating mode, and side volume & power buttons are sharp edges and irritating while using it, and these buttons are not smooth functioning . And, again HEATER , it's heating heating always. All other features are not bad.
2|i have purchases mi4i , nice phone nice touch nice camera, nice processor, but ear plug is not in the box . is there anyone purchases this ph. than tell me about this
1|Power button and the volume button of the phone is of very low build quality. Dont know about other things , but battery also looks it is of 1500 mah Camera is Decent . and MIUI 6 is really complex. not very easy to understand for a standard user.
1|I could have given zero star but that option is not available.. Flipkart delivered product before time..and asked for return within two hours of use.. Cons- 1) Display is Full HD and looks good in shadow/in home but when I went out side to see in bright sunlight I observed grid of white colour shiny dots equally spaced over screen (approx 5mm distance between every white shiny spot). This is more clear visible when screen is off. Look very bad and shows the quality of product (Chinese) 2) Ringer volume is not clear and not audible in more crowd area. Definitely you will miss the calls.. 3) Speaker quality is not up to the mark. Its not loud and clear 4)Ferrari without seat to seat--I have uploaded around 20 (max 40 mb size)apps to see the performance of mobile before that I have updated mobile software (800 mb size) and found only 5 gb space available. I was surprise after seeing this.. 5) width of buttons bellow screen (Home back etc) is very less.There are chances to touch the screen since width is very less..I think it is not designed considering human finger size.. 6) Sharp edges on volume and power button. I have informed to flipkart for return of the product asap.... So guys please think 100 times before buying this Chinese phone...
1|MI4i is just a fake, nothing is standard, if u compare it with LG/motorola/nokia/samsung even micromax....its horrible. battery 3120 mAh... much worse than 1500mAh. 13mp camera !!! worse than 5mp of nokia. my xperia m is much faster than this 1.7Ghz. total waste of money.hangs from the first day !!!!! lumia 730 is much much better or moto g2 in this range. and flipkart !!!! after delivery they will do nothng for any kind of problem. they will ask for this and that, but never will take the responsibilities after delivery.
1|The Phone have following problem... 1. Camera image is very bad in low light (not even equal to 5 MP) 2.Excessive heating while charging & Net use 3. Very Low Volume of music & ringtone 4. Battery actual 3030 , where as Xoimi claim 3130 (unethical practise) 5. Processes are actual 1.6Ghz which shown on my screen. these are the information which I can see , we all can imagine what else they are hinding to just sell their phone to Indian people.. They are trying to make fool to indian consumer ... I am requesting to flipkart please return this phone ....and requesting other please dont but this chinesse box
1|I liked the product in the first hour but after one day I am experiencing the worst part of it. The phone gets restart anytime while using, even I am not using it it gets restart automatically. I requested exchange and the technical person suggested to upgrade MiUi version to 7.0 something, I did that and also factory reset my handset, but the issue is still on, I have contacted once again to flipkart but still my issue is not solved and no one is looking at it, complete dissatisfaction from flipkart and Mi.
1|ok but not as expected from review. Phone is slow and hangs also. Not recommended. Memory is not good.. Cost is ok
1|I bought this phone in may 2015 . Ok it's a fine phone , but it has major issues with its charging. It takes a long time to charge even with the original charger. Once your battery goes dead you can't charge it again so you always have to be conscious to not let the battery dry out fully. Right now i am suffering because the my battery dried out and now my phone is dead , i cant charge it .My charger is fine it is working with other phones . I used a different charger but the phone wont turn on. I have used this phone for 7 months >
2|Not so impressive touch . in spite of 2GB ram , phone lags . In 1 month , screen replaced . thanks flipkart for this. overall dpnt go for MI at o; .
1|This the worst product ever.The services of flipkart is great but the product-mi 4i is waste of money
1|Hello all, I purchased mi4i recently,so phone is good but not great like moto products. MI brand need to update their products because when I used it's fluently getting message for sending bug report. Other problems is memory is inbuilt they not give facilities for extra memory. So please think about it and ALSO PRICES IS TOOOO HIGH.
1|Mi4i not upto the mark. you can't play games for more than 30 min due to heating issues. Lagging during multiple apps and games. Now winter is coming you don't need to purchase a heater because this phone can be used as a heater.
1|yes, i have used this phone and returned back with in 2 weeks. while phone is all over good to use but it hangs sometime and apps use to be crash. The main thing is rear camera, that's why i bought this phone, and i din't get a quality camera. that is not a 13 mp camera, full of noise and blurry images. Not recommended. And also this is a Chinese phone, which can never deliver quality like sony or samsung, so go for ome other phone if you want quality.
1|I bought Mi4i Phone from flipkart. I have been facing heating issues since the beginning and they keep release updates which are of size 800 MB + , but this issue will never solved. These days I started facing issue with volume keys and power button, volume keys are not working at all now and power button some times work and some times not. Getting irritated when I want to on the display (imagine the situation where you want to make urgent call but power button will not work at that time) I feel Xiaomi company does do basic testing and release low quality mobiles in to marked just with name of 2 GB RAM and Octa core processor . They should check really does it worth. Skype do not work well, all of sudden voice will go away. Seriously a worst phone. My humble request to all , please do not encourage or buys these kind of company and its mobiles , they are really not worth at all. they made wit very cheap quality hardware inside it. Flipkart, Why you are encourage these kind of phones when you know this phone has issues. Please do not get the victim of this phone in that matter all Xiaomi phones.
2|I have purchased 2 piece of this mobile during this dasara/diwali festival season. After usage found each piece has some or other problem. Seems the lot which were built for this festival season are compromised with quality. Issue found: 1. In one of the piece my voice was not clear to opposite person. 2. Another piece was having screen display issue. Some of the tine there will be some multiple lines on the screen covering 10% to 25% portion of the screen and will go off after some time. I replace both the piece. I am still facing other issues with newly received pieces: 1. One piece now has network issue. It's goes off and keep trying to get the network. At the same time other phones gets proper network of same service provider. 2. The other piece is getting hanged very frequently. Even my friend too say they have hanging issue with this model. 3. Camera quality is not that good as it should be for 13 mega pixel camera. Pros: 1. The display quality is very good. 2. The look of this phone is very nice.
1|I purchased this product 1 week back, and getting heated up like anything. Heat is coming, and it lasts until i keep the phone idle for 5 min. Heat is not increasing too much but its not good for this product. Requested return, and discussion is going on.. let's see.
1|I had purchase mi4i before 3 months. and after use I said it s not gud buy... prons best display good look cons yes the display is gud and comes with ogs technology ,,,it said one glass solution... hum m there is problem my phone just drop from 2 feet hight and glass of phone is broken from bottom side. and bottom navigation key not work otherwise whole disply is ok but because of ogs I need to chane touch panel with display and its cost around5500/-
2|just got my phone yesterday, it has serious heating issue . I used the phone for 10 mins just for call and it heat up considerably was unable to hold it near my ears.
1|Bought this product for just 9000 after starting the phone got to know that its not mobile it's a frying pan in form of mobile with OGS. -Hangs- too much heating around 4centigrade.From 2gb ram only 80available. -Shows 12.77 gb as user memory from which only 10 gb available.(even product replaced) -MIUI is better -Both the cams are best. -hangs in multi tasking.
1|Initially phone works very well till now but after updating MIUI to 7th edition phone heat up too much that it becomes unable to be touched. Also the camera is somewhat protruding and the flash is not much as it. there is no any way to reduce the heating of the phone and another one thing it was hanging up sometime and gets switched off automatically. when i put phone near to ear its screen still remains lighten up and after removing the screen still remains hibernated. resolve the issue
1|Heating problem with MI 4i everytime I use it. Either using internet or normal phone call its motherboard is getting heated constantly. I would advice not to buy MI 4i.
1|I bought this mobile 4 months back and had to give it to service center 3 times till now. Faced motherboard problem, front camera was not working and heating issue. Right now the touch screen is not working at all. I feel like throwing the phone into dustbin. Please dont go for this cheap quality phone. They dont even have a replacement policy from company in warranty period.
1|Dear All, This phone has got very poor Internet Connection. It never connects to a 2G,3G or 4G. It Supports only Wifi. I never Excepted this kind of Product from MI.
1|I purchased this phone around three months back. I use this phone sparingly i.e. once or twice a day. Still it started giving me trouble all on a sudden after a month and a half. Suddenly it was not charging and the display showing whether it is charging was not coming up. Also, it was hanging while rebooting. I gave it for servicing and they did full reset and gave it. It worked for a couple days and again gave the same problem. I gave it to servicing again and they replaced sub-pcb and gave it back. Now it started showing no-service even though it is detecting the SIMs. So, the phone has become useless. Again I am planning to give it to servicing. In the past three months, I used the phone only for 1.5 months, rest of the days it was in servicing. Also, I had to spent money and time travelling to this distant service center. I have used Nexus, Motorola, Palm, Samsung phones before, but never even once I faced a situation like this. My advice: AVOID THIS PHONE!
1|.mi 4i mob screen has been cracked .i also dont know how this happen .cost of screen replacement is around 7000 RS .so waste of money. mobile itself is about of RS 13000.no proper service center in mumbai . they are far away from us . so use your mob carefully .screen is not good.never apply high pressure on it...
1|This phone is very worst. Very heating option like message themes unabe to change no worth to buy price also not worth. all mi useless phone dont buy mi4i
1|I have been using this phone for past three four months : following are the conclusions Pros: good camera cons heating battery backup not as per 3100 mah battery many bugs so always there is a need for update low memory backup up can not be taken even the pc suite available on mi official site does not solve problems i have loaded it on two pc one with windows xp and other windows 10 but in both cases backup can not be taken. the most important factor is that the projections which mi people gave initially that the best services will be given, initially they were very prompt but now the scene is entirely different you have to try at least hundred times to connect to the toll free number , on mail you will never get a reply, at service center you have to wait for at least two hours for turn. i have visited service center at chandigarh they are fully non cooperative and the infrastructure is poor ie ac not working, sitting space not proper you have to wait standing. it seems mi is not much interested in indian market now.
1|Here MI4i come with 2gb RAM , but i open my phone 1st time and no other application i have install. but only 1gb RAM its showing at startup the phone, so other 1gb RAM where it use. System memory showing 16Gb, but only 10GB available for users. SO its making us fool. and Camera clearity is also law. No other extra ordinary features inbuild in phone.
1|Simple waste of money. better pay couple of thousands extra to buy any Samsung or HTC. Cons: 1. Heating while using camera or browsing 2. Volume is too low 3. Screen is too weak , good if u keep it in showcase. 5200 bucks just to change the screen, a nightmare for me. Will never ever buy these Chinese phones again.
1|Mi4i is worst mobile phone i ever had used. It keeps on opening new windows automatically and keeps on hanging. It automatically forces the application to shut down or stop working. And this happens even with applications like Whatsapp and facebook. The google services are pathetic to use. They are never working. PLEASE DO NOT BUY THIS MOBILE PHONE RATING: NEGATIVE
1|DO NOT BUY THIS PHONE!!! > Camera stopped working on the very first day. i am not sure if you guys will believe me or not but the camera stopped working on the very first day i got this phone. I thought its a bug in the OS and updated the phone to the latest OTA update, even after that the camera didnt start however it degraded the over all performance of this phone and yes guys it all happened the very first day of use > Heats like hell: | don,t buy until your hands are heat resistant. it heats concernedly even if you just browse through your settings or use the camera.. I can even feel the heat even when its in my pocket doing nothing. > I didn't tried banging this phone against the wall it might work just fine after that Only 2 issues everything else works fine i have already returned this phone and might get a new 1 but I WANT MY MONEY BACK
1|I have been using Mi 4i for past 2 and 1/2 months. In the beginning, the phone worked fine. But one day, all of sudden, the phone stopped charging. I went to the Mi service centre and they told me that it will take 45 days to repair the phone. I am really unhappy with the product and its service. Xiaomi has not made this product durable. I do not recommend this product to any one. Please don't by it.
1|Phone was delivered within time frame and well packed, however it start getting little more warm..initially then after one month screen display was not proper green lines were coming on edges, also while using maps phone was getting excessive heat up (i can not hold in hands, fear of blasting) when i brought it to pune exclusive service center, Xiomi people told user has damage the screen reason given as inside screen crack, so can not be covered in warranty , but i had placed hard glass and cover too there was no mark outside for damage or fallen still they gave reason you might have sit on phone so it is damage, it was n use to arguing with service centre people theu don't listen. PLEASE DO NOT BUY MI phone. my money and time are wasted to vist far away centre and off course on phone too.
1|my xiaomi mi fan hall so mi4i mobile heat issues. only 35 days used No games, no web surfing still heating in call attemt ear in heating and smell in mi4i my update miui7.
2|its good phone. But needs to work on some bugs, otherwise its irritating a lot. Camera clarity is good.
2|Hey peps, I have been using a moto G(1st Gen) phone over a year.I bought a brand new mi 4i from store (time to upgrade i thought ;) ) . FIrst of all talking about the pros: 1. The display on this device is gorgeous!! its the best in class display you could get. Colour reproduction is great. 2. The design is supercool.its sleek,stylish and if you want improve its looks u can pair it up with back covers. I personally liked the grey version. 3. As a first time user of miui i am becoming a fan of it . highly customizable. 4. The camera on this device is exceptional. the selfie cam comes with a beautification mode which really works!! Now coming to the cons: I already heard of the well acknowledged heating issue of the device. As I am not a gamer i thought its not gonna affect me But still dont ever think of multitasking on this device. I was unable to simultaneously use mobile data/wifi during phone calls as the device will be superhot. As we all know the issue is with a snapdragon 615 2nd Gen chipset. I donno whether this issue will be fixed or not. I thought like returning the device but I was in love with this beauty. So if u are an average user like me, just think twice before you buy this device or wait for the conformation that the issue is fixed
2|I personally used this phone. Found one big defect that whenever we reboot this MI4i phone, one process "com.google.process.gapps" stops. I checked this three times, always it happens. one more thing about this phone that it goes on hang if you are using internet.
1|From the day 1 I am experiencing some understated unexpected problems: - Keep hanging on regular intervals - Problems in surfing Internet. - Sharp edges - Bar buttons (main three buttons at bottom) are not working properly and keep hanging. I will never recommend anybody to buy this handset.
1|Pros: very good specs at this price range sucessfully withstands few drops with minor damage decent camera Good service network Cons: Many xiomi phones have died with minor water splash ( may be due to its design even a single drop of water thro the ports finds it way to the critical components) Spares are too costly
2|The phone doesn't allow incoming calls when the internet preference setting is in LTE mode (4G). When I make a call to someone, and finish my conversation with them, and immediately if someone else makes a call to me, I'm able to get the incoming call and also answer them. But after 5 minutes, if anybody calls me, "the subscriber has switched off the mobile phone or can't be reached at this moment, please call after sometimes" is what the caller receives at their end. When the setting is set to 3G mode, the phone is fine. I thought it to be a defect in the Sim card or maybe with Airtel network issues, So I had put my sim card into my tablet which is also 4G. It worked fine. Incoming calls happens. Again I switched the sim card to my brand new Mi 4i, the phone doesn't pick incoming call signals. I called Xiomi customer care. They asked me to restore factory settings. I did just that and started fresh with my phone again. The problem persists. I have requested a replacement. Fingers crossed.
2|I thouht this phone is superior than any other brands because the manufacturer given this feeling in our minds but when I used this phone I thought I was mis-guided.
1|Sound quality very poor, slippery back cover.not at all recommended. Camera is not teh quality which a 13 px should have.
1|Its waste of buying Mi4i Phone. First we faced the problem with the handset and replaced with new one and again we are facing the problem with second one. When we take the vide o and send it through whatsapp getting green line on the video. When we are talking phone getting heated after one minute. Please don't buy the this phone. This is my sincere advise to all of you.
1|touch doesn't work properly on the right side of screen...from the very first day. can't talk with phone touching ears or face--gets hot can't get piston earphone..always out of stock..
1|this phone under performs on all fronts. Battery sucks. speaker sucks. phone lags a lot even on basic applications. heats like stove. MIUI is over hyped, seriously it sucks too. Body made of plastic looks like cheap china phone. No resale value. having a big RAM and Processor does not guarantee a good phone and MI 4I is the perfect example of it the only good thing was the camera but what is the use when the phone hangs.
1|I have already carried it to service center 3 times for 3 different issues. In Every other phones you can do 1 thing if there is any problem, you switch off the phone and after rebooting your problem is solved itself. but in this phone that is not an option. My 3 issues were 1. Earphone logo appeared even there is no earphone connected to it 2. Front Camera option Just got vanished. No sign of it. 3. No sim card detected even there is two Sim cards appropriately inserted. And Dont expect a lavishing experience in service centers.Worst Service centers everywhere. They dont even have their own Service Centers. My Recommendation Dont Go for it.
1|The screen glass is very weakest one. It is breaking, Even if you press while you play game. For me, it just broken within 1 month, when I was using. Could not believe. I do not want to spend further money to fix, since there is no guarantee that the life time. Either Im going to through this or give to my known circle as free. I had heating issues too. Poor service centers and its operations in India My opinion: Do not buy this Mi4i phone. You may need to change frequently the display. You could have been bought even IPhone instead of this. Because display is such a high price and unavailability.
2|Good look but miui has to much software bugs sometimes updating the phone may be harmful to phone specially front camera(BLURR IMAGES). sometimes miss call shows rejected though you don't do so.
1|Worst phone I have ever come across it starts heating up to fast also the sound quality of Mi4i is not so good I think MI needs to fix this problem as it is the common complaint of most of the users better prefer branded phone just dnt go for looks see the features as well.
1|I have bought this phone before 4 month.... Look wise good but functionally issue found Phone Hang and Battery drain very fast and also Hand-free not provided by Xioami... multitasking features also not available in this range .... Finally I give only 1 star... If possible for change ...I do...
1|This was my first Xiami phone and i am very disappointed with the performance. While the camera quality is good, the voice clarity and the software
1|i don't want this phone coz: 1) no external memory option 2) company lying about user memory is 12.77gb its only 9.8gb and that is also after updating otherwise its 9gb only 2) not removable battery 3) no earphones with this product 4) heating problem 5) sound quality is bad and very low please flipkart i don't want this "Mi4i" replace this with another company's mobile please call me
1|I was a MI fan since MI3 but MI4i is the worst phone till date. I have used phone for just few months and phone is completely dead. It wont boot up. Completely dissatisfied.
1|Not a great product from MI.The sound quality is very bad.The phone gets heated up. Bad connectivity for internet on phone data
2|After roughly 1month of usage - Pros - - Fast - seamlessly navigate between the opened apps. No glitch at all. - Lots of space RAM for apps. - Cons - (latest software updates does not fix these existing serious issues) (based on - MIUI 6.6.10.0 (LXIMICF)- - I can not make or receive calls. - You can not see your contacts. It hangs and crashes the Phone dialer. - As everyone is saying, it heats during music playback and calling. - WhatsApp - take a bit of time to load. - Corporate Email hangs most of the time while downloading emails. In my opinion the software bugs need to be fixed. If it takes too much of time to fix these, I would prefer to wait for some more time before buying this product. As the mobile without a calling facility does not make any sense! :-( This is my 3rd Xiaomi mobile. I was little bit disappointed with the performance and Quality of this phone.
1|Bad Gaming Experience Even with MIUI7 5.8.22.UI lags even in Normal game play.This is just a Camara phone not for game lovers .
1|Total chaos in arranging the apps. You cannot order the desktop items easily. Hangs frequently. Battery drain is horrible! All in all I am not happy with the product.
1|here are no externel memory place in this handset , battery back up is good weigt is low means good , only lack of externel memory system is weak point of this handset , i am not satisfied.................
2|Since the last updation of the SW, Heating problem of handset is resolved but following new issues has raised: 1. Touch screen is working inappropriately. You will try to type something but, it will take something else on keyboard. The app windows will pop in and pop out as per there wish. Typing and surfing has become a v tedious task. 2. Disable the Data usage and Sync option. But the phone will run the applications in background and updation of the mails will keep on popping up. 3. Speakers are low in quality.
1|I just received the phone 10 minutes ago and surprised its a used phone and even the display screen is cracked. Not sure how WS Retail could think that customers are dumb.
2|mobile is awesome, quality also good, but glass, its not gorilla glass, if you keep in pocket also, crack coming in glass
2|Phone is hanging at most of times,low memory space not able to expand,volume is very low rest is ok Worth of 15K It's been two months i am using this product, It's perfect product for many actions. i ordered it in flipkart. its deliverd next day itself.
1|I had purchased a Mi4i mobile phone from your marketplace on the 26th of May 2015. Though the phone was performing as expected, in the first 2 days from purchase I realized that the phone used to heat up during the charging process. On the 20th of August after returning from office, I had connected my phone to the charger and was browsing my messages on it. The phone was already heating up a lot, but I ignored it thinking that it was just a normal thing for this phone. Suddenly i saw that a crack was forming on the screen running from the top right hand corner towards the bottom left hand side. I was completely shocked and could not believe what was happening. In the next few moments that followed I saw multiple cracks happening on the screen, all originating from the same place. I could not believe my eyes and immediately removed the phone from the charger. Once the phone was removed from the charger, no more cracks appeared on it. I would suggest all customers to kindly take feedback on the over heating issue from other users as well.
1|I procured Xiomi 4i 2 days back and the blue tooth and wifi doesn't work properly. Also I encountered some issues with the touch.
2|The phone is slow, buggy, charges better only with the supplied charger, average battery, tacky UI... I can't just go on and on. Please don't waste your money on this crap.
2|The phone has issues with Battery is not that great Heating up when using 4g / 3g Sound is below par , you may miss your alarms .
1|Poor and low quality material......don't buy... 1.sound quality so bad. 2.No headphones 3.lack of accessories in market 4-Bad customer service 5-Low quality screen
2|software problem...hiting problem..hang over this phone....itz very bad...nd very slow.... mi 1s compares very bad mi 4i..
2|Hi, Please dont buy this one, better to go for Mi4 than Mi4I. Mi4I have various issues like after upgrade its front camera was giving distorted images, heating problem and in conference calls its UI gets hanged. i replaced it once and now the second one is okay not giving much problem but not smooth though, UI still gets hanged sometimes.
1|Really, I researched for almost a month to get a new phone and zeroed on the highly glamorous MI4I... only to met such dire dissapointment, that within a month of use I am fed up. Instances below: 1. Candy Crush takes 45 seconds to open. 2. Wassap crashes every 2 out of 5 times. 3. EXTREMELY BAD Signal receptors. In low signal areas it will instantly show no signal. 4. IT HANGS! (Within 1 month) 5. I can cook rotis on the backside with-in 15 minutes of continuous use. 6. Longer Battery: Bull-shit, it discharges with 2 hours of continuous use. 7. I have only 3 additional apps on the phone (Myntra + Candycrush + Paytm) - it still hangs. 8. I have this extremely irritating continuous screen which says don't cover the top part of the phone. 10. Any link (for eg: your friend shared a link of shirt on myntra) will open on the browser and not on Myntra app - there's not even a option for that. 11. It is slightly big - not ergonomic to hold in hand And - It doesn't have everything customizable as the MIUI6 claims! It's a sham! Pros: Yes there are - I am not a Hater, just a victim of glamorous marketing: 1. Camera is very good - but it hangs! 2. It has some cool features, like transition effects, merge contacts. 3. Screen colours are good too. With so many good reviews below, I am still open to contention that maybe I got a bad dysfuntional piece, but what about UX/UI problems?
1|This is a review after using the phone for more than 45 days now. First I want to highlight the phone's build, It has a very smooth back cover and it can easily slip from your hands anytime. There is minimal to none grip on this phone. The borders of the screen is so thin you always close or touch some other icon when you are using the phone. Now to the UI .... This is the most unstable UI i have seen on xiaomi phones. Facebook, dialer, messaging, settings always crash. I don't understand where the 2 GB RAM is being utilized. And, the customer service is so pathetic. what ever you ask them on the phone, chat or email. They just re-direct you to the service centre and generously provide you the address and the phone numbers. I have used MI3, MI 4, MI 4i, redmi 2. I have never seen such delicate build, unstable UI on any of the phones. If you buy this phone you will definitely repent as I am doing currently.
1|Very fragile screen...It shattered from a slight fall from 1 feet...Phone touch stopped working so i had to go for replacement..Stupid customer service engineer says this phone comes with ordinary glass (doesnt even knows the glass type)..Charged me Rs3705 for replacing the screen...Service charging all payment in cash...very bad attitude at service center.. seems like they have given us phone for free.. Know i am always scared in carrying the phone...This phone has become big pain in butt..
1|Speaker sound high to low automaticaly.Otherwise it is a nice phone very slim very light weight.Good Battery life.Camera quality is low not great comparison to other 13MP Camera mobiles like Samsung,Sony,Micromax etc.
2|I had Redmi note earlier so i was quite a fan of MI but this phone is just unbearable... software does not work properly ... heating like a stove... 4g speed pathetic... good specs but u cannot use them... only plus the looks and display
2|Xiomi has compromised on the screen protection (Corning Gorilla Glass is not there) to reduce the cost. This phone will get easily damaged. My phone has a minor crack which is barely visible ( Unfortunately Flipkart dont allow to attach photos, I do have one if Flpkart allows for you to have a look). Now my phone is as good as a brick, it does not recognize touch. Compare this with other similar phones say lumia 630 (older model though) continues to work even after the glass is broken. This issue is reported in the Mi forums also along with other known issues like overheating. Read yourself before you take a decision, to see the extent of this issue. I had posted a link to the relevant Mi Official forum, which was removed by flipkart as it was against their policy. In summary, this phone is only for those who keep their phone in their showcases :-), not for regular use. There are better options available. Giving 2 stars for its looks and decent performance while it worked, but this is definitely not a value buy.
2|I bought Mi4i On 7th july, after reading all the amazing reviews about it. However had a bad experience with the same, The applications crash abruptly , even the os malfunctions at times. The screen isnt scratch resistant either. The screen on time is barely 4.5 hours The camera however is excellent the stars I give are only for the amazing Camera. Flipkart was considerate enough to give me a replacement for the same without any hassle. However even the replaced device had the same issue.
2|HEAT ISSUE IRRITATING AND SPACE NOT ACTUAL 16 10 GB ONLY FREE THAT IS NOT ENOUGH FOR EXPECTING MORE NO EXPANDABLE MEMORY
1|I had ordered Xiaomi Mi4i - 16 GB Grey through WS Retail. The delivery of the same was done just one day prior to the expected delivery date so had to wait for a longer time. I wouldn't like to mention the specifications so will directly go on to the review. I used this mobile for a total of 3.5 days only as on the third day half of the display suddenly became blurred. I called up the customer care of Flipkart and they told me that if the hardware doesn't support the apps then the display can become blurred. After much follow up my money amounting to 13K was refunded after almost a month. My review is based on the 3.5 days of usage. Pros: Very light weight (130 g) so easy to hold. LED notification is good. Build quality is nice. Design is very sleek. The processing is quite fast (2GB RAM and 16 GB ROM). Camera is really good both back and front. The display was the highlight of this mobile as it is a full HD display but sadly this the feature which put me off later. LTE Support for both the SIM's. Battery life is good, the battery lasted almost 1.5 days. Cons: The heating issue is the biggest problem with this phone. It is really irritating to hold a mobile which heats up very quickly even if I am just checking out SMS or just simply browsing the internet for 5 -10 mins or on a call for more than 10 mins. No headset is given along with the mobile. The audio quality at the time of calling is very average. The audio quality on the speaker is very poor actually as good as mute. As the experience of this mobile wasn't upto the mark especially because the display went off in just 3.5 days of usage it left me very disappointed so I didn't order it again. I have recently ordered Moto G 3rd Gen as it was in the same price range. Conclusion: Based on my experience I wouldn't suggest this mobile to anyone also Flipkart needs to improve on their customer service front.
1| You could feel the heat on your ears while calling someone over this phone Useless of having this heating machine. perhaps we could use it for ironing shirts and pants etc., It is really painful headache having this phone on hand.
1|Within one month of my purchase of the phone, Mother board got crashed. Handed over the phone in MI service centre. (Still my phone is there only) At first I was impressed by the camera, but it gets heated immediately after the usage of 5 minutes. I will not suggest this phone to anyone.
2|Good Phone some problems but ok Hanging Problem, Charging problem some times not charge. Some heating issues this phone. Space Problem No extra Memory Card Insert in this phone. But Ok....
2|Bought Mi4i even after reading lot of Negative reviews from Flipkart. Personally felt cheated & disappointed after found the Phone giving lot of issues. 1) Heating during calls is the worst part. 2) MIUI the customized Android UI in this phone is not stable has too many bugs which will irritate you 3) In low light the Phone will turn blank, or a Message will appear to press the volume and back button together, This troubles the most when you receive a call. 4) The OS uses more than 1GB of the available RAM leaving very less for the apps. 5) The Battery -- the Most frustrating Part, drains like a hell & then the charging takes over 3+ hours. 6) Does not have a notification System even does not notifies that you have a missed call on the home screen. and the list goes on................ Getting adapted to the BUGGY MI4I.. But in my personal review is DO NOT BUY its not worth spending your money on the buggy version. Even if they give an update to make it stable why should the user spend his money on buying this piece of CRAP and waiting for their update.
2|Hi ... I brought mi 4i in the month of July 2015.. very first product was faulty and it took more than 7 days to get it replaced. Phone keeps on reminding that you have a china product. Heating is biggest issue and camera starts after ages...so make sure you start the camera well before. flip-kart after sales service is also very poor. I think this is what happens when American business style is applied in India that to for a china product... I would recommend some branded phone at 13K... Disappointed with mi 4i... Good Luck !!
2|Reported Wi-Fi issue in the Bug reported bunch of time after an updated , till no response. Camera and display are good.
1|No long bettery life and heating problum come in any time and internet speed very poor wifi direct not spotted
1|this is the worst phone i have used in my life..this heats up like hell and hangs frequently..overall worst experience.dont buy this.
1|AFTER 10 DAYS USED 1.PHONE BATTERY IS TOO POOR 2.PHONE HEATING TOO MUCH 3. WHEN NET USING PHONE BATTERY DISCHARGE FULLY MAX.5 HRS 4.RETURN POLICY VERY BAD... I TRIED 5 TIMES..THEY REJECTED 5 TIMES... 5. IF PROBLEM NO REFUND..U CAN TAKE ONLY REPLACED.. 6. PHONE HANG AUTOMATICALLY WHEN SOME APPS CONTINUE ADVANTAGES DISPLAY GOOD,PHONE FAST MY SUGGEST DON'T BUY THIS PHONE.... IF YOU SERIOUSLY WANT.. MY SUGGESTION GO ANOTHER ONLINE WEBSITE WHERE RETURN POLICY GOOD... DON'T BUY FROM " FLIPKART "
2|Excellent phone for the price range..super fast while using,excellent pictures and much more Only issues faced is Phone is getting heated after usage which is very uncomfortable .
1|Not happy with this product. I was delivered Mi4i on a Friday and the following Monday, the display started fluttering... tried to reboot the device several times but the problem stayed on. Didn't expect this quality from Xiomi!
1|A very very poor in battery, very much heating problem, it hangs so much when using games or watching movies... heating problem of phone is very big problem.. if u update it though it will heat and when talking our ears also heat up... when u switch on flach light it heats up within 1 minute no good memory storage, it is 16 gb but usable is only 10.5 GB camera is good but storage is poor... no accessories is available in local market and also no any thing new in box only charge is available.. flipkart return policy is very poor i already tried it to return for 4 to 5 times but i can not get proper answer, too....
1|I am writing this review after using this phone for one week. Please read the full review before buying this phone. Cons:- 1.Not even per with any phone in this range in case of performance. First day it played Asphalt 8 smooth, next week it started lagging. It is taking too much time to load any app. And it is taking hell lot of time to boot. 2.Camera is not good, just look good on phone only. 3.MIUI is not good. 4.Battery is also not good as expected as you will except with more than 3000 mAh battery. 5.Browsing is OK but not per with so high config phone which is mi4i. 6.Just 16 GB internal with no external memory, You will get around 10.5 GB in brand new phone, first you will think its enough but after a week you have to take care of single MB of space. Pros:- Phone look and its weight which is very light.
1|i saw in flipkart. They said that it has many good specification . but it is illustion they cheated me . I bought to my brother as a gift ,in first 3 days looks good but after that it geets struck in lock screen and my brother scolded me why you are got me a idiotic phone CONS The graphics is not working i thing so,and it get struck ,then the battery is poor, it very slow compared to any another and there are many cons , only one pros PROS It has a good camera quality
1|I have purchased 2 mi4i products from flipkart .its the worst product ever selling on flipkart.i recommend do not purchase it
1|Please solve the issue of phone heating . if we speak for more then 3 mins phone will heat automatically and ear will pain from the so please solve the issue .
2|Better go for Moto G 3rd Gen. Mi4i has still got intolerable heating issues. The battery drains out quickly and the cam quality is average. Despite 2gb RAM still feels sluggish when compared to Moto G 2nd Gen. So overall I would suggest new buyers to AVOID going for Mi4i.
1|Screen failure including no display/abnormal display. And Poor Customer Service Support from Flipkart.
2|Using since last one month. In-spite of Upgrading the software of 800 MB, Heating is the greatest disadvantage of this phone.
2|When I Order this phone, I saw an offer of get 500 coupon code free, but still didn't get any coupon. for phone, phone is awesome.
1|PHONE HEATS SO MUCH USES SO MANY PHONES BUT THIS IS WORST SOOO MUCH HEAT LIKE A PAN YOU CANT BEAR TRUST ME
1|this phone is just a headache nothing else. and the tag line is"Mad India four (for) India. I suggest you all not to buy this phone. it is value for money but at the same time you will get what you pay for it.
1|worst phone ....go fr asus zenfone 2 or micromax yurekha or xpress2 ths phone hangs and heats like hell
1|Discovered another bug (has to be abug!!). took me a while to reproduce:Whenever there is a missed call - the call history shows the missed call normally.If you dial back on the missed call, it goes through fine (doesnt matter if the call is answered or not).Now, if there is a missed call from the same number, the call shows asreject instead of missed. There are no notifications etc. [there is no manual rejection of any call in the process, i.e., by sliding up the red icon when the call comes].Same behavior if that number has been dialled previously some time back and you get an incoming call that gets missed. the call will always showas reject until the callercalls again and the call is missed.I have tried it over and over again, and it is definitely a bug! Attached screenshots showing the same behaviour. Go ahead and try it.Mods, devs, MI reps and all users - pls go ahead and try this!!! i have played around with all settings and cant figure this one out. Also there are automatic brightness issues. Auto wifi on issue very low volume.
1|Touch sensitivity is not great.. phone gets heated up big time..from the performance wise its kind of good.. for the money what we have invested you are getting a decent configuration.. I see a little lag in touch sensitivity..
2|Internet speed in this phone is very very slow. It is worst phone that i have ever purchased in this range. I need to replace it now.
1|Very bad experience with this Chinese phone. 1. Battery does'nt even last 12 hrs (I have installed the new update). 2. Camera is average at the best. 3. You can barely hear the phone ring. 4. Everytime I have to restart to connect to internet. Don't buy this piece of crap and waste your hard earned money.
1|worst battery performance I have ever seen. Excessive heating problem, yes You can make omlete on the phone. Not recommended. Loosing faith in flipkart because of products like this.
1|This mail is to inform the bad experience i am facing with the hand set purchased through Flipkart. Phone become not responding continuously. Now a days the Touch screen facility is also bad. Because of this bad quality, lock pattern becoming an headeache as it cannt be able to open.
1|the product is good but the Customer Support has given me a big headache. I am facing big time issues in getting it replaced. Have got a mail that they will update me by 27th. But still there is no call or any other support from the team. And each time while calling Customer Support, I am getting a never ending 24 HOUR revert back information which i have not got since more than 120 hours. Donno how much more i will have to wait to get my product replaced. Would request an immediate attention from HIGHER Management if they really want to support us. PLEASE PLEASE HELP. When contacted today, have got a revert that despite receiving the original product for replacement the processing will not happen before 31st July. This is getting into a nightmare for me and require immediate attention.
1|Last week i have received Mi4i. the mobile having excellent Clarity and camera ! But Over Heating while Data Service On. My EAR Burned within Two Days Usage..because Overheating!!! i will raise return request to flipcart!! surprised i got SMS.( within 48 hours product adviser will call and find out your issue).But4 days over no one is contact me..Only Get Apology from flipcart. Your Return request rejected!!! PHONE OVER HEATING !!!POOR BATTERY BACKUP!! WONT GET WARRANTY!! ONLY APOLOGY FROM FLIPCART!!!
1|A lot of heating. Can't hold for long near ears. It burns. Descending ringtones to nonaudible state causes missing of calls, alarms, timers etc. Not worth buing. There is always a fear and anxiety.
1|I bought this phone only as per quality standard set by Xiomi. But this time I am really disappointed. This phone has too many problems. First and foremost is the speaker. The volume is so low that its not audible most of the time. Second is the heating problem. The phone gets warm while using and charging. Third problem I am facing is the battery. They have made a wonderful screen. But if we use the screen in full brightness mode then battery get exhausted very early.
1|Mi4i mobile set is a very bad quality mobile. DO NOT PURCHASE THIS MOBILE SET. It is excessively heating during charging and also during its operations such as talk, camera modes etc.Some times re-charging of power is possible only after re-starting mobile. Its software is not stable, hanging frequently, some settings changing automatically. Suddenly its color, contrast & brightness changed to black & white negative film mode, and not restoring back to its original settings in spite of refreshing, rebooting & re-starting this mobile. It is a great cheating of Chinese company. A BAD PRODUCT COMPARED TO ITS PRICE. NEVER SUGGEST OTHERS TO PURCHASE IT.
1|Xiaomi is using great marketing strategy by adopting registration system thus fueling in artificial demand. The company should instead focus on the quality of products that are released & not just on offering higher-end specs at a lower price. Seems like the company never test check their products before putting out in the market. Almost all Xiaomi phones have series of problems, most important being the heating one .The after-sales service is poor too. The technical team at one of the centers(S.G. Infotech, Borivali) I visited are severally incompetent. Here are some pros & cons: Pros: Good build quality MiUi is simple & nice to use Great camera Cons: Heats up even while performing day-to-day tasks Poor after-sales service Don't get tempted by the value-proposition this phone offers. Instead, go for a decent brand!
1|It has a lot of issues to name a few, any app that requires a 6 digit pin authentication will not work with this phone. For some reason the phone just does not allow more than 4 digits to be entered. Now all of a sudden it wont play anything on the speaker. and it stopped just like that. Neither did it fall, no did I spill water on it, it just stopped. a lot of other smaller issue cropping up as days progress.
1|Camera - Awsome! Browsing - The Worst! Battery - Average! Not an interesting mobile!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1|Each & every moble wil get the best quality of headsets from company... but they hav not provided the headsets with the mobile... very bad thing in reputation of MI 4 i....
2|Pros: Affordable Dual Sim Phone with 2 GB RAM Good Look and Feel Nice Screen Clarity Cons: Processor is not that good (Mi3 is much better) Phone Speaker for Calls not audible sometimes further sometimes there are sim detection problems that only corrects when engage airplane mode and disengage it or restart the phone
1|This phone worked fine for 1 month but then once battery drained to 0% and it didn't turn up again. i tried charging it for 2-3 hours but it didn't switch on. Bad Experience..:(
1|in short - over heating, camera lag, poor battery. only thing good about it was look n feel. returned to flipkart
1|=>Heating Issue. =>Sometime it is giving problem while mounting USB, not being detected. =>Music player is not playing mp3 songs. =>And for most of the issues the representative ask me to restore the factory version. That means making backup than restoring it again and again. That's really IRRITATING. Note:- Even after getting the trouble shoot the problem is not resolve.
1|too much of heating. wast of money don't purchase this. camera is not up-to mark. wast of money. heating issues. with in five min heating like boil milk.
2|This product is a good example of cheap Chinese product quality. Looks nice but basic hardware quality is poor. I am a light user with very few applications installed. Still I have to re-boot the phone thrice a day to stay connected. Following are some of the problems: 1) If you have large contact list, it will take forever to load your contacts, you may have to re-start after few hours of usage 2) If you are on roaming, then you will have to remove and re-add the apps to the whitelist, otherwise you will not able able to access the internet 3) If you are in an area where the network strength is poor, while other people may be making calls comfortably, this phone will not catch any network 4) The loud speaker is very poor I was hoping to use this phone for a year, but after 1 month of usage I am looking to replace this phone already.
2|After using one month speaker out. Data connection dosent work properly for that you need to turn off the sim & switch on then only connects the data. Looks very slim & good appearance but performance is bad.
1|I Purchased the Mi 4i on 25 the of June .The specification is good see but functioning is worst .Much heating problem , drain- Off of battery quickly even for short duration calls. Non response of touch screen promptly,Very low ringing sound even you may miss your calls.I can not recommend to even for enemy also .Never buy the phone and dont waste your money and time by just by tempting specification.
1|Got my 4i today morning and I am writing this update in less than 1 hour of receipt. The phone came with MIUI v 6.5.5 and at initial startup itself, phone showed signs of heating, unbearable by all standards of mobile phones. The phone then prompted me to update MIUI and I did ASAP ....got it to MIUI v 6.5.6.....restarted the phone....heating didn't subside...right now the phone is charging and both the back and screen is hot......just can;t place the phone near the ears. Rest everything about the phone is good as you may have read other reviews.....but heating is a major problem. Forget gaming, I haven;t installed any extra app so far except Whatsapp.........heating is indeed a major problem and that's why I give a rating of 1 star
1|Its the worst product that you could ever buy . The worst phone by xiaomi till date. Its getting heated up and after update the 2 processors are permanently disabled .! So lesson for xiaomi is that wait for the reviews and then buy the product i feel like i have been cheated ! i wish i cud give zero stars to this device .
2|Gallery and Music Player is not showing files that are manually downloaded from other phones. some software like safe gallery, and app lock is also not supporting. I requested to replace my phone on 13 july 2015.
1|I recently bought this phone. It doesn't worth for money. 1. Heat.. heat... heat... 2. Software issue 3. Slow performance 4. All themes showing with chinese language 5. There is no return and no refund the amount Don't buy this.. I think Xiaomi creates marketing strategy. i am fooled by their marketing strategy. Dont buy this.
1|I purchased this product a month back, the screen display, all 3 buttons are not working due to small scratch on the glass. I have visited MI service centre, without basic investigation they are asked me to replace entire display. Guess what price for that is 6500 Rs. I have called up MI customer care, they are saying sorry for the inconvenience but i have to get the replaced by paying the price. I wouldnt suggest this phone to any one.. plz dont buy and dont waste your money on this pathetic phone.
1|2GM Ram, specs on paper better than other phones but pathetic device. Massive lag. Even opening chrome takes a few seconds. Don't even try opening multiple apps. I am throwing this in the dustbin. Chinese stuff is eventually chinese, where Xiaomi or someone unknown brand.
1|Its been 20 days exactly since i bought this phone and suddenly the phone showed its true face.The battery is getting leaked and its getting so hot while charging and when speaking in a call.Suddenly it stopped from getting charged though the charger is working fine.I hate to talk about the camera which is another worst part with no clarity and i even stopped taking pics with the mobile. my suggestion is to be aware of this mobile since many people faced problem with the battery issue.
1|Mobile was not up to my expectations. A faulty product was delivered first which used to restart once every 2 minutes. Had to go through a lot of process & time to get it replaced with a new mobile. Even the new one is not up to the mark. Overheat problem is still there. And performance wise I have seen better mobiles. There is a definite mismatch between RAM(Low) and Processor(High). Although the feel & finish of the mobile and camera are pretty good. Conclusion - Definitely not worth the price.
1|Just got my mi4i ... WORST PHONE EVER .... my 1000 bucks nokia was better ..overheats in a second and cameras all f'd up
2|It's been only 2 -3 days that I have used this phone. First impression is as follows: 1. Gets heated up real quick. I wish I had read earlier reviews. Because of this heating issue, I am skeptical of putting cover which would as an insulator and might not allow heat to dissipate. 2. Good interface. 3. Battery is decent. Doesn't feel like 3100 mAh. 4. Looks and touch wise it is good. 5. Less than 1 Gb of 2GB of RAM available
1|i bought new mi 4 mobile in this mobile have only one repeated problem faced like proximity sensor failure dont buy this mobile huge money loss also xiaomi 100% helpless service after sales, if you xiaomi product pl visit customers review
1|Phone looks are excellent but Quality is not that great .I purchased this around 2 months back and start facing issues . 1) Suddenly connectivity lost and phone got restart . 2) Heating Problem while using net or playing games. 3) Incoming Call gets rejected itself. 4) Camera Quality is not good as per 13 megapixel , Samsung 8 megapixel is better than this. Overall not satisfied.
1|The phone is looking so good, Light in weight, Display is very good but performace of the phone is very bad hanging, heating, earpiece sound quality is too bad, Chargning issue (sometimes after restart charge again and it is repeated process).
1|the battery back up is very poor, when make a video call front camera does not function properly and the replacement quarenty is very poor, take care
1|its very slow, poor performance, heatup. its not support 3d games. camera quality is poor. overall dont go to buy it.
1|Never indicates Missed call, can not make a call in one touch, heating problem, Regret purchasing it...
1|Xiaomi - is living upto its vision by providing high end hardware at lower price than the competitors. But, they need to tweak their Quality check process, to filter the initial teething issues and retain the customers. I am not going to talk in detail about the hardware specifications here. But lets talk on the key + & - Key selling points for the phone 1. Good hardware spec - Though the processor is know for its slight heating issue 2. Great build quality 3. Right pricing Areas of improvement 1. Reliability issue in general with Xiaomi - out of the 4 Mi4s and 3 Mi4is I procured for my family and friends, 1 Mi4 went dead, 1 had to be replaced due to hanging issue, 1 Mi4i had to be replaced due to dead condition and 1 Mi4i was replaced due to heavy battery drain. Once replaced the phones are working fine, which means they are not properly tested out of the factory. 2. Excessive heating issue in Mi4i - Though it is due to the Snapdragon process, its the responsibility of Xiaomi to address it before releasing in mass market. Software updates have reduced the heat greatly and obviously there will be some performance drop, which will not be felt by average users. 3. Low volume - this will really be a deal breaker for few, based on their ambience noice. For a normal home or office environment, should be manageable Alternate options - The only alternate I can recommend is Mi4 (considering the price cut). I love both Mi4 and Mi4i for their fluidity and performance. Go-ahead and buy, provided you have the patience to take the replacement path, if the phone that reaches U is faulty
1|1. Flipkart Worst ever 30 days return policy 2. the phone may have High SAR value than mentioned in the box - It will cook your brain like boiled egg, and many health issues are associated with it. If you bought already don't give this phone to your children below 10 years. No ethical and money minded Online shopping sites like Flipkart will sell anything to people. A setback to online shopping. Don't buy cheaper. Cheaper is not always better. You have to compromise quality and at the cost of your health.
1|i bought mi4i on 4ih june .this shit gets hanged on every app. it hangs 2 to 3 times a day . today it hanged and switched off automatically and did not on for an hour . this is a bullshit. please don't purchase this product.
1|I purchased a new Mi 4i yesterday from Flipkart. However the phone is getting heated for normal usage like calls and whatsapp. Phone quality is very bad. My money is lost for a low quality phone. Please don't buy Mi 4i - it has heat problem for normal usage.
1|i purchased this 2 months back since then its been a headache nothing else only thing which is impressive is its user interface problems 1. ringtone volume lowers, automatically (advance technology :P ) 2. it wipes up almost half internal storage and we are left with very little 3. now in recent technology advancement of this phone is that this phone does not charge at all buy lumia phone instead, they are 1000s times better than this trash, i am gonna drill it i am gonna break this with hammer i hate this phone they are copying iphone, yes it is a copy and a very bad copy i think they are just selling those rejected pieces in india which were not returned elsewhere
1|5 Star for Flipkart for Response but 1 star for product...0 is not available hence...fuddu mobile...no sound...not hear able from 4-5 distance when it rings...Heating lots..3 time replaced but issue same..do not purchase this bullshit.
2|I got this gadget 3 days back on july 3rd, Friday. I felt very happy after seeing the product and camera clarity. Even the Battery backup is good but when I have installed Temple Run 2 and played for 15 min......Then it started emitting heat heavily. I haven't experienced this even when I played this game in my old phone Xolo A 500. No Other problems except this heating issue. Those who are not interested in playing games can buy this phone without any doubt.
1|I'm using this product for past 10 days. There are several cons. So it's better I start with cons. CONS --------- 1) Heat - After I received this product I put it on charging. Phone started to heat up like a frying pan. Thankfully I was notified of an update. After installing that update heat issue started to become less prominent. I thought now I can use this product. I was soon proven wrong. This phone heats up while browsing. Try answering a call longer than 5 min. You'll feel the heat. I have to hold it 5 to 10 m away from my ear to continue a call. Don't know what to do with this phone. Should I carry an Ice Pack to use this phone? Memory - free memory after boot is around 800 MB. Not sure why MIUI needs so much of ram. Storage - Do not understand why they can't offer SD Card slot. 12GB internal storage is too low. Inability to disable crapware - you can't disable apps you don't like. So live with them. Convoluted software - a lot of menu options are hidden. E.g., storage is under Additional settings menu option. PROS: Battery backup - Getting a decent day long backup. Display - good vibrant display. Connectivity - both sim support 4G. In summary this phone is only for show. Excessive heat makes this product unusable.
2|I m using his phone over 1 n half moth (as replaced once) 1. Speaker volume very low. when i m playing songs or talking over hands-free mode, from maximum value the speaker volume reduces to an inaudible low level automatically after 3 to 4 seconds. i replaced my first phone thinking particular handset problem but second set also has same problem so waiting for next replacement. 2. i m not a gamer or continuous browser with data or wi fi on but battery drains out faster. with moderate use only 16 to 20 hrs of life, seems like 2100 mah not 3100. 3. Mic problem. no audibility on other side. 4. wifi, blue tooth n network connectivity is poor....... dont seems like higher version of BT, 4G n wi fi. 5 Screen blinks automatically bet two apps 15 to 20 times without touching anything 6. user available memory very less Good Camera (front n rear) super display slim, light weight n best design cool features
2|Heating too much even i am using just whatsapp and after update it looses its functionality, the web browser is too slow after update only buy if you are happy too keep a heated phone in your pocket
1|dont ever buy this product.only specs but no performance the phone get heated up and drains alot.and regarding customer support its the worst.u wont get any spare parts as they dont have any back up of spare parts. i m waiting for a spare parts for now 25 days now and the sc doesnot even give proper replies neither give expected time for repair...after buy you u will only repent.better to go with other brands dan this.atleast they hav good customer support.
1|phone is heating rapidly ; worst battery backup; no extra sd card no removable battery; if you purchase this mobile youhave to purchase immediatly power banks orelse no use; no vedio calls ;above all camera quality is good;keeping simcards in mobile is different, NOT GOOD, don't expect much about this mobile
2|Heating Issue, Sometimes it heat up like you can cook food over it. otherwise its above okay phone... better compare with other company mobiles too.
2|I purchased this phone just few weeks back. There are lot of problems - 1. Phone gets heated very quickly 2. Poor battery life 3. Very much frustrating - Mobile data with aircel 3g does not work even after correct settings. The icon shows its connected but there is no speed. Every time I need to enable and disable mobile data. Poor product. WASTE OF MONEY!! Please be careful while purchasing this phone as my friends are also facing the same issue
1|Delivery was in time , Mobile looks great . But gets heated up and you an make an omlette . Also voice clarity on speaker is pathetic
1|Xiomi has taken Indians for granted and have released this product. The image quality from camera in Low light is pathetic lot of granuels, it is decent during normal lightings. If phone is operated in multi task mode, it generates enough heat using which a small cloth can be pressed [ironed]. Other features of the phone is normal when compared to other devices in the same price band. Strong recommendation, to not buy this phone, device heating is very severe and may cause damage to the user.
1|the worst phone i ever had. No display, bad sound.... itys display damage within 16 daYS... ti just to tell you plzzz dont buy that product of xiaomi...its a wastage of money.
2|worst phone. heats very fast. back camera - very poor quality, looks loike only 3.2 MPXL battery dains very fast while gaming and camera usage. sunlight sensor is not working properly. \
1|lot of lagging problem. completely hangs sometimes after installation of new apps. output of sound is very low. unable to hear when the phone rings
1|I purchased this phone 15 days back. after updating to MIUI to 6.5.5.0. this phone started giving problem in front camera. front camera is getting dull in low light. I am writing everyday e-mails to customer care but they have stopped responding me after giving five to six solution expariments. I saw there are lot of customers like me facing problems a Xaiomi customer community page. I advise people please let Mi fix this problem then only plan to buy this phone. internal memory of this phone is also very low (16GB) which can be good for beginers. customer service of Mi is very poor.
1|Pros: * Great Full HD LCD screen. * Pretty decent battery life. * MIUI6 has some interesting detailed features like a vibrate alert when a call is picked-up, ability to turn on flashlight without unlocking the phone etc. Cons: * Goes off network after sometime in standby. This is a critical issue. Nobody will be able to reach you, so you will NEED to activate missed-call alert. * Charging does not work randomly. A restart is needed. This is another major issue. * MIUI is not refined compared to Google's original Android UI as seen on Nexus and Moto X/Moto G/Moto E. * Laggy and jerky UI performance. * Not great value-for-money when the competition is Moto G. * Has only Qualcomm Quick Charge 1.0 which does charging at 5V 2.1A which is an expected feature in 2015. Nothing outstanding like Mi 4's Qualcomm Quick Charge 2.0. * Beware of Flipkart's 30-day return policy. There is no such thing, at least on this item - so I was told by the call-centre. Overall: Too many random critical issues makes this phone a no buy. However the phone works and is good for the money for those looking for a Full HD display to watch movies and it has decent battery-life.
2|i am writing this review after using one month.this is not what i had expected.its average phone.its rear camera is good.look wise awosome. but major drawback is its battery which drain very fast. heating is another major problem with it.overall its average phone.i will not reccomend to buy it
1|Dont even think to buy this phone. With very little usage as well, the phone temp goes beyond 40. I understand that most of the smart phone gets heated up but this is beyond imagination. Worst part is, it emits heat from the speaker side and not from back which means you cant touch it to your ears if you have to speak longer on the phone. With latest update as well, issue remains unresolved. If heating was not an issue (Which is a serious concern to handle) then phone is good. Camera quality is outstanding but if you start playing heavy games, it will lag a bit. Strongly discouraged to pick this up.
1|I have bought this phone 10 days ago and the only problem is that it heats up while navigation on maps, calling and using internet. Mi claims that they have given update which reduces the heating but i have done that as well with no avail. I sent an email, to which they responded immediately, and suggested some ways to check temperature and some process to remove cache but that too doesnt help. the temperature can range between 27-47 degrees. I have written to them again but no reply yet. I am sure they will come up with some replacement policy to take care of this issue. They should if they need to sell for long-term. Otherwise, the phone is a GEM. very light weight, good battery, excellent camera, nice resolution (all as per specs). Internal memory can be a issue for those who dont delete their data often and use FB and Whatsapp heavily.
2|In 2 weeks of purchase screen had a crack and the menu buttons were not responding. I don't believe it is a gorilla glass.Change the LCD screen cost Rs 4000. The service center don't have the stock of the LCD screen. I'm waiting for last 3 weeks. Still they say that they have not received the LCD screen stock, and phone is with the service center. Please do not buy the Mi products.
1|I bought Mi4i in the last week's sale. Flipkart was very quick in delivery (got it next day itself) instead of 4 days they mentioned when placing the order. Good job flipkart. Havent played around much on this phone, but all my attempts to sync with google contacts has failed. Tried various things in the phone, looked up multiple posts on the web, but looks like the MIUI has blocked access to google contact. I have seen similar posts on the MIUI forum as well. 2nd problem is that there is no user manual available as of now. Too bad MI. So, prospective buyer's, beware of these problems.
1|Wish I hadn't revised my ratings so soon.. My newly purchased Xaomi Mi 4i is facing speaker issues now.. Its speaker has stopped functioning.. have to take it to service center for a possible software issue.. I am deeply dissatisfied with the product ! X( Comments Edited: After Xaomi guys called me up and helped me out with the settings and also, I received a mail from the Airtel CEO owning up to the increase in call drops as an airtel failure, I believe I am satisfied with the phone now. Worthwhile buy at such comparable price. Thanks team for taking up the issue with such promptness ! :) PS: In case you guys are noticing, kindly add a feature in the music tab, to sort the songs through albums or singers.. currently it's a mess out there ! Good to have feature ! Earlier Comments: This one although has a fabulous front camera for selfie lovers and a smooth interface, what put me off this phone within three weeks of buying it is the incessant network issues.. once the network is lost, I have to manually reboot the phone to get the network back and even the internet connectivity has not been up to the mark.. first one week this phone was a breeze but after that it has been nothing but a major pain.. I regret having spent 13K in a Chinese phone !! :\ And I owned an S3 before this.. I wish I had rather spent money on a well known brand as there is a reason they are called a Brand ! PS: Others might or might not be facing this issue.. This was purely a personal experience !
2|If possible I would suggest increase your budget and go for One plus One. The extra 3-4 grand's would be worth paying for.Mi4i has lot of operational issues and gets heated very fast. Xiomi has seemed to lost it by selling Mi4 for 15 grands and launching Mi4i for 14 grand. I don't see the point here 3 months from launch of Mi4i the company slashes the prices for Mi4.
1|At first i gave good review and rating but i am sorry for the brothers and sisters who bought because of that Phone was running good for 1 Month and 2 days after my return policy expired it began to show its true face Around 11:40PM Charge was 100% and when i woke up at 6:30AM next day i found my phone dead and non responsive. I tried to charge my phone but it was not charging. I took the issue with both MI and Flipkart. The issue got solved After 3 Days First with battery and charger. Now Speaker I was talking with my friend with speakers on suddenly i heard noise was coming out of speaker and i thought call quality is bad and ended the call when the same person was calling, to my shock i realised that speaker was gone and i can only hear noise instead of ring tone I Do not recommend this product to anybody This the second incident I was using LUMIA 520 for 2Years which did not have any issue even till Now. So please buy some other phone which is good.
1|phone has heating problem and softweare lags. Its got over heated when idle and while calling its getting heat. Very poor quality and sound quality is also very poor and not able to hear ringer.
2|it is better to buy in winter so by playing game we keep warm...........phone not more then for 1 year like (likho pheko pen).........................................better to buy Indian brand so u can contribute in Make In India
1|Please don't buy this kind of waste products...I purchased on 11 May after one moth 17 june mobile is not at all working touch is not working.I Observed continuous hanging.Abnormal heating..sound is very lesss..I sincerely urge u people not to buy this product waste of money.Try to understand my pain in my words.
1|I had purchased this phone on may 28 got that phone after 1 day. I have installed a Game "Real Racing 3" play it @ home it was running awesomely but while travelling (or with play music in background) I face the same game run like a slideshow. 1 big and noticeable issue is that one day I spoke someone for 20 minute.After completion of my call I saw my mobile display got blinking continuously.after 20 minute there is no display on the screen. and from left corner I saw there is some water in the screen it may sweat inside the screen. it enter in to the screen from the front side only. be careful if you already purchased this.
2|Phone heats up during calls and charging. RAM available 35% to 45% only 700 MB to 900 MB against 2 GB. Battery backup equal to 2m00 MAh compared to 3120 MAh. Software not user friendly. Front camera quality - very good
2|Pros- 1. Display : One of the best I've seen. 2. Look and feel - Great Cons- 1. Poor Battery - For a 3100 mAh, the battery drains out pretty quickly. The phone doesn't even lasts a day with moderate use and completely low brightness. 2. Slow Processing. - I do not have any games installed but even then the simple apps also open up slowly 3. Speaker Volume - Very poor. Mine is a faulty product for which I asked the Flipkart to replace. But they didnt and simply said that the dealer has rejected my request. The Flipkart First is just a way of taking your money. You dont get any extra privileges of being a flipkart first customer
2|I bought it this mobile and using from last 1 month and I found the big problem is almost every app doesn't work properly, it stops app automatically for example the lock app after few minutes it does force stop. there are other good device available in this price. I thought it was good device but once you use it you'll know about the problems.
2|So this being my first smartphone I will not be able to compare it with other smartphones Pros a good display, handy phone, pretty good camera Cons 1.Battery life is very less the fast charging is a gimmick as any phone will charge 40% in 60 minutes Plus the battery is 3030 instead of 3120 as shown on flipkart 2. The speaker phone volume is very low. Infact very Low 3. Could be better if the memory would be expandable.
1|Bought this phone 3 weeks back. Initially experienced some low volume issues but later with an upgrades this problem is sorted out. Camera is 13 Meg with great quality of picture but it's good only for stand still photos. Small movement in object will cause distortion. Touch has got some serious issues like some times doesn't work. While taking the phone out of pocket to pick up a call some times automatically rejects the call. Apps window traversing has got some issues. With multiple apps some times going back to previous window jump to another app unexpectedly. Good battery backup of 2 days - this is appreciated compared to other products in market. Lots of signal issues, many times caller get response as switched off /not reachable even if I am able to make a call / access data / receive SMS same time. Xiaomi should focus more on stability while dealing first time with Qualcomm chip sets.
1|Hi, I purchased Mi4i on the launch date, it worked fine for 2 weeks(very low usage), post that it prompted to install software update by Xiaomi, which i did and after couple of days, Phone is overheating, which is simply unbearable, quite scared to use this phone any more. between this my Phone is dead now, cant start/switch on, if this is the condition of a mobile within few weeks of purchase how can this last for a year. not worth the money, though there are few rich features, stability and quality should be priority. I am going to place the return, hopefully Flipkart acknowledges this and dont flea trusted customers.. looks like Xiomi has not learnt anything from their past performance issues over previous models :( Thanks Nagaraj
2|Camera quality is very bad as it comes to 13 mp camera . Also the pixels splitswhen zoomed . Not worth for 13 k
1|Network Issue, Sound and Heat Issus Its got over heated when idle and while calling its getting heat. Very poor quality and sound quality is also very poor and not able to hear ringer. There is network issue, webpages is not loading, every time loading error coming. battery life also very poor. Kindly return money. No replacement. ASAP
1|This is another flop show. I nought the phone which had display issue, which flipkart promptly replaced. The replaced phone is another big head ache. It heats up badly and just after using 10 minutes the phone starts to hang!!. Whats the use in shelling out such big amount and creating so much hoopla!! This is absolute waste!!
1|This product was bought as a gift for my friend birthday, but unfortunately it was not working properly after the gift was opened. Have been 1 week since there is nobody to come and pick up the courier for replacement. The technical team is so busy that they only give time for call for resolving hardware issue over phone. Am i suppose to carry the non working phone all the time with me and be free for them. Kindly help us get the new piece as the left side of the Touch screen is not working properly. The mobile is still in packed condition.
2|Hugo Barra said that this product took them 18 months to get everything right..alas, so much time was wasted when the final output was tagged as "flagship" for India but turned out to be just a mid ranger with some serious heating issues. Right off the bat, I would say that Mi4i has hands down the 'best' 1080p 5' display I ve ever seen on a smartphone below INR 20K, and not to mention the camera is almost similar to the Mi4 and the Mi3... But the excitement ends there and then itself. Qualcomm thought of putting Mediatek to shame when they introduced the 615 Octa with 64 bit support...but really, its not their cup of tea and they should accept it that even if they try to improve it with a 2nd Gen, their best selling Quad Cores (S4 Pro,800 and 801) outperform this chip in almost each department. I even think that the S600 and S410 are nearly as good as the 615..anyway performance aside, heating is yet another issue which only confirms this theory that the design and the processor do not make a perfect match. As far as software is concerned, MIUI 6 performs as expected, but the skin is so heavy that I think a 2GB RAM is a must for lag free experience..but then again the processor doesn't compliment the UI and its all a very drab experience after prolonged usage. Even though it running 5.0.2, only glimpses of material design occur and feels like MIUI doesnt want to do anything remotely close to what Google wants to deliver through Lollipop. But that can be ignored surely. As for the other cons, the speaker volume is too low for my liking and 16GB storage can be a problem for some. Also I observed my proximity sensor doesnt work half the time. I had hoped that Xiaomi would offer a great replacement for the Mi3 in form of Mi4i because I have always believed in them and their ideology..But there is no denying that the Mi3 was simply the best phone that Xiaomi had ever made for such a compelling price, and now I am sure that they will never achieve that again after using the Mi4i.
1|As I said try the Latest and Greatest in Technology world for throw away price , Worth for Money . I am a Great Fan of APPLE , I have APPLE IPHONE 2 , IPHONE 3, 3GS , 4 ,4S , 5 , 5S but before going for IPHONE 6 I was not ready to pay huge price . With lot of android phones in market , I thought to give a try with cheapest yet the full future rich mobile , so that If I do not like non APPLE mobile I can keep this for playing games . But to my surprise this XIAOMI MI4I surpass my expectation . PROS: 0) Battery is excellent even by continuous usage of 12 hrs batter shows 30% still remaining. 1) It has MIUI equivalent to Apple . 2) Capacitive touch is full responsive. 3) Hi Gamut display 1920x1080 is bright and brillient color experiance 4) Speed of Mobile with 8 Core QUALCOMM SNAPDRAGON 615 is Awsome 5) I did not test the 802.11 AC WIFI , I do not have a AC router 6) I did not test the 4G speeds 7) Camera Photo clarity is Awsome 8) Display shows Brillient color with 100% brightness CONS: 1) May get easily damages as if it falls down accidentally ( not robust built ) 2) Phone is too much Plastic look , Even I do not expect Metal case for the price I pay . 3) Back Camera comes above and over the Plastic this is annoying as they did not consider this while designing .
1|Pros: Small in dimension, less in weight, great display and Camera is ok Cons: Highly unstable.. Battery drains fast, Available RAM is very less, performance is not great, heats up quickly, MIUI is heavy and its features are having enough bugs..
1|I have bought this mobile on May 21st in a flash sale & delivered on 25th of May. When i have checked this product came to know that there is a problem in the storage (i.e. Free space of 800 MB). Whereas the product is a 16GB stoage device & came with 800MB. Raised a return request in Flipkart on the same day the product is delivered. Got a call from Flipkart and they have accepted my request. Confirmed to deliver a new prodcut on or before 5th June. Received a replacement product on 1st June. List that i have checked after opened the package: 1. Checked whether there is any damage in the product (Exterior) 2. Storage (Memory availability 10GB free space out of 16 GB) 3. Data connection & Network settings Overall felt satisfied, atleast this time I got a perfect product. Here the problem comes, After all the lights been switched off in my room, a small amount of light is leakaged beneath the menu & back button of Xiaomi Mi4i. There is a panel gap in the mobile & it is not properly fitted. Once again I have raised a return request on 2nd of June. Today I may get a call fom Flipkart customer care & have to wait for the reponse. Here I'm totally disappointed in using Xiaomi Mi4i.
1|One and Only Camera lets this great brands highlighted phone DOWN. At a price of 13000 and seeing a camera quality like Redmi 1s ,thats the most disturbing thing in this phone.
2|Using the phone for over a week and already raised request to change this piece with a new one. Flipkart not Exchanging the defective piece and recommending work-around. Reason 1: The Ringer sound is too low to be heard in a place of commotion Reason 2: The major issue is speaker ; the sound is very low even you keep the volume at max Reason 3: Noticed call dropping for few instances even the recipient is sitting in few yards Others please add your inputs related to call dropping issue as am not sure whether it is happening due to any other reason Software Bug: The Screen gets locked till the other person disconnects the call
1|Dear Seller/Flipkart The phone is gud in looks and specification, but I didnt got the Headpone in the box and also the quality of charger and data cable is not gud..... Hoping to get a headphone
1|overheating. not for multi purpose. no earphone with this. poor battery backup. 3g internet work like 2g
1|Phone is overall good.Only disappointing things are 1.Low speaker volume (many times you may not be able to hear the ringtone) 2.VIDEO CALLING feature is not available.very disappointing.You must have good quality internet connection everywhere to make video call through skype etc... 3.After updating software of 800MB ...various apps like music,WPS office,gallary not detecting files in memory card..Unfortunately no help or customer care is available to sort out such issues. 4.Search internet you will get hundreds of problem people facing with Mi phones.
1|I purchase a mi4i and my review is below. Not a great phone speaker doesnt works. Hanging issue Heating issue Battery is not so great. Camera is not easy click Waste of your money if you choose this mobile I am trying to return my mobile and dissatisfied customer. Regards JP.
2|Mobile is Good but this display touch screen ODI glass is worst quality. I bought this phone after 4 days, i slipped from my pocket just 1 feet fell down touch screen and navigation (home,back,option) buttons are not working. They show the video for mi4i lab test not trust that test they drop the mobile hardly but that mobile is not broken. This is not suitable for rough handlers. (one thing you buy the tempered glass stick on it then use this mobile)
1|i am using this phone from 20days, when you get incoming calls phone goes in silent mode, means you didin't hear Ring, During call phone restart automatically, apps stopped many times. i complained 3 times till today. first time they told me to hard reset the phone, second time they told me to factory reset the phone, now i will get their call tomorrow 30may15. Only good in mi4i , screen quality is good ,
1|Its not so good phone mi 4i and the space of memory is low and no external memory card apply on this phone, its hanging problem continuous and i am not like this mobile phone mi 4i
1|get this phone today. This phone is like buying a frying pan. It heated after 5min of use and you can't ear. So my request please don't go for this mobile.
1|As per the trend,flipkart was a step ahead in delivering before the expected date. A brilliant masterpiece the phone is.Extremely beautiful display,nice camera,lag free operation,and no heating effects(two updates solved it nicely).However i was BITTERLY SHOCKED,when in dark i saw LIGHT LEAKING from below the back touch key.! This type of POOR assembly is NOT EXPECTED from a Flagship device. Have filed for a replacement,,will update u soon.!!
2|Few things I like about the 4i: Shape Display Camera But these alone do not make a good phone. The phone lacks in more vital areas which are: Software - phone hangs numerous times Earpiece - poor sound Ringer volume - I miss practically all incoming calls Cooling - despite updating with the new software....it still heats up Network reception - despite good network by the provider, this phone has low/no signal
2|1. Major Heating issue on the ear piece during the call. Ear piece getting heated within a minute time during the call. 2. Network reception is poor, as the data drops very frequently. If I use the same sim card on other devices then there are no such problems. Webpages are not loading sometime due to connectivity. 3. Battery life is very poor compared to the Redmi Note 3G, even though it shares the same battery spec. Initiated Return and Got a replacement handset from Flipkart due the above stated issues and problem still exist on the new handset also.
2|Phone is good. Drawback: Heating issue. Suggestion: In today scenario if anyone buy a 2K phone then it get headphone along with the phone on the other end I brought 13K phone and didn't get headphone. Its really very strange and it should be given by the company.
2|The Delivery was awesome at very speedy and in just 2 days of ordering it. Like everyone i was way much excited for this new phone for it has great specs but the happiness and excitement didn't last longer. Pros : 1. Great Phone at great this price . 2. Great Specs. 3. Screen is good. 4. the camera is awesome. Cons. 1. OS [ MIUI ] is very slow in making calls and disconnecting them. 2. Incoming call vomlume decrease within seconds and same prob with music player and all else. 3. Incoming call appears after few sec. 4. sometime changing themes makes incoming call disappear. 5. phone heats up a bit. 6. there are many bugs right now which needs to be fixed.. Please don't buy this if you don't want to suffer. Go for Asus Zenfone 2 way better with specs and performance.
1|Delivery process was bad. Looks like ekart delivery process is degrading. Phone is Bad, not as expected, touch responsiveness is not good. Heats up a lot. Battery is not as expected, cant even match Mi3 performance. I had Mi3 in past and it is much better then Mi4i. Power and volume buttons quality is cheap, loosely fitted buttons from corner is feels like loosely fitted buttons and shakes while you touch. Over all exterior finishing is bad, you can feel camera is not properly positioned. Built-in speaker volume is very low. Hardly audible from 10 feet distance. Very very very disappointed. :( Seems they have manufactured this phone in a hurry. I strongly recommend you to try Yureak or go with Mi3 then purchasing Mi4I.
2|Phone heats up a bit on charging, using WIFI, while using 3G. Even I dont play games, phone heats up just beside Camera Area only. Battery lasts easily for full day Phone is very light weight. Handy. User Interface is Awesome. Worth for your money. Excellent Camera
2|Using the mobile for last one week. Though display, camera and response is ok, but the instrument gets too hot while charging and thereafter gets dead. the screen goes off and do not respond for hours. So far used only basic phone functions, no gaming, net surfing, multi tasking, etc.
2|Got this on the flash sale day, I have to say i'm disappointed. 1. Minimal phone use causes the phone to warm up 2. No "Extreme Performance" as advertised. the transitions stutter and the phone hangs. Games that my 1yr old motoG handled with ease crash on this one with entry level frame rates. 3. Battery is pretty average, maybe the heating and stutter causing the battery drain. Updated to the latest software after wiping cache + wiping data, followed the recommended trouble shooting steps, but no improvement. Display is very good, very crisp, but that doesnt help at all when it hangs and stutters. Overall - Choppy performance and warming up. device not recommended. P.S. I can feel my thigh sweating up when I keep it in my pant pocket, hoping this would happen in winters to get some warmth :D
1|guys do not buy products from Flipkart, they take customer's for granted. the returns for which they say are easy and fair is a total bluff. It seems, who so ever given Mi4i more than 2 star are Flipkart Employees. Because we have not seen quality of this product more than 1 star. I have faced issue with photo Picture quality is so bad, as you can't see exact color which you clicked actually , Red color show Bright Pink, Video sound quality is like, low grade small speaker phone, you can't recognize voice of person. Its a proper Chines low grade phone. With all of the above issue, Flipkart showing so much non-adjustive attitude with customer. As if they just want to get rid of quantity of these phones. Flipkart is all fake, over televisions they say "No question ask return policy", where as we already adjusted with Filpkart showing our phone to one MI authorized center to another, use all settings provided by Flipkart support executives. If still issue is not resolved, they should stopped buffing customer, Rs.13000 is not small amount. I have bought so many products with Fliptkart just in misconception Flipkart has some professional standard but they are behaving like cheap seller. If they don't listened to regular customer then i doubt they do something for New Customer. Customer support is fight with Seller for customer support, not pressuring on customer to keep product whatever they sold. I am not Happy with Product quality and even not with Flipkart Customer support. Now on I refrain myself buying anything from FlipKart. They ruined my experience with spoiling my money. So called Loyal customer.
1|AWFULLY LOW VOLUME OF SPEAKER, CAMERA FC WHEN CLICKING STILL WHILE RECORDING VIDEO, UNEXPECTED LAG AND HANGING WHEN 3-4 APPLICATIONS ARE USED, HEATS AT TOP END WHILE LISTENING MUSIC OR USING CAMERA. NEVER EXPECTED SUCH N LET DOWN BY XIAOMI WHOSE ALMOST ALL PRODUCTS I OWN WITHOUT ANY COMPLAIN
1|Phone worked fine for just 2 weeks and later on failed in its access to apps menu or call menu or any of the menus with failure message 1.Unfortunately, System launcher has stopped message 2.Battery gets very much heated during charging and data usage 3. In rare case system reboots while on call encountered 3 times Using an high end Sony Xperia I switched to MI feeling great in its features, look and price but this embarrassed me a lot. Please check the system properly once you buy it
1|Overall the phone is good within the price range but within just 15 days I had faced 4 problem; 1) Battery is not getting charged over 50%. I am in touch with flipkart to find its resolution. Once the charger gets re-plugged it starts charging over 50% but not at the first instance :( 2) Ph has 2 GB ram but not so good at it.. Even moderate games like subway surfer is getting stuck sometime 3) Mi Ui interface is good but the calendar shows declined event. If you are a g-mail calendar lover, this phone is not for you 4) Mi website is offering free screen guard but when you place the order nither you would get the free screen guard nor you would get any update from Mi team.. So better to buy the screen guard with ph itself...
1|phone is nice , have good features BUT biggest draw back is heating issue.. phone heats up like hell. if any one like to buy a hot phone then buy mi4i.. :D
1|The issues with this phone are: 1. Heating problem while charging and talking for long hours. 2. Its not able to connect with mobile data when the apps try to access it. It works fine with Wifi. 3. Camera quality is ok. 4. Very low speaker volume.
1|Guyzz I ordered a mi 4I and after delivery when I opened the box I was completely shocked as it was not carrying my phone, and there were two pieces of cinthol soap, all my money wents into vein. Don't buy please.
1|I got some issues with this product. Heating problem just in 10 minutes to click images. Picture quality is very bad. Zooming problem with picture. Flipkart service with this product is very bad. Need a pin to carry with you so that you can change the sim. I am getting more on this charging problem.
1|Totally Disgusting phone ever, don't go for this. Phone temperature goes to 46. and battery stops charging.
2|I have purchased this phone on first flash sale , lookwise it was nice but when i start to use this phone it become heat after 10 minutes ... get hoter after 20 minute it was the first concern and second was Battery life as per Xiaomi its battery is more than 3000 mah. but practically it is working like 800 mah just 2 hours on screen display . presently I am Using MI3 with same battery features and its working well , by the way i called to flipkart customer care at 12 may and at 13 may they agreed to replace then story became to start flipkart send me a message regarding scheduled pickup at 15 may and no any executive came receive they scheduled my pickup 16 may ,no one came 17 may, even no one came till 20 in spite of that i was was daily reminded the the pick of same day it was a mental harassment now i am waiting for new and replaced MI4I. hope new one will be fine. one more thing i would like to write in spite of above problems everything is fine in MI4i, both cameras are really good , display is fine , Processor is not very good but its like OK. its will be a good deal if above issues will get resolved .
1|Battery is very poor after 3 hours 75% battery down ,& i have 3G data plan but its not work properly so please be aware from this phone 3g plan Speed as 2g i want to return this phone but flipkart not responding. phone heating during the handset uses regular 30 minutes.
2|1st model i faced audio problems on call some quirky sound is coming from the speaker so replaced with new handset other that that no issues In replacement handset I faced two prolems 1. Volume and Power button is so hard to press and its finishing is not good (Which was good in the first phone) 2. Right bottom of the display below menu buttons display light is coming out of the screen.. noticable only in night in dark room...I asked for replacement Customer care guys said its KNOWN ISSUE some handsets will have this issue which was accepted by company itself .(Which is also good in the first phone) Other than that Phone is Good. Flipkart packaging and delivery also good.
1|My usage is very high. whenever I use the mobile phone more then 5 minutes its heating, if I continue using & it's over heating. some times i use wifi to update the apps that time also i am facing heating problem apart from this Mi4i is value for money. heating, over heating
1|JUST GOT MY PHONE A FEW DAYS BACK . HANGING AND HEATING ISSUES. CPU TEMPERATURE HAS GONE UPTO A WHOPPING 65-67 DEGREE CELSIUS. FLIPKART HAS RAISED ITS HANDS AND SAID THAT THEY ARE HELPLESS AND THEY HAVE FORCIBLY CLOSED MY COMPLAINT WITHOUT RESOLUTION. NEVER EVER BUY THIS PRODUCT AND NEVER BUY ANYTHING FROM FLIPKART. TESTIMONIALS CAN BE HAD @ 09953141516. I WOULD HAVE RATED THIS PRODUCT AND FLIPKART "ZERO" BUT THAT SCALE IS NOT AVAILABLE BUT ITS A BIG ZERO.
1|Please don't get mi 4i product because i am already perched and facing many problem like hanging problem while installing many application . another one while i am playing 30MB game that's generate heating problem after 5 min. and after that you can not hold on your hand also while playing 30MB games it's hanging problem issue are occurred . Battery Problem also are main issue. after 30 min 50% battery gone out . So If you want to choose that product just think about it. Flipkart also doesn't Support .
1|there is only one best xiaomi phone and it is Mi3.................................................................................................................................................................
1|very less battery back up it requires daily 5 to 6 times charging and also sound not good ,FM also not working its giving full noise .
1|This phone looking good but have technical problems. 3G internet not working properly.With 3G some application not working like google play store, website also not working getting mobile errors. with wifi working fine. I purchased for mobile internet. Battery is poor performance when using internet. Even using phone application also battery poor performance. when talking on phone or using any application getting too much heat. I am not recommend this phone.
2|I ordered this phone with full excitement and enthusiasm. It is my first order for a mobile phone online. No need to tell about specifications as already mentioned on website. I have this phone with me since three days. The phone is good but if you are in need to use 3G internet network then search any other phone. You need to reboot your phone every time for using 3G internet. After each reboot, phone will respond for 3G internet network for few minutes (around 5 minute) then again you have to reboot your phone. However, if you shift setting for 2G internet (slow one) network then phone will respond continuously. (one of the requirement for me).. Sound: The loudness of speakers is low and not clear. It is not properly audible as well as not clear for music at loudspeaker mode (one of the requirement for me). Heating: After updating software, the heating is less (but present) specially during charging, I am not game addicted so i can't say about it. Screen: It is nice and appreciable. Camera: Ok ok, as color contrast is not much good. Overall, i would say that I have wasted my number of days in waiting to purchase this phone and then updating and for getting used to it. A lot of time have been wasted to check 3G network on this phone but as i said, it does not support 3G network. (It is a 4G mobile and the best thing is, 4G network is not available in India. Why companies are launching 4G mobiles in India).
1|As per Filpcart services concern is good at last they have refunded me the money for defective Mi 4i handset/s. But not at all happy with mi 4i, In 1 month I had received 3 nos. of hand set from filpcart & all 3 hand set had a same issue (1) hand set get heated up not only whn u r charging / playing game, even if u speak for 5 min. is heats up like u r standing in a 40% direct sun. (2) The handset get hanged up for which u can't do any thing unless the battery get drain out. (3) Can't able to send SMS, even service center was not able rectify the issue. (4) Display keep on fading every know & than. I had visited the service center at Borivali, Mumbai, Maharashtra for 4 times in a month to resolve my above issue & I was shocked to see 6 out of 10 client were having issue with Xaomi Mi hand set which were less than 6 month old.
2|Received phone in first sale.....Extremely well built and beautiful phone. But experienced frequent hanging between applications, abrupt shutdown of applications and complete shutdown of phone on 5 occasions during use of just 5 days. The phone also completely hanged on 2 occasions, even didn't respond when charger was connected and started only once the battery got completely drained off. Only plus point is built quality, finish and Battery which is relatively good. Was using Yureka Yu for 2 months before this phone. But never found any problem with the phone...Phone gave great results with no lag whatsoever. But had changed the phone because Yureka comes with 5.5' screen and is little bigger in shape. Guys if you can manage with bigger screen phones, I advise Yureka Yu. Its beautiful, has great response and is cheap also.
2|1st problem - Heating It can be ignored by me as i don't play much games and if xiaomi and flipkart say that if battery temperature goes upto 50, its fine, then absolutely fine 2nd problem - Volume calls come i dont come to know. Vibration not strong enough. Now new problem, when i play the music volume too low. switch on the phone, its fine. Use it for some time. it's too low at times Another thing. u play music at highest volume, say 15 turn it to 8 and place phone on ur ears to hear the sound. Pictures in dark r too bad. if u click with flash or torch on, yellow images Pros - Sunlight display and quick charging Nice pictures in bright day light
2|Hanging during play game (Not proper proccessor and ram). Hanging problem during call. not show properly which person u calling. Ringtone volume very low. I am rating only for Front camera.
1|I bought this phone yesterday. Shipment was before delivery date. I dropped phone just 1 feet above ground and display cracked. While using phone I felt lag in operations. I have Zenphone 5 which have same spects and better display compare to Mi. I mean touch is smooth and lo lag at all. I personally don't feel much worth for this phone.Go for zenphone5 rather. I am using 2 zenphones from past 1 yr and no issue at all.
2|Pros: (i) Brilliant display. (ii) Good Aspect ratio. Cons: (i) Will heat up if you play games and use youtube or any other games more than 10 mins. (ii) Frequent reboots. Not sure if other are also facing same issue. (iii) Some apps like Facebook, Flipkart are not loading up. (iv) Volume is very less. Even if you are on speaker, it is sometime not audible. Final Conclusion: At the same price lot of other phones are available with more stable operating system. It is better to be away from this phone as they are promising more and giving less.
2|In a single word i can say it's wonderful, but i am not happy with the phone which i have received. there is some problem in charging, it's not getting charged.
2|After using of 10 days I am scripting this Pros: Display is good Very handy Interface is good Build quality is good Cons: Heating problem Voice is very low when ever incoming and out going calls too The main problem I faced in this device is heating. Still now I am unable to use the phone for calling more than 10 min. I am using the speaker phone every time if the call is more than 5 min too. The problem was persistent even I downloaded latest updates provided by mi. Earlier, I used lumia 620. I never faced this kind of problem with that device even though if I talk more than 1 hour.
1|Pros - Good battery with normal usage - V good screen under both normal and sunlight - Good size for one handed use - Camera considering the price range - Average heating during normal use like 3G usage or calls. Gaming will heat up any phone Cons - Speaker sound output is horrible- most of the times cant hear the ringing if its in slightly loud ambient noise like a street or if your tv is on - Phone appears slow in everything compared to my Google nexus 4(which is 3 yrs old tech) - If you are used to stock android experience like Nexus series or Motorola, MIUI will be a big let down. - RAM management is a disaster, am sure due to MIUI Overall its a good choice in the price range. However having said that we purchase and trust Flipkart because of its excellent return/replacement policy apart from the pricing. In my case I wanted to return it, because being an avid biker its unusable as I cant detect the phone ringing whenever I am on the road whereas my Nexus does. But they refused flatly. Then what is the point of buying something online without even checking it out personally.
2|Bought the phone on first day's flash sale. The phone looks good in specs perspective, but, if you talk for more time for single call you will feel the phone getting heated. Overall, the averge phone. Given the price bracket at which the Xiaomi sells, the phone its ok to be bought if you feel that you can ignore the heating issues.
1|NEW review - Right half of the screen is blackish if u see in low brightness...looks like some problem in the screen. OLD review- looks are very good feels good in the hand no lags back camera is very good outside,,,,,above average in low light front camera is very good no lags in game-play.... there was a bit of heating on top back and front.... after update (810mb) the heating is very less....i recommend updating ram available is 1 gb (i think the other 1 gb is is reserved for the UI...and ui is very fluid) speaker vol is above average.....not very high... sound is good overall very good experience
2|After long struggle with my redmi2 I bought mi 4i . Overall its a brilliant design , camera is decent , interface is very good , battery is also compromising . When it comes to network it cannot cope up with a normal phone also . Phone is getting heat like hell !!!! afraid to keep in my pocket . out of 16gb internal memory only 9gb is available for user which is disappointing :( And when it comes to RAM out of 2GB 750mb is available and rest all acquired by running application and in my case I didn't installed any new application in my phone except whatsapp and wechat ...
1|I have ordered the Mi4i in first flash sale as of excitement by watching the features I was expecting more from this but after receiving the I got disappointment as only charger and Phone with very small user guide also unable to insert SIM as Sim card removal pin is missing ...as its Pros- Light Weight Good Battery Cons Chiniese Phone feeling as back body is low quality plastic Hanging Issue Heating Issue Screen Blinking Issue Camera quality is not good after zooming normal pictures its splits MiUI is not user friendly So my suggestions dont buy for 13k
1|Look & configuration wise phone is good but it heats like anything. People should not buy this phone at all.
1|Battery perofoprmance is not upto the mark. UIMI has lot of bugs. Facebook works well in WiFi only. Camera works well in daylight only. You will get noisy images in low light.
2|had no heating issues, battery lasts only for a day, miui6 completely overshadows android lollipop ,firm,slightly slippery, back panel is also good,screen and camera quality are ok,but at the last it is CHINESE
1|Hi... I bought this phone on 1st flash sale...very quick delivery..received on 2nd day even though it was a holiday in between. But the pone heats up even after the update. Moreover at the bottom of the phone there was a line when backlight illuminates, can see only in dark. I got replacement product, but even in that the same problem, in fact bigger line than earlier. Finally i returned the phone and got refund. Gud service flipkart team. thanks.
1|There is a major problem of heating up the phone while you keep the phone in charging,it gets heated up to 43 degrees which is unbearable to talk on call.Even when you use your mobile data 2G/3G for 20 minutes the phone heats up to 41-42 degree. Flipkart customer service people say that it is allowed till 45 degree but it is unbearable to talk on call even in 41 degree. I Suggest please don't buy this phone.
1|Very dedicated worst customer support .. I purchased Mi4I and on bad part the phone has lots of issues like Heating, volume etc; per the policies of Flipkart once the request is raised; they respond within 24 hours. Firstly; they are so dedicated that they cannot revert to customers upon receiving the complaint. Secondly; when we call to customer care; customer care associates does charity for the customers by responding to their phone calls. Response from customer care is so great that; directly and rudely communicates to customers that; For India; any phone heating capacity is 48C and if it goes beyond 48c then will take the request and will process it and so if it is less 48C you can enjoy the heat of your phone and can be used for multipurpose like IRON BOX and OVEN and they are not gonna replace it...KUDOS to FLIPKART and its policies...... .
1|awesome phone , mind blowing camera , superb processor , sexy look . No SD slot :( And White color sucks these two makes me give only 4 star otherwise it deserve more than 5
1|The heating is so bad that it is unbearable to make a call...It gets really hot close to the camera side and front top side. I don't run any games at all, even then.I have never experienced anything like this in a phone. Can MI fix this through a software update ? The device is really great..but this issue can be deal breaker any day...
1|Bought the phone on 4th May. Phone while on call heats up alot in few secs. The screen heats up a lot and and makes it uncomfortable to be on call . if you think to buy the phone by specs then please be beware .Flipkart gives excuse of return only when the battery temperatuire is more than 48degree celcius ..but the screen causes really bad heating issues . Feeling cheated by the flipkart :-(
1|Please donot buy this product . low camera quality and screen problem and people over flipkart are also not supporting the customers. Heating problem and blur camera No body from flipkart is looking into this , may be they are recovering their lose from this product .. DONOT buy this product
2|Phone is getting heated instantly and hard to keep it in shirt pocket.Sound quality is very poor also. GUI and touch is good though.
1|I'm using this phone from last 10 days and I'm getting the battery issue with this phone battery will completely discharge in max 6-7 hours without using anything. I did enter the return return request on flip-cart but they are not replace my phone and said me for go to service center. So I'm everyone can understand why we go to service center while we purchase the phone in last 10 days and then what' is the mean of 1 month replacement policy of flip cart this is total fake make fool so please take care before purchase anything from flip cart and xioami. Thanks Manoj
1|Do not buy this Phone... The space available here is not enough to describe its flaws... Trust me do not buy
1|I have purchased this phone from flipkart about 3 months ago had a great selfie camera but heat up a lot but when u upgrade it, it's ok no heating issues but after using for just 3 months it's not a good thing to buy if u don't have a service station in ur city im facing a big problem my cell is not working i have send it to mumbai in it's service station and cost of repairing it is 6210/- so im suggesting you all not to buy this cell phone if it heats up return ASAP Regards., SACHIN R PAL
2|I have purchased MI 4i phone on 22nd of June 2015 now it's not charging at all. I want to return this product its under warranty period.
1|fake phone waste of money there lost of problem in this phone all these problem start after 1 month buying of phone service center is too bad. screen thik karawo to camera kharab kar dete hai :@ :@ :( :( agar negative rate dena hota to wahi deta
1|Hi, If you want to pay and dont use the phone then only go and buy this product, From the day i have bought this phone my life is hell just changing the phone and running behind the service center. Flipkart:- When i got this phone since that time i was complaining about the phone's heating issue but got a advice of upgrading the software update and things will be fine, Which didnt happen. Still since 2 months my phone is with the service center and get a extension date mail from fllpkart that they will solve my problem....which i dont know when that will happen. I get mails from flipkart that tried reaching you over the phone but couldnt reach you....but i dont get any calls from them. xiaomi:- When you can repair your phone then why do you sell your products...in the span of 6 months my phone has been with service center 4 times....first the mother board to replaced then the camera then the PCB and now the battery...and the phone still has warms like a Induction plate...from the day i have this phone my life is a hell..no support from flipkart neither xiaomi service center. xiaomi service center:- people come wait for 4 hrs dont get there phone back and the problem still exist...evey time i go the service center at SG Infotech at Borivali location there is always people fighting for there phone. Once incident when a boy using MI4 was coming from virar was beaten up for shouting in the service center and police had to called.
1|Dear All This is the worst phone i have used till date. I purchased through flipkart on 25.05.2015. It is not working properly now. I have visited the authorised service centre in thane, they have taken for repair and on the same day i was called and told that the phone was ok now. But in their presence it was not worked and agian they have taken and informed me that it will take 20 working days. please dont buy this phone. After chinese products are chinese.
1|BAD PRODUCT
2|Hi, I have purchased Mi 4i from you but the phone that i have received was not good as its sim1 slot not working after that i have got its replacement Mi 4i but this time also the phone got heated and hanged every time and return to home screen. I am very disappointed frim your services. Plz look at this matter.....
1|Wont recommend this phone. Poor service. has an internal problem which the service center guys refuse to address. Mi service centers are even more depressing than the product. I was a Mi fan but this faulty product and even poorer service has made me lose the loyalty towards this brand. Use the money for some other purpose.
1|I am purchase my one of the worst mobile from flipkart last one week I brought this but started our problems Heating, Hanging, Battery Problems and if I order for 30 days replacement benefits no use no one fellows should resolve my problems, so don't purchase this one for our truely and kindly request. And second thing flipkart email option is cheated if sending my problems they didn't call or reply nothing they doing If I ask to call our CC they telling ya new story out server problem pls call 1 hour this is good for our CC support. So buyers pls alert and one again u fix if you purchase any product u ask or u go to showroom and purchase it . This is my harmful message to every my friends......
1|I purchased twice this phone from flipkart but both time faced same issue. When you call somebody or receive call, as call starts screen will permanently get off. You can't ON the screen by pressing power button or volume button. Means you can't cut the call or put phone on loudspeaker or use any other feature during call. When call ends, screen becomes ON automatically. No other issues are there in this phone apart from this major issue. Few of my friends have purchased this phone & they are not facing this issue. There phone is working fine. Kudos to flikart as i returned this twice successfully. It depends on your luck whether you get the defective phone (containing this issue) or not.
1|Cons: 1.Half of the Apps don't work on 3G. It behaves really erratic. even the flipkart app doesn't open up. 2. Flipkart raised its hands on exchange. They need a job-sheet from an authroised Mi service centre which is opened only on working days(u want me to take a leave to get that job-sheet??) 3. HEATTTT!!!damn it..its a frying pan.It can burn even a UFO. Pros: Camera is decent
1|HI All, Following are the problem with the Mi4i & Flipkart 1. I could not use internet as it claim to support 4G. But I got 3G and could not use internet. 2. Problem in receiving call: someone calling you & could hear bell ringing but on mobile there is not call 3. Signal prblem 4. Heating Problem: Don't do anything keep in your pocket and it will heat you up - might be Xiomi built this for Winters to keep to warm all the time. 5. Requested for the return but Flipkart denied it - don't know why?. Waiting for further response. Thanks!
2|I bought the Xiaomi mi4i. The phone worked good. I was very satisfied until there happened to be a problem with the LCD screen of my phone. I went to check out the service centre but there was no service centre at the address mentioned. Tried calling the tool-free number . but it says busy all day long. Chat support is also dislabled in the website. Conclusion - no service after sale. Forget quality of service. There is no service at all. So please verify the after sales support before you buy a mi phone. Incase the phone gives problems - God Help!
1|screen broken without any hit etc.. charger was not working from starting front camera is not working from starting till now got repaired but again camera came to same position. Typical Chinese quality
1|tHE PHONE IS CONTINUOUSLY CREATING PROBLEM.AFTER USING IT FOR FEW MINUTES EITHER THE PHONE GETS HANGED OR GETS HEATED UP. I HAVE MADE A REPLACEMENT REQUEST FOR THIS ORDER BUT IT WAS REJECTED FOR NO REASON. IT WAS REALY REGRETFUL TO BUY THE PHONE FROM FLIPKART
1|I have purchased Mi4i on 30/05/2015 with flipkart. Do not buy any products of Mi. We will not get value for our money. Warranty is not properly covered. Battery life is very bad and charging is not lasting even for 8 hours. Spares are very expensive (Motherboard is Rs.6,500/-) and immediately not available have to wait for 15 days and inspection is chargeable . I could see lot of compliant with the products at the service center.
1|flipkart has not any value for its customers.. the flipkart has delivered me a defective mobile... the phone comes with defective sim tray after using phone of 20 days camera not working properly..sound is the worst part of mobile..sim2 automatically removed in phone...the worst experience with mobile from flipkart they checked all their technical aspects of mobile even i had checked this mobile in company's service center they also told me the motherboard is not proper and u should replace it.. but they just refused my return request and now they just ignore even my email... DON'T BUY ANY COSTLY OR YOUR MOST USED DAY TO DAY ITEM...THEY WILL NEVER SEE YOUR CONCERN ABOUT THE PRODUCT AND YOU WILL SPOIL UR MONEY AS I DID WITH FLIPKART....
1|It took 25 days to deliver the phone, pathetic and more so because it was a gift. Did not expect this from Flipkart.
1|i bought this mobile from flipkart on big billion days(17th october, 2015) it was reached me on 22nd october, 2015, exactly after 1month(21st november, 2015) i got a problem on display that some sort of horizontal noisy lines on display which was fully covered my screen , my screen is blurredly visible , i used my device less than 1month as i recieved on(22nd october, 2015) but i am not able to avail the return policy because they stating that your return policy was expired as you bought on the date 17th october,2105, i am asking you people kindly resolve my problem
2|I ordered this phone at mt home with two offers, They accepted my order but cancelled the order after 1 day. I was giving this my to my father. This is very bad FLIPKART not expected from you. If you are not able to deliver product with offers given by you then please don't make your customer fool.
1|The Phone i purchased seeing its features but its a damm waste product. features are good camera but what use when there is heating problem .. u just cant keep it ur ears ..The customer service say us to download app and check the temperature say your phone is normal we cant exchange i am saying i have a heating issue ,these all have launched a strategy to show that there is no heating problem .. really dont waste money in buying cheap products .. go for the branded ... a good phone never gets heat ... that too when a unbranded launch a product they shld launch such product where there no complaints .. if u cant produce the product with lower rate y to do u try to produce and make the hard earned money go waste ... please flipkart god sake stop this fake products and mi4i is total waste ... heat heat heat ...
2|I bought Mi4i during Diwali sale few weeks back.It looked good when I opened the box, light weight, look and feel was good but as I suspected before ordering this phone - it gets stuck on one application every now and then, facing the same problem while I am writing this review, very disappointed with the product.
1|I faced heating issue, device lag and memory issue. So I reset the device to factory settings. After this lock screen is not working, it does not show any notifications in the notification bar, the device stops funtioning , apps do not respond, buttons do not work. I regret buying this useless so called smartphone. I wish we had an option to rate in neagative scale
1|Camera flash light not working... Still not getting replacement after many request.
1|overall this handset was good, Returned because was overheating while on slight use of browsing and camera. I am xiaomi user from last 1 year but they should focus more on build quality of the product. camera was awesome, processor was perfect but only heating issue spoiled everything
1|Please don't but the phone from flipkart.the phone got overheating issue as well as network problem along with unusual screen flickering. When tried to replace or refund during 30 days replacement period the flipkart executives tested the phone through some online app and refused to replace.Flipkart comes with bundles of fake promises and assurances. Please beware of the trap.i am going to file a suit against flipkart in the consumer forum.
1|This Phone not Well in all the times some times automatically turn off and on battery also poor , sturcking plublem flip kart 30 days replace promise is false pramise thay are not provideing repalce and refund , iam requsted return product in 10 times a month
1|I am facing the same issue second time within 2 months. I ordered Lenovo A6000 plus (big billion sales LoL) and Mi4i ( Diwali offer) The game goes like, 1.First they offer some discount with exchange of used mobile, once customer places the order they cancel the order or they sent to the customer destination hub and their courier partner cancels saying customer rejected the order without contacting and notifying the customer. 2.If the customer contact the customer care through mail and via phone ( both conflicts in promises) they say simply sorrys they offer they useless apologies which worth nothing. Customer care executives tells you they anyway deliver the same product and mail comes to you stating they already cancelled the order , so if you want the same product make a fresh order asking the order ID. 3.If you place the fresh order for current price , and inform them the order number which is useless again. The sent the mail you have to pay the adjusted old price. You feel comfortable. 4. At the time of fresh order delivery the courier partner insists you to pay the old price only , if you argue based on customer care executive mail. They will tell you they dont know anything and asks you to pay the current price or reject it. I faced this two times as I said , 1. Order ID : OD204177079275943000 Item: Lenovo A6000 Plus, 2. Order number OD204390703206320000. Product: Mi4i exchange Executives contacted: Kavya G,Kavitha,Kande Naresh and senior executive from banglore office Rakesh
1|I had read lot of reviews and did not buy this phone for a long time. After hearing that the heating issue was resolved after new software upgrade, i purchased the phone. Phone is not safe to use as it will definitely heat up after upgrades and it will cause burns on your ear. I am even getting bad headaches after using the phone for more than 10 mins. Phone heats up even in factory reset mode while you are speaking to some for just 10 mins. I hope this feedback will help other buyers.
1|I am a regular customer purchasing products from flipkart for quite sometime. have purchased 2 phones before and this was my third phone(mi 4i) bought in last six month from flipkart. All was fine until I made this purchase.from the day i received the product I have been facing heating issue in this phone 15 mins of usage and phone gets difficult to hold due to heat makes ur finger burn. I called up flipkart helpline and the first reply to heating complain was 45 C degrees is not abnormal.second set of instruction- Try uninstalling apps and turn of data. Smartphone coming with instructions of limited use.Then why buy at all. Next i requested them to lodge my complaint at least Now in name of complain flipkart asked me to install smart check app performed a quick 2 min test (didn't share any test result) and declared that phone is perfectly fine. at that time CPU temp app was showing temp of 45 to 48 degrees.The hands were feeling as if touched hot pot. Now i have been told to visit xiomi centre. It seems the 30 day replacement /return policy of flipkart is just an advertisement. For any one thinking of buying xiomi Mi4i please buy only if you can bear xtreme heating up.The phone just heats up in 15 min of usage. Otherwise the performance is decent but one big negative point of heating up makes it unusable. It seems buying with flipkart is playing poker you enjoy until u r lucky was lucky with my first two purchases so no issues no complains and the moment i got a product requiring some support from flipkart was nowhere to be seen.More disappointed with flipkart's response and their attitude rather than phone heating up. I would prefer spending few more bucks and buy from somewhere else but surely not from flipkart in future. I am not here to review the product or its defects as I have checked that xiomi mi 4i is a product which heats up a lot wish I would have done my homework before making the purchase.It feels like I have burned my money in purchasing this product.I also exchanged old product for mere sum of money which was in better condition that this crap i purchased. last experience- buying with flipkart is finding your luck if u get a good product u r lucky but if its defective you probably have no rescue. For people looking for xiomi Mi4i review this is a frying pan can help u boil water maybe and save LPG bills.apart from that no major issues at this price. FIVE stars for flipkarts return cheat policy!
1|Very bad phone....at this range I am not satisfied from this phone .. Phone is hanging tooo much and also some apps not working .. Running apps stopped unfortunately..
1|Mi4i Total waste of money. This phone OVERHEATS, HANGS, internet does not work on the phone. Connectivity issues...U name it...it has the problem. 15k in the Drain. for this stupid phone. Please do not buy these CHINESE PHONES. Else you will land up LOOSING THE PHONE AND THE MONEY. I DONT EVEN HAVE A REPLACEMENT from FLIPKART ON THIS.
1|I ordered mi4i on 17 Sep got it on 27 but heat after 5 min camera usage and camera is giving blur and noisy image..on replacing this piece flipkart gave me another piece...but second piece has more worst camera than first..they waste my big billion day...money and time ...but after i complaint again they gave me my money back.
1|In my deptt. all my fellows purchase this mobile and while looking at their mobile, I ordered this one. So far, product appear to be good from reviews and glimpse. Will give my views after using the product at my end. Today on 13.11.2015, the courier boy came to give the delivery of my mobile MI 4i. It was under replacement and the courier boy asked for accessory (mobile charger) that I did not bring at the location of delivery. Consequently, he refused to give the delivery and went away with the product. I would like to mention here that in the mail from the flipkart side, they did not mention that accessory should be kept ready with the replacement and it caused me a lot of embarrassement.Got disappointed, due to the mistake on the part of flipkart only.
1|Call quality very poor. Screen blinks with a blue light while playing videos. Heating issues. Tried all ringtones but sound quality is so poor in max volume too. While listening to music on headphones no alert of call or messages. While opening phone if u keep screen lock it shows a error. Smilarly so many other bugs which is not adressed and they send it to market. Such a waste phone for such a price. I would never suggest this phone to anyone.
1|Flipkart shipped phone with defective receiver. Not giving replacement as their software test tool says receiver is ok. But when i call i hear annoying vibrations in the receiver. I have to run around service center now. Also it heats a lot. I recommend not to buy this phone, its waste of money. Poor service from flipkart, selling defective and non worthy products.
1|Hate flipcart all my product are useless mi 4i & k3 note creat problem in first week both
1|Device gets extremely hot with 5 minutes and network problem, got a complete defective unit from flipkart. My friend are also using the same device with no issue. same problem even after update. I call called flipkart several times, they told me so called trouble shooting steps which i already did. And refused to replace my defective unit. Flipkart's 30 days replacement is a hoax. Do not expect any any after sale service from them. Once they get your money they are done. Really disappointing.
2|This Phone has Heating problem... I am buying a phone from flipkart..within 4days from buying my phone was automatically shutdown & do not start... This phone is not fast as 2GB RAM... If u download more application in this phone ,it will slow like 746mb RAM.. But camera & display is too good.
1|Rear camera is very poor and Internet is not working in this phone. If I create this phone as wifi hotspot and using this phone's internet in other phone then its working. Flipkart customer care executives are saying to visit to service center. The 30 days replacement service is fake. Please don't buy anything from flipkart. it has very very bad service.
1|I received this phone on October 31 and now I am writing this review after 3 days usage of Mi4i. This review is 100% true and is purely based on my own experience. All of the features included in this phone is really awesome.But the worst & unavoidable thing is that this phone heats up very quickly like anything else.The heat coming out is really horrible & unbearable even to hold it in my hand. So we can imagine the situation where we need to hold it near our ear. I bought this phone after reading most of the reviews which suggests that the heating issue will be solved after updating the phone to the latest version of update.But I promise you that it keeps on heating up even after it is updated.. So In short, I beg you not to purchase this phone as It does not serves the basic purpose of a phone.It does not allow us to make phone call as the heat coming out is unbearable.So make sure you are taking a wise decision & spend your money carefully & only on a product that worth it.... Thankyou... Yours Faithfully Vipin Sekher
1|After system update , the device I showed MAJOR issue "its mobile data does not work with 2G". Browser can not load any page even when "internet connection testing" says internet is working fine. VERY IMPORTANT - Just google "Mi4i mobile data not working" , one can find lot of complaints. Flipkart service centre also not acting as per request. Flipkart calls back at random time to check the mobile issue.They expect to connect mobile remotely using their "smart check app". Flipkart return policy for this problem statement is bad because it expects user to install app , run that app using wifi ("to be ready with wifi connection when ever they call is a challenge in itself"). How it is going to be possible?????? ALSO Comedy part is that Flipkarts "smrtChk" app checks all features other than my problem statement. Based on that, Flipkart claims that mobile is fine... hahahaha... VERY BAD WAS the response from XIOMI service center.In fact There was no response from XIOMI service centre. After so much of follow up, Flipkart is at least standing by its policy of 30 days return. Thanks for that but I had to spend lot of energy to convience. I concluded that its better to purchase mobile from other known brands who have strong customer support and better record.
1|I have bought this phone a week ago picture quality & other feature of the phone is good however the speaker of the phone is not up to mark neither the call voice is clear nor the audio & above this after sales service is pathetic I had made three replacement request back to back every time customer care care executive call & ask me update some thing or the other but problem still persist. I would say this one month replacement grantee of the flip kart is to making fool of the customer.
1|Bought this Phone in May. Worked fine for a couple of weeks. After two weeks started giving loads of problems. First the memory would get full with logs in the ramdump folder. It became a daily routine to delete the logs to free up memory. logging ticket with Mi did not help nor posting the issue in the Mi4i forum. Found out from the Mi4i forum that this is a common problem reported by many users and the company is silent about this complaint - so much for customer support !!! Another issues is that of the phone loosing mobile coverage. It became so bad that it would not work if taken anywhere outside a specified area. Again, absolutely no help from the company. Finally, i decided to move on to another phone. So, the phone I bought by paying Rs. 12,999/- became a chinese junk in 4 months. Will never touch a Xaomi product.
1|Don't buy MI 4I. Flipkart has cheated me . After one day I can not play video , I can not call , I can not receive the call because I am not getting any voice ,battery backup is very poor . It looks like flipkart has started selling used product. Flipkart is the biggest cheater because now they become successful so they started cheating customer. Suggestion to buyer please do not buy any electronic product from Flipkart. You don't even deserve 1 rating . Now I got to know that they show offer because they sell old product. I will report this to consumer court today.
1|Pathetic after sales service. Phone is good but after sales service is very bad. Service center's do not pick up calls. Asks for keeping phone for 20-25 days. No response of mails sent to service mail id. No escalation matrix.
1|DO NOT BUY! STAY AWAY! HUGE HEATING PROBLEM Flipkart and Xiomi think it is ok to sell a phone that has a display temperature of 40 oC? How are you suppose to keep that near your face for more than 2 mins. It heats up bad and flipkart did not want to take it back even when I explained that it is impossible to use. As for the manufacturer, they consider normal temperature of display to be 40-50 oC. who uses a phone that hot on your face???? DO NOT BUY DUE TO HORRIBLE RETURN POLICY OF FLIPKART
1|Placed an order on big billion day 17 Oct 2015, Order could not deliver due some technical issue and flipkart customer care executive are giving wrong information on same issue.
1|Hi guys, dont buy this phone as it is the worst phone i have ever seen. i bought 2 mi4i from flipkart out of two, one got dead suddenly after a month and second one my brother use 2 months, after 2 months it suddenly started giving network related issue. no service providers SIM card was working with mi4i. it was showing 'emergency calls' for al the SIM's ever after checking all settings and even i had done hard reset/factory reset of device still it was not working. It looks only attractive but hardly you can use it for a month only after that it starts giving sudden shocks and you are in trouble with your investment in mi4i. So please dont buy this product, simply chinese, "Chale to Chand tak nahi to Raat tak". loss of 26K to me bcoz of mi4i. mi pls dont sell your worst stuff here. You have a good options in market rather than buying this you can go for any other phone like Honor, moto G*, moto x*, lenovo ** etc.
1|I didn't expect this much delay of the product. Max of 10 days will be acceptable but it is taking almost 3 weeks for delivery. Ridiculous.
1|please dont purchase mi4i mibile. this is fake product and Flipkart Retuen policy is very bad Xiomi Mi4i mobile is very heating and hanging problem and Application not working proper
2|Hi, After purchase of MI 4i, i have updated my phone with latest 800MB update but still my phone is heating. Can someone please help me or suggest what i need to do to overcome with this problem.
1|i order the Mi4i on 15 oct15. phone was delivered on 24th oct. After coming back from office i start the phone and checked the feature and UI. while entering the wifi password i figured out that the some key's are not working on the keyboard. Now This Phone is just a waste for me. i called flipkart and requested replacement. Flipkart accepted my request and now they will send a another machine.i Guess flipkart Knows about such hardware issues about the phone that's way they offers 30 days replacement. without replacement policy this phone will be a waste for me. Hope this time a got a defect free phone.
1|THIS PHONE IS HAVING SEVERE HEATING ISSUES THE EAR PIECE GETS VERY HOT IN 5 MINS OF USING OR SCROLLING THE PHONE AND THE TEMP GETS 37 DEGREES AND IF YOPU STOP ALL RUNNING APPS ALSO THE TEMP GETS DOWN BY 3 DEGREES ONLY ALL TYPES OF SOLUTION BY XIOAMI SERRVICE ENGINEER IS NOT GIVING ANY SOLUTION - BOUGHT PHONE ON 18 OCT AND DAY ONE ONWARDS HEATING ISSUE FACED FLIPKART POLICY OF REFUND IS USELESS AS THEY DO NOT TAKE RETURN ONLY THEY ARE TRYING TO RESOLVE BY PHONE CALL AND DRAGGING TIME TO GET THE 30 DAYS FINISH THE EASY RETURNS IS RUBBISH - XIOAMI IS BAD PRODUCT PLEASE DO NOT BUY THIS BRAND YOU CANNOT USE THE PHONE FOR CALL AS IT IS VERY HOT ON THE EAR SIDE
1|i placed an Mi4i on oct16-2015. it has been 3 days and the product is yet to be shipped from the seller.Really disgusting delivery process. is it just because the product is bought under the BIG BILLION /DISCOUNT scheme ,making this delay. I even called FLIPKART customer care requesting them for a faster delivery with extra money. but disappointed to learn that no such premium services are available. If flipkart reads this survey,then my order ID is OD104187020727611000
1|this time flipkart did really shameful thing. in ordered this product on big billion sale fulfilling all the formalities but it cancelled itself. this wasn't accepted from flipkart. too much disappointment :(
1|First of all, phone got delivered only after 8 days in flipkart. No return policy for the product, but only exchange. Phone gets unbearably heated while on a call. Even when applied for exchange, one guy calls, speaks rudely and says no problem with the phone and Bye.. Already disappointed about the phone with features like bad swipe (as I use my Whatsapp more), slower touch response time and this heating issue now (btw I haven't even downloaded any apps other than whatsapp, sudoku)...On top of it, an extremely poor service from flipkart and the seller. utterly disappointed..Not able to give 0 rating here..13k got wasted...
1|Useless phone and useless after sales service. Never advice anyone to buy Xiomi. Phone got disconnected frequently while talking and there is no solution with service team to resolve the issue.
1|Hi Guys, Don't buy redmi products, within short period of time mobile will get heat and will impact the product mother board and touch screen. For this issue you will not able to claim warranty, to resolve this manufacture defects in Remdi product you have to pay 80% of your mobile cost. Post this service you will not get any grantee. We found that many of them facing such issue and seeking to different mobile model purchase with in short period itself. again my kind request don't buy redmi product whatever the prize, still lots of manufacture issue need to be resolved on this product. DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY FOR BUYING THE REDMI PRODUCTS.
1|I was a big fan of Xiaomi products and purchased many other products from Xiaomi until now. One month back my mobile screen got broke and half of its touch screen stopped working. I contacted the Xiaomi Service center and they told it will charge 6086 rupees to change the screen and it will take 8 working days to get it repaired. I gave mobile last week Saturday i.e 3rd October ,2015 . After one week I tried to contact them through phone to check status but the phone was busy all the time I tried so There was no other way rather than going to the service center directly. I went to service center there a lot frustration was waiting for me so many people with issues and very few people to resolve it. I patiently waited for my turn and finally when I got my turn they told to come after week it is still not repaired. So here are my opinion of the Xiaomi service center. 1. The contact number is just a dummy number and wont work at all it will be always busy. 2. The infrastructure is very poor and it worse than public toilet. 3. No status updates at frequent intervals. 4. Xiaomi service is too bad.
1|worst mobile.my money waste.hanging,overheating, red line coming unknowingly on.pls dont waste your money.its very bad
2|When i heard good reviews about MI phones then i thought of buying one. On 1st purchase i had a big problem with Internet Connection, heating and performance problem. After struggling a lot with Flipkart i could return the product. Now with the 2nd one there is problem with the mic and speaker. Now i don't have a replacement option as well.
2|Hi I got a phone in 19th June, now screen is showing a problem. a bright light line at the top right corner of the screen. Please Take back or exchange the mobile..
2|Not worth spending money on this phone. Phone hangs various times . even Google play store not working properly.
1|After the update to the latest software.. the front camera started giving the issue. Images were blur with full of color pigments. Checked internet and found that its kind of common issue i.e. lot of ppl got this issue and returned the mobile. Raised the return request and flipkart promptly contacted.. accepted the return. Picked it up in one day. Hats off to flipkart for the service. BUT... am I satisfied. No way... I paid 13k for device and it has a hardware issue which ppl are hitting regularly. I kind of remember my friend telling that "its a Chinese mobile" :( Think before you buy it
1|I bought this phone 3 months ago. - Initially flipkart suggested updates which resolve heating issue of my phone. - But after 20 day of buying I started facing touch problem. The touch completely goes off while using wifi and making 5 min call. Initially flipkart said that they may give replacement but after a long hold after making complain they replied that they are not giving any replacement. - I have already made all the updated and visited service center once. - Finger crossed Hope this issue will be resolved at the service center on second visit otherwise this phone will be completely scrap for me. Feature of this phone: - Look (good) - Rear Camera (also good and come up with many inbuilt modes) - Front Camera ( good for taking Selfie due to its beauty mode but not good for video call) - Android version ( lollipop seems more user friendly and screen icons looks cool in miUi) - Internet use ( Night mode option in browser is very good ) - One hand use mode is new. - Gaming (Phone heats up after 15 to 20 min for heavy games sometime game automatically stops) - Touch (Unlucky for me - not working after 20 days of buying)
1|I M USING MI4I SINCE THREE MONTHS, BUT FROM PAST 10 DAYS MY IS GETTING RESTARTING AGAIN N AGAIN AND ALSO THERE IS NO SERVICE CENTER IN MY AREA, AND THERE IS HEATING PROBLM, BATTERY LAST FOR 1 DAY MAX, SATISFIED 10% OUT OF 100%. SENDING PHONE TO A FRIEND FOR A SERVICE CENTER HOPE MY ISSUE GET RESOLVED AFTER GETTING MY ALL OLD DATA DELETED :-( .
1|Flipkart's return policy is the worst policy compare to other online shopping company. The mobile has some irritating issues like camera is not upto the mark not even equal to 8 mp camera , mobile gets hang frequently and heat problem also I recommend all of you dont waste ur 13000 precious rupees instead of it you must buy lenovo K3 note worth rs. 10000 it will give u satisfaction. Flipkart not even replace the peace so pls pls pls dont buy it.
1|I purched Mi4i phone on 30th May 2015(receiving date).When I Checked/used this phone, I observed few problem on it i.e. it's camera light was not working .hanging problem ,over heating problem..so I talk to Filpkart customer care and they scheduled some technical checks(remotely) and after checking they send me replacement , and I got new phone on 2nd June 2015 .... till this stage it was ok..it can happen with any phone..... But after few days I observed some other problems on this new phone i.e. over heating , most of the applications started crashing , hanging problem..and when i unlock the screen it went black and an error was popup... " Unfortunately, the process com.android. systemui has stopped".... and it started almost every 2nd time of unlocking the phone, then I again called Flipkart customer care...and they asked me that now it's more then one month so we can't replace it so they again schedule for technical check..and during checks that engineer suggested me that you have to reset this phone ..so i did it and after this problem was solved but all other problems were same...and after few days it's camera has stopped working....front and back both.....so I again called Flipkart and they asked me to go it's service centre and provided details of the nearest one(Lajpat Nagar)... I called on that number and got reply that " it's not any Service center address ...wrong address".. Then I searched and found few service center numbers...I called on all numbers but got reply only from one and that was in Sector 18 Noida..so I went there and showed it to technical person...he checked and asked me to leave this phone for minimum 25 days..and said even after 25 days he can't promise to give it back..Because they don't have any parts...during this 1-2 hour's I saw people's are almost fighting and abusing to that owner....b'coz they are not able to repair their phone even after more than one month....and all asked that owner(Dinesh) to mention on their job card that he don't hv any parts so he can't repair ..but he said that he don't hv authority to write this.... So Xiomi please sort out this issue . I am facing problem with this phone from the day I purchased it.... it will be great full if you will refund my money and take this garbage back..
1|I dropped the phone from 3 feet and screen got cracked from one corner also capacitive button stopped working other things working fine. Earlier I had nexus 4 phone which I dropped several times but nothing happened but this Mi4i phone is absolute having no durability. I approached to service center which was 200 km away from city they demanded 9K for screen replacement,But demanding 9 k for screen is absolutely ridiculous for 13 K phone which makes 70% of phone cost. I will never buy any Xiaomi phone in future.
1|I wouldn't recommend this phone to Indian users at all. Indian users because of considering our climatic conditions. I am sure they have not tested the phone with a small increase in ambient / phone temperature. Tthe phone has some serious heating issues. If its just the heating of phone then may be i would live with. What has made me more annoyed by the phone is the issues that come up with a small increase in temperature. The phone hangs if the temperature increases that if it hangs.....the phone is of no use. ITS MY HUMBLE REQUEST TO EVERYONE NOT TO GO FOR Mi4I
1|very poor phone absolutely wastage of money. the company xioami makes worst phones which does not last for more than 3 to 6 months. had bought mi 4 earlier which lasted not more than 1 month took me while to get my refund and then now mi4i lasted not more than 3 months. some charging issue. xioami phones are way below any standards and their phones dont last long. simply crap China product and shit company. stay away from mi phones aas they all r crap and hardly work for 3 to 6 months. money wasted totally.
1|Product has started re-booting after 3 months with out any reason. Product has issues while dialing a no. as the dialing screen doesn't appear. There are issues for disconnecting the call and it takes sometime to disconnect as the phone goes to hung state. After disconnection it gives an SIM Error. Have locked a complaint with Flipkart. Awaiting replacement of the cell with the new one.
1|I purchase Mi 4i before 2 days and found that front camera has color issue so I placed a request for return it sent me mail that your issue resolved request rejected but the issue was not resolved.I request buyers to be aware Flipkart does not keep its promise at all
1|Mi is making lot of money from our pocket. But zero service after sales. recently my Mi3 got little wate. It was switching on. But I am not able to login as the touch function was not working. I thought touch function is only not working and may be rectified. but the service centre asked my Rs. 9k. I bought the new phone for 9K, WHY should i spend 9k for service...that to with in warranty. There service is not good. they have limited centre only one in bangalore and for the entire karnataka only two centre. I asked then at least recove my data. that also they told not possible. when it is switching on , software is ok, calls were comming to my phone, only thing is not able to log in, how come the data is lost??? very very bad service. zero service after sales.
1|I purchased this phone and now I am cursing myself for ever thinking of buying it. My phone developed a crack on the screen. When I went to the service centre, they told me to wait for 30 days for the replacement of screen on my phone and even they will not replace my phone. Worst product ever.
1|The 'WORST' phone I have ever used. Absolutely no technical support. Unprofessional Public Relation Officer with hardly relevant technical knowhow about the phone. Even dont know how to use use Mi Cloud or restart the handset. Very annoyed with the experience. Think twice before getting this phone. It is cheap but not worth.
2|For replacing Screen, Customer service center takes upto 25 days. which is a very long period. Also the price for new touch screen is 4200 Ra which is costlier than other phones within same range. Customer Service Center no. at their Chandigarh centre is unreachable. Also there is lot of heating problem even without playing games on phones.
1|I bought a Mi 4i from flipkart 2 months back and after using the phone for 2 weeks I came to know that on the go ( OTG) pendrives were not working with my phone. So I went to a service center with the problem but they said they can not resolve it and that I needed to contact the customer service. So I tried calling the customer service number but no one is receiving the call and it has been over a month now but still no one is replying on that number even after my repeated attempts to call them. Even the mails I sent them are being rejected by their server. And the service center is also of no help. I am very much regretting buying this phone. So if anyone is planning to buy this phone beware, though it appears good on paper, the performance is not so good and the after sales service ( if there is any) is worst. And if you have already bought it then pray to god that you don't need to visit the service center. Flipkart should ensure that the companies it ties up with should provide the necessary customer support.
1|since starting phone is troubling . it get switch off if phone is idle for few min. initially I thought it is some setting but I tried every setting and it took months but no help . now recently it has started giving camera error . camera is not working . I have tried factory reset also but no luck. very frustrating . will never buy phone online.
1|this product is totally money wasting .. don't buy... the mobile have hanging problem heating problem ...sometime it misbehave .....and when i off my phone and after some time i want to this ON then its taking tooo much time to restart .....and sound quality is also bad
1|I got this phone after a long wait but it clearly disappointed me with its performance.First of all I loved this phone with its cool design and stunning camera performances,but now I am really regretted with my choice. Plus: 1.Cute and Handsome design. 2. Stunning Camera. Problems: 1.Display, When you make a call,sometimes the display went blank and you will be unable to even disconnect the call.You want to reboot or factory reset to get it normal. 2.Sometimes your icons in phone will be black,you can open or even trace which application is that and some all order will be shuffled automatically. 3.The phone having 3120 mAh battery but you will not get it one full day.. 4.The phone will be heating heavily most of the times. 5.Sometimes the phones sound will be mute automatically.You can see the phone ringing but there will not be any sound.I tried all settings if it happened by mistake,but it ready only after reboot. 6.I am getting a message most of the time when I open the phone,"Do not cover the orange area of the screen...like something" I tried to take screenshot of the same but failed because its in locked state.Still I don't know whats that. 7.Hanging problem or Lagging issues. The camera is one of the best thing in this phone but sometimes you will not be able to take photos because of its hanging problem. 8.Force close issues,this is a common thing in this phone. 9.Service is one of the worst part from MI (Especially Kerala),I contacted them for support and it was a very worst experience.They don't know even how to speak with customers.If you are not getting proper support for frequently complained devices like this,what is the use of it?. 10.If you register any return request,flipkart will call you once in a day,that time if you are in another call or even a drive or if unable to attend that call,they only call another day, and you cant call them back.If it happens twice they will reject your request without any other call. 11.I used 2 phones (MI4I) and still using for last two months,I can say from the bottom of my heart,MI4I is purely a disappointment.You will definitely regret if you go for it.
2|no head phones .. thats wrong if we are buying mobile of Rs 2000/- in that also we are getting head phone.. this is not done.. not satisfied
1|poor audio quality ringtone sound very poor dont buy it please dont buy it memory low only 11 gb space in this mobile
2|I bought this product few Months ago. I liked it for the fancy features. However, I recently tried configuring corporate exchange email account on this phone however, it did not get through. I have learnt from various forums that Mi4i does not support microsoft exchange, outlook. I need to downgrade the OS to some level for this to work. I can't understand why in the world Xiaomi doesn't support most popular enterprise application support on its phones. Now I am looking to get ridoff this phone and replace it with more standardized phones.
1|Its very Bad to face this kind of situation from FK. But after opening the box I realised that there r no ear phones in the box. And More over the box is well packed and and I checked the seal also. everything was perfect but earphone is missing.
1|disadvantage: flipkart giving used pieces and no warranty claimable products...!! heat issues advantage: camera quality user-interface slim speed..etc pls don't buy on flipkart...better use Mi store to buy phone with different colors!!
1|Item have been received before time but I got faulty piece as mobile is swallow on the back. looks like faulty battery is used. Please suggest if there is return or exchange policy.
1|I purchased MI4i on 3rd May, phone was decent enough with very good UI and performance, though feels cheap in hand. Buttons were very fragile and it feels they can come out any time. After 3 months one day I was not able to insert charger on my phone. I went to Bangalore, Marathalli service center and the guy there said that it is physical damage as you must have inserted charger pin the opposite way. I was shocked as it happens with every phone that you insert charger pin the wrong way, but he was not willing to hear. I agreed to pay 600/- to replace charging port. The worst part was it took 2 weeks for the service people to return my phone. I used to like Mi products but now I will never buy one.
1|i purchased mi4i which they delivered me on 19 may 2015 ,just after 15 days its touchpad stops working automatically,so i sent it to service center,now the story start from here. flipkart,xiaomi call center & nagpur service center all this peoples pushed me to another. pls dont buy any xiaomi product as they sold there product neither xiaomi nor flipkart will take care of customers.as i bought more than 10 different phones also purchased there flipkart first membership,they dont care . pls pls pay little more and buy to samsung or any brand who have there service center in ur city.but pls dont go with this Chines.
1|I got the phone its working fine for 3 months and after that i facing lot of issue 1, The heating problem 2.network issue And after that when i checked with flip-kart they told me that u have to visit to service center ' Because where i am staying Right now their is no service center They told me directly that we are not able to help you The response which i get is pathetic They also don't know how to G read the cm
1|very bad experience in this product when i am charging this phone it's get heated and continues 20 mintus talking in that time also getting heated i complaint against this phone in flipkart they also agree this phone have these issues. money lose ,waste , useless phone. and i get bad experince in flipakart customer care also
1|I Purchased this product 4 months back. However, the touch screen is not working and there are issues of phone hanging and poor battery backup. Tried to call up the call center no. and guess what it is busy 24/7. Sent at least 4-5 emails. There is no reply even after 7 days. Now I am going back to the trusted Samsung. ..
1|Hi Everyone, The hype created for the phone was very much genuine till i got the handset for my husband last month on 6th Aug(25 days old) , this one is faulty piece and i have had numerous conversation with there executives for the replacement of the handset but i was only given promises that someone will call me to resolve the issue. The phone sensor doesn't work the phone hang imperatively and i have lost all my patience when i received a message stating it will not be replaced this is when i got no call from there said Technical department, Pathetic services...I am sorry team you guys suck and so is your services. I will never recommend your site to anyone, never.
1|MI 4i totally wastage of money. Lots of issue. Touch is not working. Too heat up even in ideal mode. Sound quality so bad No refund policy. Very poor camera quality. Very poor service a HCL touch(Service Centre) 3-4 Hours waiting period in working days. 6-7 Hours on Saturday. I advice you all be away from third class Chinese stuff like MI. Very fraud company as well as Flipkart. They have denied for refund and replacement also.
1|I am using the phone for 3 days and I facing the same problems which I faced for my earlier device. Battery gets drained really fast ( it's like 1% drain in one minute) and the phone hangs often. Flipkart doesn't seem eager to give a replacement
1|It's been just two months that I bought this phone and the touch has stopped working. The Xiaomi do not intend to materialize the warranty they give with this phone because the xiaomi customer care number 18001036286 is always busy so you cannot contact them. Also their Service centers exist only on papers and net, but in reality it does not. I recently visited the Jaipur center and I came to know it was closed permanently. So basically you have no option to get your phone repaired/replaced. You have to spend extra bucks on your phone in case any problem arises, because the concept of warranty does not really exist.
1|At first I was very delighted when I received this phone, but that changed after few days of usage. There are following issues: 1. Internet is damn slow and by 'slow' I mean that I almost couldn't browse any webpage. 2. Signal reception is very poor. Plus, it continuously keeps connecting and disconnecting. 3. SIM cards get removed at random and very frequently. The SIM tray must be faulty. 4. Heating issues, but that was expected already. Flipkart customer care solved the "no internet problem" initially, which worked fine for 2-3 days after which it again stopped working (I again tried to fix it the same way but it didn't work) and more issues with the phone cropped up. Maybe I received a faulty product but this is what I experienced. Currently this phone is lying unused with me as I don't know what to do with this brick. I completely wasted my Rs 13,000/- on this cheap thing. I will never buy any handsets from cheap brands like this from now on. Will go for Samsung or Motorola only.
2|phone hangs too much. touch also hangs.................. poor quality phone..........................................................................................................................
1|One month of use and the screen cracked on its own in my pocket, and the touch even is not working. Is this what corning glass meant to be. Highly dissatisfied with Mi and even flipkart for selling such cheap quality products.
1|Battery back up is pathetic. Pathetic is not just enough to describe. Flipkart customer service also sucks.
1|I bought this phone through Flipkart on July 15th 2015 and paid extra INR 99 for one day delivery but the phone was delivered late by one day so the experience started with dissatisfaction. Then after using phone for 2-3 days, I found that the speaker volume is very low and phone gets hang in between, it gets very hot even when not getting used. I lodged a complaint having return id 24534034 but no one approached me. They simply closed the request by saying I was not reachable but neither I received any call nor received any email asking the issue. Their customer care is also very very pathetic. They don't have people to handle the customers. I tried calling them so many times but every time it puts you on hold for minimum 15-20 minutes and then its disconnected. I also disconnected it few times after waiting for 15-20 minutes due to the problem in hearing the hold music and the anger which as a customer I was having. I WILL SUGGEST NOT TO BUY ANYTHING FROM FLIPKART and this phone is also very bad, a complete waste of money.
1|The phone Mi4i is just amazing with brilliant features and superb camera quality. But my experience with this phone has turned daunting due to the poor phone quality delivered by WS Retail. I received my brand new phone in August, soon after 2 weeks the phone started showing some software issues. Though the phone was replaced by WS Retail, but the next phone which i received is even in more deteriorating condition. The screen goes blank when you call or get calls, as you turn helpless that you can't cut the call of do anything else on screen. Apart from this, the signal catching quality of this handset is too poor.
1|I purchased this phone last month and excellently the display was broken.I am regularly calling to service center delhi there is no response of my call product is good in performance heating issues are there but very bad Service. Now what should i do of this phone.If anyone Knows what should i do. Please guide me there is no service centre at dehradun.
1|Worse product with worse service provided by Flipkart....Got defective product, device was heating like heater while talking...You can't even talk. called Flipkart for the replacement initially they said its normal, after doing multiple follow-up and discusstion with them they replaced the product with new one. Unfortunately the replacement device was again having same problem. Again called flipkart customer care and this they said that its normal and they can't replace or refund the money...again after doing multiple follow-up and discussions they finally refunded the money and took back the Mi4i...So overall experience was worse with the product and flipkart service.
2|Flipkart gave me a faulty piece and didn't change it either as part of the 30 day replacement. The phone went duhhhh on the 31st day but Flipkart didn't entertain my request. This was my 4th buy of MI4i since launch. Alas Flipkart didn't give me any concession though. Otherwise this phone is amazingly good but I am sure this will see a price drop now like all other MI models, considering there are two phones in the market with exact same features and lesser price. Phone amazing Flipkart I am not happy with your policy.
1|I BOUGHT MI4I FROM MI-STORE, IT WAS DELIVERED ON 28/07/2015, SINCE THEN I HAVE TRIED EVERYTHING POSSIBLE SINCE THE PHONE IS NOT WORKING, NO RESPONSE FROM THE COMAPNY TO MY E-MAIL, NO BODY PICKS UP THE PHONE, SERVICE CETRE GUYS DONOT LISTEN TO ME , I HAVE BEEN ADVISED TO THROW THSI PHONE AWAY, I HAVE NOT EVEN MADE A SINGLE CALL FROM THE PHONE ON WHICH I SPENT 13000/- RUPEES, IF YOU REALLY WANT TO THROW YOUR MONEY GIVE IT TO SOME CHARITABLE ORGANISTION RATHER THEN SPENDING ON THIS USELESS CHINESE DEVICE, MY SUGGESTION IS PLEASE PLEASE DONOT BUY THIS PRODUCT OTHER WISE YOU WILL REPENT YOUR DECISION AS I AM REPENTING
1|I bought this phone around mid of july.It was working fine for 10 days.And suddenly phone stopped working and a white logo of mi.com appeared on the screen.Then I went to service center to checkout what's the problem.They told me that it's a software crash issue and suggested me to replace the phone from flipkart.So I replaced it with a new phone. After getting a replaced product,same issue happened within 15 days with a slight change that nothing was appearing on the screen(no display).Feeling angry I decided to return the product and got a full refund.But wasted my 400 bucks on scratch guard and cover.So,guyz think twice before buying this phone.
1|MI4I..the worst buy ever..after merely 40 days of usage it has started showing its real colors.The touch screen is not functioning properly..flipkart has this 30 days return policy..now u have to go to service center( a big task is to search for this service centres) and pay for the service charges.Your excitement of being the owner of a new phone will turn into nightmare in few days..Rs.12999 for this product a complete waste..in short you feel the pinch after all its your hard earned money..isnt it :(
1|Phone is really amazing BUT.....! After I got the first Mi4i i got that replaced in 10 days because of touch screen issue. Flipkart sent a new phone in 2 days. I was happy for that moment. Again after a month ... I see a new issue with touch screen and touch button. It randomly clicks and open apps. I went to mi Service they downgraded the OS as there are few issue with new update. Now again the same issue and they need atleast 15days to get phone repaired. Xiaomi u lost a customer!!!
1|Hi, My name is kshitiz saxena. I have ordered plenty of things from flipkart and never regretted. But I ordered this phone Xiaomi Mi4i (grey) 16gb and I received it in a week. The phone is a defective piece. It is not getting started. I thought that there is no battery in the phone but after charging the phone whole night, it is still not working. Finally, I called flipkart and returning the product but destroyed the box. let's see what happens?
1|At First when i recieved the handset after few days the volume went down almost to negliglible every time i played music. this happened repeateadly and had to switch off the handset again and again. since 30 dyas had not completed asked for return but flipkart has a policy of check the phone with some stupid app which played music for 3 secs and certified not fit for return where as problem occured only after playing music for a prolonged period of an hour or more. this request was rejected multiple times. Then after 30 days i have a tint of yellow spot (BIG) on the right corner on the display and cant return it since 30 days have passed. Defective models are supplied by flipkart.
1|Using 2 days of experience Phone do not get any incoming call if you are on 4G network. Phone couldn't charge sometime either you restart you phone. Flipkart not returning, they suggested to visit service centre. So buyer beware to buy this phone. you are just throwing your phone in Garbage.
2|I purchased this phone from Flipkart It's a very good phone, If you don't have a very high budget you should buy this phone, but don't purchase this product from Flipkart since Flipkart sells defective products You can buy it from the Xiaomi website I recieved the phone with a dead pixel, when i contacted the customer care they said don't worry our technical team will call you but it's of no use they will only keep sending messages that they were unable to contact you, I have given 2 alternate numbers from 2 different service providers but they are still unable to contact me, i even sent them the picture of the dead pixel but still no use all they tell me is that they will contact me My advice, this is a very nice phone buy it directly from the company website, you will get a better quality phone from there
1|After 2 months, I can safely say this is the worst phone I have ever used. And Flipkart's service is pathetic. The phone is extremely slow, doesn't connect to the mobile network, 3G has become more of a myth than reality, Heats up so bad its difficult to hold, Fails to run the least graphically intensive games - And the list goes on and on.. OMG!! My 2 1/2 year old Nexus 4 runs circles around this phone. This was a disaster. And Flipkart doesn't offer a replacement for these reasons. Absolutely Awful experience.
2|In August I had predicted in my review that the phone was overpriced at 12999/-. Now the price of this phone has dropped to its actual market value. You can get this phone at a price as low as 8500/-. At this price it's a pretty good choice. My old review: THis phone is overpriced. YU Yureka plus with identical spec. (except screen size) and now available at 8999/-. Lenovo K3 Note with similar spec available at 9999/-. Xiaomi's own newly launched Phone Redmi Note-2 with far better processor available below 10K in Chinese market. So price of this phone should be dropped down to 9K-10K and I am sure that this mobile phone will get a price cut in near future, otherwise it can't survive.
1|flipkart has provided horrible/no support. taken 4 attempts to agree them for replacements. every time different executive or senior excutives come on phone. i had to explain the problem again and again. no one takes the responsibility. some excerpts from my mails. " Kindly understand the importance of others time. I cant waste my whole time over this non sense. Already regretting buying from flipkart .total waste of money. The reason for cancellation is not valid and even stupid. kindly check your call logs. I was contacted minutes before the cancellation(over all 4 times was contacted since the return request made). You can see the level of bluryness and flickering in the images. I will escalate this matter, in case of any non assistance. I am frustrated with the after sales service. The issue has become horrible . whole screen is flickering and display is distorted.the issue was dere from the start as I already reported.(PFA) " even no transparency in delivery god knows when the phone will be replaced. btw i have called them 4 times, no use.
1|I placed an order to return Mi 4i Phone due to certain problems like Battery Drains Quickly, and Hits up to 48-50 Degrees and Poor Camera Clearity.But the process to return is too hectic that I spend my 4 days to convince the flipkart customer care, that i have received a faulty product. Flipkart Technical Team member was behaving so rudely like Its our fault if we buy Mi company's phone. Even they addressed Mi as Cheap and Chinese Phone Maker Company. After talking more than 60 minutes he generated a request for replacement but not the return. Flipkart First Membership is useless though it says that Priority Customer Service is given to Flipkart First Members. I think it is Flipkart Last Membership which is being given. I am plannning to contact CNBC Pehredaar to help me return this product and get full refund of the amount. Totally Fed up with Flipkart Easy Return !!
1|I bought this phone for my friend with huge expectation. This was the phone which we all were waiting for and the phone which i finally got had heavy heating issue. The phone would simply start heating even when we are not doing some task.Tried latest software update of one GB and it didnt help,.Must be some hardware issue. and to my bad luck Flipkart reject refund/return. So i thought this happens to all companies. Every company produces one or two faulty phones in production batch. A friend of mine also ordered this phone. his phone had a dead pixel right out of the box. He got the phone replaced and his phone now has no issues. Another friend of mine dropped his two day old Mi 4i and the screen cracked. 6K to repair it. He is not having any issues with his phone now also. But i seariously doubt Xiaomi quality cuz of these incidents.
1|These Chinese companies are the worst. Bought this phone 2 months ago after all the hype and drama through a flash sale. Kept it unopened to gift it to my dad. When my dad started using it from the first day onward an error "'Unfortunately com.apps.google.process stopped'. It just keeps coming. Nothing can be done. You just keep clicking OK OK 1000 times and it just doesnt stop. Cant return it to flipkart as it is over a month. I hope flipkart takes notice and connects me to some MI person. my 12000 has been wasted.
1|Hi all, i purchase this fuckin device 3 months back. The day i received, i had complained regarding its non functioning but didnt get any satisfactory revert from flipkart. They said we don't have any refund policy . Even my replacement was disapproved . Since then i am facing problem with stupid device . Kindly refund my money back or else i have to move legal to get my hard earned money back from you cheaters .
1|Though product is high end low price. Customer service for any fault is very poor. 1. Customer service lines are always busy. 2. No response in online chat option 3. Service center works only from 10 AM to 6 PM (Monday to Saturday). I guess most of your customers are workin men/women who has work to do and cant reach service center before 6 PM or after 10 AM. 4. No replies for any complaint mails. Really poor attitude in terms of service.
1|WATCH BEFORE YOU BUY. I ordered a black Mi4i from Flipkart to be delivered in Bangalore -560037. First they send you a defective product that too with different color (bluish grey instead of black, which is displayed on the site). Also I ordered a replacement for the same. 1st they call you 3 days after the promised time. Secondly when they confirm the replacement they as for 7 days to replace the product even when the merchant delivering the product is 12km from the delivery area. Later after 10 days they cancel the replacement without giving any notification. WORST EXPERIENCE EVER, POOR LOGISTICS AND ORGANIZATION
1|I am very very disappointed with the phone.It is damn slow n irritating me lyk hell. itzz such a mess.Other than camera clarity,everything is worst
1|Mi4i 16 GB was delivered to me four days back. Phone looks slim & beautiful. I started the phone and checked everything. Camera LEV is not working, Head phone port is not working. Data cable for data communication is not working. Battery remains only for a day without using internet. set heats up like anything. I bought it through www.mi.com. The customer service line is always busy as if they keep the phone out of order with a intention. I wrote mail but did not get any reply. Avoid ordering from website www.mi.com. They don't have proper return/replacement policy like Flipkart. .
1|When am i going to get this phone??? today 5th August, 2015 is the expected to get and i had contacted with customer care they prefer me that i'm going to get today. POOR DELIVERY AND NO GUARANTEE FOR DELIVERY RIGHT TIME FROM 28TH JULY, 2015 TILL NOW.
2|The product is good and I always trust Flipkart for delivery. Even Ekart service was always good, but this time is was not. Ekart people gave me wrong number of the person delivering MI every time, as well as they lost my first product and then never informed me to reorder. After waiting a long I went to ask them why do you message me and then not deliver the product, they kept me waiting for 45 minutes and then said they have lost the product. I give 5 rating for product but minus ratings for Ekart service.
1|Dear all, my phone almost 2 months ago and now I sent it to service centre due to no display problem. But service centre are very fewer in Kolkata area. And service experience are too bad, they told me minimum service time almost 20 day's only for display change.. Where other brands only going to 2 to 5 days service time there Mi going to minimum 20 day's service time..it is very bad experience that I have never before.....
1|I purchased mobile from flipkart, i raised replacement request within few days after realizing that mobile set has some problem, In this mobile, network connectivity is very poor, if you are in strong signal area, phone has good signal once you move to weak signal area, mobile doesn't have any signal and you can not able to make a call. In this mobile set which i got has problem with MIC, during the call suddenly other side people not able to hear sound. Flipkart rejected request of replacement.
2|This is excellent phone but not sure why display didn't work..I need to search service center now :-(
1|i am owner of all xiaomi phones includes... redmi; redmi2;redmi4gtab;mi4; mi4 i, . i had taken mi4i in first registration i.e.30th april.but first time a face a problem in mi4i handset'; due to poor hand built. the screen get broken in pocket; without any physical impact. i had used it only one month had deposited on 15th june. i had been informed that we don't have a spare of same. i had contacted him 6-7 time to their customer service centre. but they are still telling to wait for some time ( there is not deadline in time; only use a word wait for more some time from junior to manager). Today i.e. 31/7/2015 date we have not received any handset from ensure service surat nor received any feedback from xiaomi service centre. Also for such a long period they ar not providing standby handset. so i am whole xiaomi user recommending you to not buy any handset of xiaomi.
1|With high expectation I bought this mobile but totally disappointed. Sound quality is very bad. It gets heated up while talking. Call gets disconnected frequently. Net also gets disconnected often and while roaming every time I have to reconnect, re-start the phone. Over and above, the buttons are inactive (menu, tray and back buttons) and have to switch off and restart the phone . Even after re-starting it's not working for one or two days. Am giving my honest review after 45 days usage. I have complained the problems within 30 days but the flipkart customer service personals were questioning me like CBI Officers and at last they have declined my return request for reasons not known to me. I have written to their resolution team but not received any response. Shit service from flipkart.
1|My personal suggestion...not to buy MI products.....its totally a china product...i have purchased this on 1st day of launching and submitted to service center in just 1.5 month ad still waiting to receive......... Customer service is like a full of irritation, on one is ready to listen and provide time line...its like fully china product...dont aspect for any warranty..... i have suggested almost 10 of my friend and out of them 7 are dissatisfied from their service....really very disappointng...just to cross check request you to please visie their service center once.... I you are going to more than rs 10k then pls dont go by the product feature available here....service is also more important....pls rethink before opting this
1|I ordered this phone on 14th of july and got it in my pocket on 15th gradually i m realized flipkart provide me a defective phone. I never noticed sound quality due to most of the time i keep my phone on vibrate mode 2nd thing i noticed it's battery when i kept this phone in standby mode and i realized it's just a piece of shit. Flipkart make me fool. I did a complain for exchange or return...since about 5 days their technical and executive team giving different excuses....Flipkart technical team is unable to listen my voice during call everyday but at the same time their executive can talk and everyday they fix-up a call for technical team.....today i was in no mood of listen any excuses so i request him to make me talk with your senior....can you believe they kept me hold for 20 minutes and then their senior hang my phone just saying i will make your call arrange next day... Is it the reason for buying a new phone from Flipkart?
2|After lots of research .. i bought this this not worth for money Hw and build quality ok ...but 1.Device randomly boot up issue 2.Proximity not work properly .. First time it work fine after upgrade this is the issue 3.User photo calling issue 4.Caller UI unfortunately stopped issue.. 5.Sometime incomming and out going calls not work I am completely dispointed..... Still I hope for firmware upgrade.. if anything resolve .. i will update.if resolve..
1|Heats up a lot (50 C plus). Basic app like facebook hangs. Google hangout doesn't work. Flipkart has good replacement policy, but very strict refund policy. Even in case of such buggy device, I am struggling to return and get refund. (Already got one replacement, and that new replaced peace also has same problems)
1|My phone stopped working suddenly and when shown to the service centre, they ask to throw the phone away. This is stupidity! When raised a complaint with flipkart they suggest a new solution everytime i call them. Buy this product only if you wish to suffer.
1|IMEI number on invoice is different as on phone IMEI. Flipkart or WS retail selling old phones to users in behind of new invoices. I am 100% sure that the product which i received is returned product of any user that is packed again and sold to me. Very very big bluff. And they still not resolved the issue. Please directly buy from MI or aliexpress not from Flipkart.
1|I bought Mi4i cellphone from FLIPKART on 7th of May 2015. I bought it to gift it to my brother who visited me approx 25days after I purchased the cellphone. I checked the basic functionality of the phone when it was delivered to me, then the charger and the cellphone was working fine.But afterwards my brother came up complaining that the phone is not charging(when the battery completely drained out). I visited the nearest service centre and they said that some "Hardware is missing" from the device. I had visited the service center and called multipe times to MI call center for my issue. But they failed to provide me proper solution. I also contacted flipkart but they kept themselves out of this saying they can't help once one month lapses.I have been contacting flipkart, Service centre and MI customer support since then. Just because of flipkart "one month replacement policy" I don't want to accept a cellphone that is not even used for maximum of 3 days, though service centre has now repaired the phone and I have the phone with me after almost 3 months. But what is the guarantee that the phone won't get damaged in future. Frustated with poor service of both flipkart and MI.
1|got defective peice two times really disappointed and no good service centres available buy other good reputed company product
1|I bought this phone on 25 July 2015. Used it for three days only and now I have a major problem. The phone shows every incoming call as "Unknown Number" even if the number is saved in my contacts. Such a shit is this. Im gonna return this today only. Flipkart - u faked this phone :(
1|I received product in faulty condition. I immediately raised return request on Flipkart site. Flipkart technical team calling me and abruptly disconnecting call without solving problem. They did it multiple times. Worst customer service from Flipkart. :( My phone problems: SIM card is not getting detected Phone automatically restarts after very couple of minutes If if restart phone then most of the time it shuts down and not restart Power button does not work properly Screen does not senses touch properly, looks like faulty screen. Phone starts in SAFE MODE many times
1|can not bay this phone this is very bad hend set.........................................................................................................................................
1|I wanted a sleek slim light cheap phone with awesome display and bought the mi4i. [Very much regret the decision now.] I have been using this product for the last three weeks. This phone has been a great disappointment. Here is why 1. Battery drain I hardly get 6-7 hours after a 100% charge ( I DON'T GAME ) 2. Call drops of and has been facing coverage issues a lot, people (and also the flipkart technical support team) tell me my phone is "no reachable". Yes Flipkart, that is an issue with my phone and shouldn't be a reason why you has not processed my replacement for the last three weeks. 3. Heating issues - 3-5 minutes on the call, my ear starts to ache coz of the heat ( you can cook a chicken with the heat produced when you turn Mobile data on, but thats a different case though, can live with that) 4. Flipkart hasnt replaced [all I am asking is a replacement or an upgrade] my phone yet and keep telling me their technical team tried contacting me. Flipkart.. its not just but all my family and friends are unable to reach me everytime they try.. Probably making antoher 4-5 attempts may ring my phone. The ID's are 24407235, 24706801 [Rakesh was the agent from flipkart],and then again Pooja from flipkart today with a new ID : 25319021. They always have assuring words but, the huge question of whether they are going to get my phone replaced remains. ! My hands are tied and am inclined to believe I will have to invest another 13-14 K in another phone as flipkart is just waiting for my 30 days post purchase to get over so that they can doom me. !
1|When we received the product, the sim tray was missing. Called up the customer care, he couldn't understand the problem. As products worth more than 10,000 are not permitted in Bihar for delivery, we had received in bangalore at a friends house and the product was not opened for a month. When we received the product, sim tray was missing. And the next day had to leave bangalore. So, couldn't even replace it. So, now will get it replaced within next 10 days.
1|Dont Buy Tis Phone !!! . There Is Lots of Problems , TOuch is not working properly SOund is not good pc suite is not working properly hanging a lot bad product . I need to replace my phone but there is no proper response from filpkart. bad experience with filpkart. hate it
1|jab se aya tha, tab se complain ki thi, magar Flipkart ne kuch serious nahi liya... ab ye mobile kuch ma kuch problem karta hai...navigation button me kuch toh problem hai..response hi nahi karta...kabhi kabhi chalta hai...aur heating ka toh problem by born hi hai.... ab rating bhi minus mai nahi hai...1 rating bhi bahut jyda hai...e toh electronic chiz hai...par flipkart ko toh service deni chahiye...wo bhi bakvas hai
1|fake return policy lot of problem in charging hangs heat like a frying pan.worst experince with flipkart and mi4i
1|few pros- good camera, design n screen, UI infinite cons- the worst smartphone i have come across so far! heating is just another issue, the wifi does not work.. every time i have to use the wifi, i have to turn off and on the wifi (sometimes my phone too) at least 15-20 times (that is it wont work until i start pulling my hair and spend good 20-30 minutes on it). the phone hangs, shows glitches, poor sound quality, low volume. and all this within first 24 hours of using the phone. i decided to replace my phone thinking its a defective piece. that was beginning of another horror.. after making some 30-40 calls to flipkart (rubbish customer care), visiting the service centre twice, i got my phone replaced after 2.5 months with absolutely same issues. there is no difference at all, seems like they ve just put a new body on it and send it back. if they cant provide a smart phone with a basic wifi.. they should not sell it at all. so frustrated and disappointed with Flipkart as well as Xiomi. i feel like i wasted 13000 bucks. no star from my side!
2|We got attracted over advertisement and purchased it. Flipkart delivered in time. But we got a phone with faulty camera. After a long chain of calls and online product inspection and shop visit to prove it a faulty one, we got the replacement. A frustrating experience. Look is good and display is best.
1|I revived this product Mi4i mobile phone on 24th July 2015, screen on this was faulty. When i requested for exchange team is not ready to do that and closed my request without any resolution. i am following up with them but no revert.
1|Poor sound , Heating issue , I got exchanged thrice . Failure product . Don't buy this . Not worth for this price . Stop selling this flipkart .
1|I feel very sad to mention this review about Flipkart,it was not expected by you flipkart. I ordered and received the product used it for 7 days, the phone is awesome.After 7 days it began to MALFUNCTION and now it is dead,i can understand that phone delivered sometimes can be defective. But it does not end here i requested flipkart to replace me with a new one,so i registered a complaint on 7th July and on 14th July i received a call from courier service that your product was tampered and used by one of delivery boy.What kind of service is this,why you are tampering customers product. And more over i also called customer service for replacement for 3rd time ,they register my complain daily and tell me to call after 24 hrs and confirm whether my complaint is registered or not. Now my daily routine after getting up 9 is that register a new complain everyday. Pathetic,this is not the Flipkart which was known for its service -5 STARS FOR SERVICE
1|After one month purchase front camera gets blurred.Major problem in mi4i in front camera.very bad experience , not so much quality as we expected.over heat as well as fast drainage of battery.Plz before buying this mobile value ur money.Really very very bad experience by buying mi4i mobile.worst phone .presently phone battary completely drained. Now completely shut down how to repair my phone. Any contact number. MI Phone does not help. no service center .
1|I was super exited when this product gt delivered. It took 8 days to deliver from the date of purchase(not as fast as it used to be). When I switched ON the phone I was disappointed with the screen quality. Even text was not clearly readable on the screen due to pixelation. Its screen seemed to be of much poor quality than my Moto G. 441 ppi not at all from any angle. Soon I realized that the product is defective when the whole screen turned Green and requested a return back immediately. Flipkart should have quality check before delivering such non-sense product. I purchased this fone in exchange offer. Now i dont have my old fone(which one was in much better working condition) and can't use this one as well. I request Flipkart to take this defective piece back and deliver some sense ASAP.
1|Front camera problem within a month very bad sevice. Phone is in service centre since a month and they say that part is not available
1|HOT FURNACE, TEMP REACHED BEYOND 48 DEGREE, THAT TIME WE CAN NOT TOUCH THE PHONE. FLIPKART IS NOT READY TO RETURN MONEY, THEY ARE READY TO PROVIDE ANOTHER HEATER/FURNACE IN REPLACEMENT OF OLD HEATER/FURNACE VERY BAD MOBILE FOR USE
1|this mobile is waste of money. I purchase it 20/6/15. after 1 and half month it screen is broken itself when it connecting charging. customer service centre said it not include in warranty. and i meet 5 person that same case at service centre within 30 min. this screen price 4000/-
1|I bought it due to octa-core processor, 2 GB RAM and 13 MP camera. Moto G is far more better than this one even with having low configurations than 4I. I avoided reviews and bought it by trusting flipkart and MI and It was my big mistake. I had to request to flipkart for replacement due to charging issue. Now the replaced one have network issue. A theme loaded by mistake and applied which is stuck. No option to change to default theme. In theme menu It doesn't load new themes even after connecting to wifi with speed up to 4mbps. It doesn't show anything except and error of no network ... I suggest don't waste 13000 for this chines shit.
1|after sale service is very poor..my mi4i accidentally broken my lcd i had given in bhubaneswar service center but now its more than one month... service center says parts not available in india...its will take time.
1|I got this phone from Flipkart. The first day itself it had problem connecting to any SIM. Also youtube Videos were not playing. And phone was taking hell lot of time to restart.Not only this , after two days Bluetooth also stopped working.Within the first two days I upgraded the software and factory restarted but nothing helped.I raised a return request for this phone but Flipkart is not helpful at all. The first request they closed without resolving any single issue. Its been already 5 days since I raised return request and no progress has been made to return this defective product.They will call you once in a day and won't tell all the necessary requirements at once.Even raised a mail to resolutions team but they have not responded yet (its more than 30 hours). And then after three calls, they will close the request. First of all , don't go for such phones and even if you want to go don't buy from Flipkart.
1|please please do not buy this phone.flipkart is cheating...cheap chinese phone.fake return policy.problem in phone since very first day..
1|The phone is awesome, that is the only reason I bought this phone. This review is not about the product - It is about the worst service These guys can provide.. If you have bought this phone already/planning to buy this phone (or any other Mi phone) be prepared to experience the WORST TREATMENT from the service center. My screen broke and tried to get it replaced from one of the Xiaomi Authorized service PARTNER - TVS Electronics Limited - (Order ID 890022728)... Ten days to get the spare is what i was told. Almost after 9 days, today I was told that they need another 10 days to fix my phone (And I have to leave the phone with them and NO Courtesy phone will be provided). Worst customer experience of my life time... Guess what, I am going to get the screen replaced from a local service guy by this weekend (After all I waited 9 days JUST to know how much more time it is going to take to get it fixed). Thanks you Xiaomi for everything!!!
1|I bought this xiaomi after a long wait. I was much impressed with the display and quality of the camera. I had already taken this XIAOMI Mi 4i twice to the service center within a month of owning this. Of course like other users have stated this can used in Antarctica as handheld heater...!! Either the Product is bad or flipkart is selling inferior in quality products from Mi. Bottom of the story donot buy this.
1|I bought this phone in one of the first flash sales. To begin with, the phone worked well adnd seemed like a great deal. One month after purchasing, the phone began giving me problems. The main issues were that charging worked only intermittenetly and that the phone was overheating. I contacted Flipkart who told me to contact Xiaomi. It turns out that Xiaomi only has 3 service centers in Mumbai, the closest of which is 40 minutes from my residence. I can't get any estimate on how long it will take to fix the phone even though, apparently overheating is a very common problem. There is no way to courier the phone to Xiaomi which means that I'll have to waste 1-2 days of my time going to the service center to get this fixed just 2 months after buying the phone. Heating problem, horrible customer service. DON'T BUY!!! Pay the extra for the 1+1.
1|I have purchased Mi 4i on 26 Jun 15 and within one week both the camera has gone and service centre at Faridabad (sec 16) told me that there are lots of sets with us for the same problem....you leave the set for 10 days it will be repaired.... WTF.... Phone is heating like induction plate. Can any body help me out on this issue
1|Heating like a frying pan No games, no web surfing still heating to extent that I can't hold it near my ear. I used the phone for 10 mins going through settings of phone and it heat up considerably. All this when I am 'balanced' battery profile, not even "performance". Mr Hugo, what's the point of all these specs if you cant hold the phone in your hand or keep in the pocket because one would have to visit doctor for treating burns.
1|as soon as i switched on the phone..screen started flickering and a green horizontal line is seen moreover the customer service is pathetic,,they tell me to call after 2 hours,,saying its a technical fault.. if u have delivered a defective piece..please take i away on the same day itself...this is very bad as you are delaying the return of my phone,,pathetic service
1|This product is really pathetic due to poor signal receptance and network goes off as and when and once i requested for the return of the same , I got call from seller and giving ridiculous solution and told I am not satisfied .But to my surprise my request rejected stating seller provided solution. This is really pathetic service from Flipkart, never go from Flipkart, they have completely changed what they were earlier.
1|On the recommendation of my friend I purchase this Mi 4i phone is having hanging problem and also showing black dots instead of Apps at different times. I have taken that screen shots as proof. contacted to customer care and request to replacement but they are not ready to replace this. One more problem is that there is no service centre in my city and customer care executive giving me advise to visit service centre. How it is possible they dont care.
1|We had ordered 2 MI4I phones from flipkart. One works absolutely fine and it is really delight to use the phone. The other one does not catch any mobile tower which basically means it does not cater to the basic necessity of a phone. Had been following up with flipkart for replacement from 13th Jul Problem: Barely can catch any mobile signal and heats up within a couple of minutes. I had around 7 calls with Flipkart people, but I had been unsuccessful in convincing them that it is a defective product. They have a call back policy which is a system generated time. All the calls which I have got is during busy work hours (2nd half of the day) or am travelling. Had purchased phones like Moto G, VU Television and other products. Now the trust with Flipkart is becoming weaker day by day. Not sure whether the phone will be replaced or not. DIDNOT EXPECT THIS KIND OF SERVICE FROM FLIPKART
1|After the Mi4i hype , I purchased the product in the open sale on 14th July. I received the product the next day in a one day guarantee. But the device doesn't shutdown. It keeps indefinitely processing and this goes on for almost half an hour after which the device shuts down finally n thankfully. If I reboot it the device it shuts down but does not start start on its own. It does not detect SIM in any of the slots. When I called up customer care they say Flipkart technical team will contact me, I need to download some flipkart smartcheck app after which flipkart team will take a look and then approve replacement. I am amazed to know that how can I download an app since SIM is not getting detected. Moreover I was promised a call at precise time 3.52 but I didn't receive any call, rather received a message that they cant get in touch and sent me time for another day. Still waiting for any response from the technical team. Pathetic Policy.Pathetic Service
1|Hi flipkart,, This is regarding the issue of My Mi4i which i bought on 9 july sale. i had an issue related with proximity sensor. Everytime i am getting an orange screen when i wake up my phone using the power button though i did not place any screen guard .the phone is also lagging a lot with poor camera quality. Kindly do the needful replacement at the earliest because its causing me a lot of issues and it s high priority.
1|PLEASE DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT AT ALL. Also when i asked for refund they say we cannot. total waste of money.
1|The most important thing in a phone is being able to communicate via it and be woken up through the alarms set on it. But, what is the use if the phone dies in just 6 hours with normal usage that includes keeping WiFi on, checking mails and Whatsapp usage. Add to it, it takes nearly 3 hours to charge. I have used OnePlusOne,Moto G and Note 4G before. All these were lasting for over a day. I have asked the phone to be returned, let's see if they understand a genuine concern. Writing this review after 25 days of tolerance.
1|I brought a Mi 4i mobile one month back.This flipcart guys give a warrenty product of one year.But that mobile was not working properly display showing blank.Dnt provide such type of fake products.When i contacted the customer support i called 3 times alway they are saying sry sir system network not working properly plz call us after 2 hours. Dont buy such product from flipcart.Even dont provide such fake products to the users flipcart.
1|Purchase Mi 4i from flipkart. getting defective product. made replacement but replacement also getting defective around one month now but not using my phone. total waste of money and time.
1|I'm a regular customer of Xiaomi. I bought their MI3, Redmi Note 4G and Mi4I. Their quality is degrading over the years. MI3 was good and Note 4G is bad (Voice quality )and their Mi4I is the Ugly one (The good, Bad & Ugly ) Why I'm calling this Ugly quality ?. I used this phone for a week and Speaker PA system is gone. I have tried resetting it to factory and it still failed I have tried the Hardware tests (Hitting kernel info button 5 times ) and the Speaker calibration test is failing. What's the effect of this failure ?. The Phone doesn't make any sound (No ringtone, no audio, No video ). The phone is like forever in silent mode. I have to take it to service center where they will replace the PA board for extra money. :-( Flipkart order OD103147249250272100.
1|Don't purchase this mobile. This mobile having over heating problem. same features are there in market with low price
1|I bought the mi4i 15 days back . on the very first day of using it started troubling me. I launched return request of on the 1st day only but there was no proper response from flipkart. as you have already paid the money so there will be no one to revert you back till the time you take a strict action. even after sending regular mails to flipkart there was no response. Had a word with few of the executives who also made me sure that i have been cheated. Then I have to go to mouthshut to complaint so finally got a call to replace the product but i am looking forward for my money refund as this phone is not worth at all. Please dont buy this phone at even Rs. 5,000/- also. The basic problem this phone has: 1. Heating Issue 2. Network connectivity issue 3. Phone gets hanged. Now new problem has come up it is showing Unkown for every call I receive. I have done the formatting thrice but still the issue remains same. Just check the online reviews once before buying it. There is no one gonna listen to you after you pay for it. So think twice before buying this piece of Crap.. These Chinese are just making a fool of us..
1|the orders were cancelled without any attempts of delivery. I opted for a single day delivery and paid for it, but on the day of promised delivery, got am message from Flipkart saying that due to some technical issues, the product cant be delivered on that particular day.the next day, the delivery boy called me up saying that it was raining heavily and hence he would be able to come for delivery. On the same day, i git another call saying that the delivery boy is stuck in the traffic and it will be quite late for him to deliver, to which i agreed with himthe third call was on Sunday asking me whether i can take the delivery on Sunday evening or not. to which i said no and to which the delivery boy said that he will deliver the prodcut on Monday.after couple of hours after the call, i got a message saying the product is cancelled after 3 attempts of delivery.I need an explanation from Flipkart on this situation. how the hell they can say that they attempted 3 times. whereas there was not a single delivery attempt from them.
1|I like this phone & It was in my wishlist before buying. But after purchase it and use it i found so many problems in it like: Hanging Issue Heating Issue Battery Drained Issue Network Problem And Camera can not capture the perfect pictures in night mode. Please avoid this phone this is not much good in 13000 You can buy any other phone because I'm not satisfied And on the other hand flipkart avoid me to give my refund. The customer care executive misguide me and saying as per smart check apps report your phone is Ok. What should I do. I want to refund it or exchange it with other phone I don't want to use this phone any more at any cost. I'm fed up
1|BEWARE!!!!! before buying MI 4I please read : I bought MI 4I on 25 June 2015 with in 35 days DISPLAY FAILED, I contacted FLIPKART and MI service center, they replied as mobile was purchased from FLIPKART and as per FLIPKART RETURN POLICY 30 days are over therefore replacement will not be possible and because display failure is a major fault it will take long time for repairing. Since than I am continuously following up with both of them but simply they are just killing time. Better to buy from our regular VENDOR / SHOP as they have some respect and better understanding for that they always ready to help the customer by giving their best services. In online buying all this things are missing and they will refer their RULES & LAWS, in end of the day you are been treated as shuttle-cock and enjoy without MOBILE or buy another one by investing huge money. THINK TWICE BEFORE BUYING EXPENSIVE ELECTRONIC FROM FLIPKAT or XIAOMI.
1|I had bought the Mi 4i about 2 months back. I have used phones from Nokia, Samsung and micromax before. I really got carried away by the specifications and low price. But little did I know that they have compromised on the phone hardware quality. The phone's display went bust 2 weeks back and I am still waiting for the Xiaomi service centre to replace the same. They say it is a motherboard issue and will need to replace the motherboard !!! I also saw lots of other Mi customers at the Bannerghatta road service centre opposit to IIM BAngalore. All of them had issues like phone not charging or camera gone bad. It looks like Xiaomi is compromising on quality of some hardware parts to bring down the cost... New users please be aware before taking decision to go ahead with Mi phones. Regarding use during the 2 months before the display went bad, Pros: 1. It is a very feature rich phone. It has wifi display with which you can conenct to TV. 2. It does pretty much everything you need and at a low price. 3. Display is a good one at this price. 4. The phone weight is low and is easy to handle. 5. It supports local languages. Cons 1. Camera pic quality is good, but camera is a bit slow. There was one time when the camera got stuck and I had to power down the phone. overall, there looks to be several software issues. 2. When you are using wifi display or browsing for long, the phone gets really very hot. Not sure if something in the motherboard or SoC burnt out due to the heating up Please make an informed decision before you buy. It is possible that my piece is a one off case.
1|I do not understand the meaning fadvantage badge, when i heard from the support executive, that i could not exchange or return the Mi4i which i bought 2 days back. As every one aware, the phone has heating issue, and yet to be fixed by the manufacturer. I have bought with the confidence that, flip-kart will support with it's return policy, if i experience any problem. But it was worst experince, and they are forcefully making us to live with unusable phone. The support team, checked the phone temperate remotely (we could not see it )and sated it's with in the manufacturer defined temperature rating i.e 50 degree. Can any one bare 50 degree temperature near ears and continue to speak. More over the device maintains the temperature even when there is no activities in the phone other than display is ON. I am waiting for an escalation call from Flipkart. I should get it replaced or get my money back. My entire office lost the hope in Flipkart, and I am sure, it's going to spoil their business, Please do not loose your earned credibility just to support one manufacture.
1|Fake 30 days return or relacement policy of flipkart Worst ever 30 days return policy If any one purchasing this xiaomi mi4i mobile plz read it carefully or contact me(bindmansi@gmail.com.com) because i will help much any time as i cheated by flipkart First of all fake 30 days return policy 2nd heating will not covered in return or replacrment even the temperature goes over 45 degree if need i will show the result.. Third after open sale xiaomi is replacing sony camera with poor quality samsung camera so beware this Flipkart will replace the mobile only when a smart check application result will show defect and this result not show defect result because this is developed by seller side to reject the return.. So this smart check is also fake done by flipkart but we cant see the result.. The result will uploaded with hidden policy this all is done to reject the return or replacrment... And all customer care suggest the same solution to go to xiaomi service centre but xiaomi no solition will found because xiaomi will At last mobile aspect Pros... Best display ...... Best front camera Light weight Many sensor and touch is so smoth Cons... Poor heating issue above 45 Always near to 40 Rear camera average Poor speaker High SAR value
1|I purchased Mi4i order no. OD002784318166767400 , I am satisfied with overall performance from the product but the quality of product is very poor, my device is fall from my shirt pocket for only 2 times and that too not from full height just from 3 feet only and its main screen tracked and now customer care is saying to replace whole screen and they charges Rs. 9500/- for replacement. How can i expect a product which will not able to sustain such a minor shock, before that i had used number of smart phone from other brands like Samsung, Nokia but i never face any problem, they are such a robust piece that it last for many years. I am very true to my statement not exaggerating any thing. I am very much disappoint with the durability of the product. If Mi4i is so delicate handset its companies responsibility to make aware to customer that take extra care about your handset, make sure you put gorilla glass of high quality. I feel cheated . If any body is really concern about customer's feedback then please do some thing about our comments.
2|I had ordered a xiaomi mi4i from flipkart.After some days i found some hardware problems(speaker distortion) so i asked for replacement since the seleer had flipkart advantage.They rejected my request 2 times without my knowledge and 3rd time they said that my period to make replacement request is over but my first 2 request was under that period.Kindly help me.The product delivered was on 6th june and i got an email on 4th july that my request was rejected...
1|very worst battery backup.totally cheating with us.pls refund my money very worst very poor device pls take return it.and refund it.
1|Dear Concern, I am writing this mail in an unfortunate manner after being suffered so much of frustration and annoyance by your customer care and service center services regarding replacement of my faulty Xiomi Mi4i (Order Id -OD002950680018084100 , Invoice date- 28th may 2015 Mobile IMEI No- 866376029204952 ) that was delivered to me on May 2015. It has severe overheating problem along with camera and speaker troubles. I had registered the complaint with customer care on which they simply ran some troubleshoot system and closed the complaint with a message. However nor the problem was solved and neither they asked the feedback to know if the problem was actually solved on the customer end. Once again I registered the complaint and the same process was repeated again and again several times for whole one month . Later on they told me to take the phone to service center in order to replace it on the spot. However Chandigarh service center refused with a reply that phone is not replaced there and just offered to change the camera. Once again I reported all the matter to customer care. This time they asked to collect some DOA letter from service center. Now, again Chandigarh service centre is replying that they do not issue any kind of DOA.he issued only delivery challan (Attached find pfa..) Nobody is paying any heed and the process is lingered as it is. Till date I couldnt replace my defected phone and feeling harassed and exhausted by such an irresponsible and unfortunate services of flip-kart. This has made me reluctant to buy any other product from the website in future. Therefore I request you to resolve this issue without further causing any inconvenience and wastage of my time. I couldnt expect anything worse by such a reputed company. Waiting for your early and effective response.
2|Please avoid this phone. Very confusing control and the worst part is battery back-up. It will give you tough time !!!!! Go for bigger screen even if it as lower resolution. Phone hangs when watching movies or playing games. I am not sure on their configuration of Octacore. Performance is bad..Not worth spending this much amount.
1|The phone screen suddenly went off and the phone is at service center from past 20+. From past 20 days they are saying same thing "screen not available". The after sale service for this product is pathetic.
1|very bad product and bad services by flipkart i suggest to every man to not to buy any prodect buying by flip kart and mi4 i is not buying from flipkart
1|I have purchase MI 4i on 21st, May 2015 via Flipkart. After using it couple of weeks, unfortunately screen was damage. It has been lying in Xiomi's service center from past one month to change the screen, even it is paid service. Work Order Number: OIA/XM/15/01374 I have tried my best to escalate the issue in Xiomi customer care (Ref No - 321861) but matter has NOT moved and till today phone is waiting for part to be supplied by Xiomi. Customer care is unable to provide specific time to resolve the issue. I would suggest to avoid buying Xiomi smart phones, they doesn't provide any after sales service. After all chines will be chines.
1|Don't buy this phone... Har Chamkati Chez Sona Nahi Hoti... I have received this phone on 9th June 2015 and from that time i am receiving hanging issue in it.. I have logged complaint regarding the issue and for the time being service team resolve the issue but after some day issue again persisting ...No return policy
1|hanging and lagging in sometime some time camera not open light leakage problem in back button this phone cannot handle 208 mb games contact killer 2 zombies and 58 mb sonic dash epic ui to slow
1|i had purchase the Mi 4i on flash sell on 18/6/2015 and product was delivered on 22/6/2015. however one of the SIM slot no.1 of the dual sim was not detecting sim. hence i requested the replacement of the product on 4/7/2015 as this product falls under 30 days replacement garantee with flipkart advantage tag. Flipkart had fooled me for three long days and on 6/7/2015 refused to honor replacement garantee without giving any reason. all this flipkart promise of good servcies are fake and they are fooling the people with chinese crap products.
1|Poor handset- Super heating issue and battery drain out problem. Really felt bad when i called flipkart that my 6 days new handset is having such issue. They said what can we do " we don't manufacture mobile" take it to service center. Best part is the flipkart return policy- After writing 10 emails and n numbers of follow up flipkart took back the poor handset.
1|Camera was bad Quality....But Mobile Looks Good....I Didn't Recommend This Mobile To Friend.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1|No Signal Strength...No data connectivity.. Nothing worth to buy this phone. Do not waste money. Heating issue. Phone call gets auto rejected. No service centre around. So better not to go with MI 4i.
1|My Review: Extremely poor Hardware Quality & After sales service. Bought this product around 40-45 days back. Problem description: Distortions while listening to phone calls. Customer Care Experience: Flipkart customer care executives installed some App to detect problem but could not find any issue saying this could be some Hardware issue & Product cannot be returned. Thereafter submitted device at Gurgaon's Service center in sector-14 within one month of purchase, they fixed it but again issue reoccurred. Submitted it again & issue reoccurred after some days. Now Flipkart's conflict resolution team is not responding even when i am asking for replacement. Though it has exceeded one month of time limit for product being returned but as i submitted device at service center for addressing the issue in one month of purchase & still issue is not fixed, it must be replaced because there is some manufacturing defect in device. More than the product it's Flipkart's after sales service that is simply pathetic.. Also, Heating issues are there with this Phone & u get the Xiaomi update but that also does not solves the problem. Considering buying new mobile & this time big no for "XIAOMI & FLIPKART"
1|I purchased this phone on June 6th and got it received on June 8th. I do appreciate Flipkart for the fast delivery. My first impression was good with the phone. But I was forced to change my mind with in few days .I started getting a loose sound while tapping close to the rear camera on the phone.It happens when ever I place the phone somewhere. Sounds like some thing is loosen inside. I asked for a replacement and got another one which flipkart claimed to be a new one. But it has 3 lot number stickers which indicates that the product have been returned many times. Even the one I received has more noise than the first one. Even if I shake the phone im getting that annoying sound. I straight away asked for a replacement. I got a call from a flipkart agent (whose name I dont want to mention over here). He was very argent towards me. He straight away said that he cant replace the phone. He asked me to get in touch with the service center and get it fixed. As I said that Im going to escalate this case, he laughed at me and said "do what ever you want, we wont give you a replacement" Spending 13k and getting a defective one that too a refurbished one is not at all acceptable. Flipkart, you are a loosing a loyal customer over here.
1|i bought it on last weekend it delivered to me on sunday .i was happy till 7/2/2015 12:30am. i found my device is not working .i tried alot to turn it on bt its not working at all .i charged it fully bt i dnt know what exact the problem i m very dis pointed with mi now i m having more than 9 devices in my family now .new device which i bought came with alot of problems .advice dnt buy it .
1|DNT EVERY BUY THIS PHONE. heating issue, net does not works, very bad phone i had ever seen GUys please dnt buy this phone,
1|Pls Pls Pls don,t buy this product, not only one problem many many problem (cam,scr, tuch, sound,heat,)
1|I ordered two phones MI4i recently i found that damage in manufacture flipkart and i called them they simply said go to service center to replace or recover damage . very very worst services their are selling damaged phone to over sell the products . Please do not see the pic attraction and don't believe the FLIPKART Service and person respond also worst ..... Don't by this product in flipkart their are selling damaged phones mi4i i ordered both or damaged . so please don't base third party sites , buy in original site ... i came to know .....bad services . i lost 26000 for to phones .......worst rating 00000000000000
1|A defective piece has been delivered to me by flipkart and when called to customer care their attitude was is taht I have to keep this phone wahtever it is ok or not. I am not the first time purchaser from flipkart but this time I have got totally frustrated by them.
1|The phone is hanging if we play music , i raised return request for 2 times with the same reason in 30 days ,the declined my request every time. the technical person asking me to do the reset factory defaults to resolve the issue. But very frequently i am getting the same problem.Very very poor support.I am disappointed with this product from flipcart. i never faced any issues with other gadgets..
1|Firstly, the phone's charger (the plug part) stopped working after 3 days; so, i had to bring out my iphone's charger plug for charging. Then, within a week, the phone stopped charging and now, it charges on its own whims. It has happened to me at least 5 times when the phone refused to charge and then start charging only after it had completely died. Two days ago, i dropped the phone and its screen broke (I have dropped my iphone a thousand times and it always survived, while this one couldn't take a 3 feet fall!!). Now the panel buttons are not working and I have to take it to the service centre to get it fixed. Never buying an Mi phone again. No complaints with Flipkart, though. The product was delivered in proper condition and before the maximum time indicated.
2|I ordered Mi 4i on 30th April 2015 and phone got delivered on 9th May 2015. Mi 4i has pretty compelling hardware specifications at given price, but phone's software (MIUI) is very unstable. If phone's software is not stable enough, then it doesn't matter how good is the hardware. I am listing some of the problems I am facing with Mi 4i & these are serious issues. You should think twice before going for Xiaomi Mi 4i. 1. Over heating: Everyone is aware of over heating issue with Mi 4i. Xiaomi claims they have fixed over heating issue in the latest update (MIUI 6.5.6.0), but I don't see even 1% change after upgrading to latest software. Phone still gets heated when I am on call or playing games. 2. Random reboot: I have encountered couple of random reboot incidents with this phone & worst part is this will happen when you are on call ! 3. SIM inactivity just after updating the phone: Each software update cycle takes almost 30 to 45 min which is a very long duration. Xiaomi has released 3+ software updates since they released phone in Indian market which apparently tells you that MIUI is not stable yet. There is a next level problem, each time after software update I face SIM inactivity issue. Phone just refuses to detect my SIM card. Problem goes away after multiple reboots but still it is annoying. 4. Random behavior with Google now: I am facing this particular issue after upgrading my phone to the latest upgrade MIUI 6.5.6.0. Phone suddenly behaves randomly, during normal operation it opens multiple apps (cached apps) and more often it opens Google Now app. This happens almost 4~5 times in a day !!! and when Google Now app gets opened phone just refuses to accept any input from buttons it settle downs after few mins and then it accepts input from buttons. I had to turn off Google Now, since then phone is doing slightly okay but still sometimes I face this issue. Google's applications are not seamlessly integrated with MIUI there are some issues with Google Now notifications also.
1|The product is not as expected. There are various problems as listed below . 1. Problem with speakerphone which becomes normal noise even after so call SW update 2. Auto dial to numbers in last dialed list 3. Auto opening of Camera while talking most of the times (without a touch) 4. Heating - Get unbearably heated with 3g on or using any application like camera etc. I am looking forward to change /replace it. Request Flipkart team to help.
1|Do not buy this phone,waste of money and time even looking at this phone.... It gives a frequent abnormal shut down,heat up too much and this people cant do anything to help you, I went to the service center they just formatted my phone and gave back and the very same day the same problem starts again ,more than 15 times a day when I called up flipkart they said your grace period is over so they cannot replace or refund I need to go to the service center. This people only make you fool they say call up service center and service center says call up flipkart and when spoke to flipkart they asked me to go to the service center and get the work sheet and email us and we will replace your phone but guess what I get call after 2 days and I get told that my phone cannot be replace. This People are a Piece of shit all fake promises. Please Please Please do not buy this phone........ I would not even prefer giving 0 star. poor quality phone.......
2|The above phone is not working software struck cant restart when phone to this no ringing but cant talk Pls hep me for the replacement Sasikumar
1|MY FIRST MI4I WAS HAVING POWER ISSUES IT WAS GETTING SWITCHED OFF WITHIN 2 MINUTES , THEN I HAD TO MANUALLY SWITCH IT ON . MEANS YOUR PHONE IS OFF EVERYTIME YOU TAKE IT OUT TO COMMUNICATE. DUE TO UNABLE TO PERFORM TROUBLESHOOTING FLIPKART REPLACED MY PHONE WITH NEW ONE. WHEN I GOT REPLACED PEICE I FOUND THAT SIM SLOT 2 IS NOT WORKING IN MY SO CALLED NEW REPLACEMENT PEICE,SO I RAISED A RETURN REQUEST AGAIN .AFTER SUCH A LONG TROUBLESHOOTING AGAIN ( WHICH DID'NT WORK ) FLIPKART REPRESENTATIVES ARE STILL WAISTING TIME ON TROUBLESHOOTING & I BELIEVE MY Rs.12999/- IS WASTED ON CHEAP MOBILE. FLIPKART PLEASE NOTE THAT OUR MONEY IS HARD EARNED ,
2|Same issue twice. Battery not charging on connecting with phone charger and finally powered off for lack of power. Second time requesting return. No option for money back -only option available is to request for a new piece.( new piece ?-repaired piece I don,t know). I am waiting for call back tomorrow.
1|My phone is getting heated more than 45 degrees and both Xiaomi and Flipkart have learnt how to cheat customers very well. They have well trained representative's to handle this situation also with SmartCheck app, Customer service centre, etc., I don't know how could this phone would be the dream launch phone for Hugo Barra (VP of Xiaomi). Initially he reacted after hearing the heat problem, later he went silent thinking that the problem is solved. It's very unfortunate that a VP of company is saying false news and promises and taking this fake phone multiple nations. It takes time to earn and build the customer trust, and here Xiaomi have lost it dramatically and I'm sure people those who are suffering from this heating problem would have the same opinion like me. If Hugo Barra is reading this feedback, he should stop selling this phone further and cheat people and think about people those who have purchased it and suffering. He is making business with people's hard earned money by promoting a fake phone. Those who are reading this review, please do not purchase this phone for high end hardware spec, it's trap to hell. Cons: - Using phone app to make/receive calls phone will heats up - Using camera app heats up - Using chrome browser more than 5 mins heats up
1|i have used sony and moto but this is worst in internet handelling u shuld not even thinkk about 2g on this phone and also hangs on camera . really disappointed
1|Excerpts from a call to CSR Me: I have so and so issue with Mi4i CSR: I understand your concern, but women empowerment is great. Me: I have called 5 times to CSR but my issue is not resolved CSR: I'm sorry to hear that but did you know that empowerment of women is necessary? Me: Can you atleast tell me when will i receive that call i've been told i'll get so i can repeat the same story to another person all over? CSR: When women are empowered the world will have better phones. Me: Please escalate this to someone else who can say something else other than women empowerment like parrots CSR: Sorry sir, my senior is just another parrot who will repeat the same thing but is paid more than me since he's been repeating women empowerment for much longer than me. Since i was tired of talking to parrots i decided to say something here in the product review page. 1. Over heats even when in idle mode 2. Proximity sensor conked up. Sometimes mute and other occasions the hold button is pressed and i feel like an idiot talking to myself. 3. Compass screwed up 4. The back/return button falls into an infinite loop and never gets out of it 5. More than half of RAM is always consumed. 6. I was left with about 7 GB of ROM when i un-boxed the piece and hadn't installed a single app. 7. New issue that i faced yesterday was that the phone stopped charging and i had to reboot for it to work again. That's my option in most of the issues this piece of S**T offers. P.S. - As compensation for the traumatic experience of buying things from flopkart please don't give me a gift card worth 500 but i will accept an Apple I-phone 6 plus if you insist.
1|Product is very bad and seller fipkart is cheating with customers regarding support........................................................
1|i'm having hard time returning my Mi4i phone that I bought. First of all I got a used charger in a sealed pack . After 1hr of charging the phone gets only 10% charged. secondly lot of call drops, bif problem. Friends complained that they are not able to reach me for a long amount of time. My calls were not going through for good amount of time. Pathetic customer service - I got 2 calls from customer service but no resolution coz they dont know what to do. They are giving me all reasons on how not to return the product. They are advising me to show the phone to a retail outlet I got an SMS with the customer service number, however they cant help either. They will only tell you that some other person will call you the next day , since all technical folks are busy or not available.... Please be advised not to buy this pathetic product from FLIPKART. i'm not sure how flipkart policy is for other products, but it is really bad for this product.They are literally locking you here by neither replacing the product nor returning you the money.
1|I purchased the mi 4i(grey) on 18th of june which was the day of flash sale after a lot n lot of waiting for this phone!! I was very excited n happy because i thought i got the best phone in this price range. On the day of the flash sale flipkart sold this moblie for 12999/- without a single offer (the white model of this phone was out of stock still flipkart was giving a airtel 4g sim free). But today when i opened flipkart app i saw a huge number of offers loaded with this phone which includes exchange offer (which i really wanted), discount on sbi debit n credit cards (which all people want) and so on.... I am not angry rather am very upset because i never expected flipkart to do such thing with me. I am a loyal costumer and i purchase most of my gadgets from flipkart. My point here is if flipkart is selling this phone on big app day i.e. today with so many offers then why hold a flash sale just before 4 days and sell this phone with no offers to the costumers who have been eagerly waiting for it???? "wait kiya acha kiya" thats what flipakt is saying everywhere. I had already waited way to long and i am sure i could have done it for few more days. I am really disappointed with flipkart for playing such game with the hearts of the innocent costumers. I have lost my faith and i dont know what to do. I would conclude by saying that the phone is great as well as the flipkart service. But since today morning i feel very bad n cheated. what "i am wishing for" today is a reply from flipkart explaining why did it do such a thing with me?? one star is for the games flipkart is playing with us.
1|Its been a month now since am dealing with my annoying new phone (Mi4i). Xiaomi has used a very good strategy to sell their product through flipkart and indirectly exploiting the consumers with a fake product so call "Xiaomi mi4i". This product comes with lot of issues and with only few attractive features that get attention of the customers. Some of it major issues are: A. Defects in the functioning of external buttons. B. Sound defects, where in the phone fails to sense the earphones at times. C. Long hours taken by phone to switch off. (Happens on a random basis) D. Internal screen defects, which slowly hampers the main screen of the phone. Since, now I have mentioned these issues above. I would really appreciate filpkart for understanding the issues which were faced on my device initially and quickly got a replacement for the same. However, the replaced product after few days started showing its true colours just like the previous one!! A sincere thanks from my side to flipkart for taking back my return request again and as promised by the 1st Technical expert to refund the money for the same. Today I realised why Flipkart is one among the best online shopping websites and also for being listed in the Stock market. Keep up with your Good Service Flipkart!! Just a quick suggestion: Please be aware of such companies and products that can hamper the Brand image which you have created!! Ensure you remain the best by dealing with the best!!
1|this product is very bad, whenever long chatting then the phone heated and switched off...god knows when the phone is on....it happens only 4th day of the purchase..
1|Unsatisfied with after sales service and product quality is very poor ...............no service at all............one small mistake and total loss of the product.
1|Hi Flip/Airtel When we do not have 4G across nation then what is the use of it and for provider like airtel who have such a poor service for 3G, how can they claim giving 4G in Delhi. this is possible only in two manner either their engineers have not studied about 4G or they they have studied 2G twice and thinking we can give 4G also. Beautiful thing about provider is their Gold customer support. Their main aim is to meet the SLA not service. Call shall be closed with in time irrespective of customer's problem been solved or not. now let me tell you something on courier the red courier service or red express, i don't remember the name exaclty but the problem is individual has to go in person to ensure on time delivery else 10-15 delay is very common. And by any luck if you get a chance to see how shipment are kept in ware house you will shocked. visit red express courier at Noida sector 5. I would suggest flip for choosing the promo before attaching them to the product, somewhere or the other flip's name also associated and also they shall only take ISO certified courier agencies.
1|I never expected flipkart service to go so worse.. Had ordered a Mi4i phone and then requested for return aftr using it for few days as it had issues with the battery life. The representative called up and gave some tips to be followed to check the battery and asked us to create a return request again if the cell failed to work good on doing wat he said. And when i created a request again I am surprised that no one is calling back from flipkart and if I contact them they say that the representative has called me 3 times, when the fact is that I have not got call from there even once... Yesterday even after repeated attempts of calling flipkart customer care they never called me back regarding the problem and just kept giving me fake promises that they would be calling. I am really surprised that flipkart has dropped down to this level. Do you guys plan to play this game of false promise upto 30 days so that u can wash ur hands off staying that the 30 days replacement guarantee period g has expired. Don't you feel that the 30 days replacement guarantee policy makes no sense when u are cheating people by these cheap tricks. Disssapointed a lot. I am a flipkart first customer and always used to suggest people to buy from flipkart. May be I ll hav to stop shopping from flipkart and also suggest my friends the same after this experience. Worst experience ever FLIPKART!!!!!
1|worst mobile and bad service by flipkart, Never buy Xiaomi products due to following issue- 1. Heating issue 2. pathetic touch - back touch keys is most irritating 3. performance wise very poor- never felt like 2GB RAM processor performance 4. Very dull display under sunlight And above all bad service from Flipkart.
1|I got this set on 11-05-2015 and had problem on 11-06-2015, the set was not charging. Given at service center on 12-06-2015. Now as the 30 days return and exchange policy of Flipkart gets over so no exchange for new set.The service center people don't have tool to take out the sim out of handset.They used screw driver,all-pin, ladies hair pin etc. in front of me. Ridiculous. The battery of my set has to be charged twice in 24 hours else handset get discharged. Performance wise set is good.
1|At first i thought its just some settings problem but it have some front camera software defect front camera works like shit,problem in front camera some timne its works properly some time it works like shit some time it works clear and mopst time it works blured...so i climed for replacement lets see i get a proper piece this time
1|STORY AND MY JOURNEY AFTER USING ONE WEEK !!! 1.Bought the phone with high expectation but the speaker ,call drop issue and heating issue was persisting post update and doing all factory reseting the phone 2.Got the replacement product and it was having display issue as the display was getting black spot post charging. Cheap phone with lot of bugs better buy Zen-phone 2 which is good and doe-not have all the issue !! Heating issue is there post update it will go for zenphone 2
1|the phone heats up too much. Thankfully i got the replacement for the faulty device but imaging , the new phone was even worse. This is also heating up + the speaker is not working, It is permanently on silent mode. Have requested the Flipkart to refund my money.
1|i bought an mi4i smartphone and the screen went blank all by itself. i have been using the phone for just about 20 days. The phone has never been dropped or misused roughly. Also, the phone overheats quickly. too much problems with this smartphone. I have already emailed the flipkart customer care about the problems i am facing and wanting of replacement of the same. Awaiting their response in anticipation.
1|I purchased this phone when there was a cash back of 10% on axis bank credit/debit cards. But I did not get the discount which i was supposed to get. When I contacted customer care they assured me to resolve this matter in 10 business days, after 10 days when refund was not done gain I contacted them. They said they will process it n next 8 business days. After 8 days also I did not get my refund. This is pure customer harassment they are doing by just making fake promises.
1|Because of the problems/issues I came across in the delivered product,I contacted flipkart.com for replacement under their 30day replacement policy but the request for return rejected twice by #flipkart.com without any solid base/reason. Problems: 1.heats upto 48 degrees centigrade in just 5 mins of voice calling and heats up beyond comfort level in just 10mins. I can't keep it in hands without making use of a napkin or cloth to remove sweat. 2.front camera gives too grainy images.so grainy that you can't even see the subject. 3.automatic brightness control doesn't work and prevent pocket dial feature doesnot work either. 4. Hangs too frequently may be because of the heating issue only. 5. As per flipkart(representative name-anwar),xiaomi says that temp upto 50 deg is NORMAL. If it goes beyond that then only a piece is eligible for replacement. 6. Flipkart also says that battery backup of 8-10 hours is absolutely fine for any smartphone and because I am getting battery backup of about 12 -14 hours on full charge in 2g network,I can't go for replacement. I trusted flipkart for the first time for buying a mobile phone from them and I swear,after this experience I WILL never buy any electronic good from them. I Received the phone on 6 June 2015 and placed my first request for return on 8 June 2015 and third request yesterday ie 11 Jun 2015.
1|EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTED FROM FLIPKART! I purchased this phone some time back for my wife. Sorry to say but its a dysfunctional and bad product. Lacks the basic functionality - i.e. the sound of incoming ringtone is too low. Also the speaker is at the back side of the phone which further suppresses the sound of an incoming call. Bad design ! Not thought through ... Have been trying to return the phone but Flipkart's so called product experts are just too much. They fix a telephone call at their own whims and fancy and then call up before the scheduled time so that I miss the call and then these experts reschedule the appointment. After doing this 2-3 times, they cancel return request. This circus is going on for last 3-4 days. STAY away from buying this phone.
1|phone is good but hiting problam this price rance another phone is good.mobile future is not good.memory is not expandeble.selfie camera is averge. i am triyd retran policy bt flipkart not retrend my mobile.
1|Paid in advance for Mi 4i on 11 June. Eagerly awaited arrival of this phone. Packet was finally delivered on 13 June. Upon opening, I found packet empty. By the time, delivery boy had left. Complained over customer care. Not sure what will happen. I am hopeful Flipkart will either refund my money or supply the item.
1|Purchased on 1st june.camera quality pathetic especially seen on laptop. colors washed quality out. size of images less than redmi 1s . want to return but flipkart return policy frustating.approaching consumer court . think before you buy products from flipkart.
1|I have purchase this phone for my dad, first problem its speaker volume is too low, even my two year old Nokia 520 sound is higher than this phone. Can't complain as you can only see the features on site. Very Disappointed. Second problem phone heat up, after using for a while the phone gets heat up. Third problem screen crack, when i bought the phone their was no accessory available in the market nor on flipkart. its got crack after using only for one month, Cost me around 6300.00, and service center havn't received the screen yet, its on the way required one more week. I think in the age of One Day Delivery on most of the places, XIAOMI might be using Bullock cart courier services for spare part delivery. A wanted to give rating in Negative -10 for fooling customers for cheap phones, poor after sales service.
1|Phone Spec Is very good for the price offered. It works great. But... When we stick Tempered glass... Senors won't work And my mobile's screen had a crack all of a sudden without any physical damagefor which we do nit have warrenty. And I've bought a second phone for my wife whcih got heating issues... Upon Return & investigation by tech team... They have observed 43-4 degree centigrade temp... Which they say it as normal as its below 50. Flipkart is also in the deceiving list with its bluffing return policy.
1|Worst experience i had ever with any shopping site. I bought mi4i with defect in front camera, requested for replacement, but flipkart policy doesnt support for this defect (as i heard from flipkart representative). With this defect who can use the product. really pissed off..... No way for me to replace this, I think flipkart lost their charm in the product quality and policy.
1|I purchased MI4i Mobile one month back problem with Ring Volume automatically decrease since one month observed and changed so many ringtones to test,whether it is with Ring Tone or with Mobile. finally i decided and conclude that problem is low quality Hardware. I decided that I never Buy these Low Quality Xiaomi Mobiles- Only they create artificial demand by using cheap business tact ticks My mobile [IMEI/Serial No: 866376021678609 Order ID-Order ID: OD002725197862154300
1|PATHETHIC SERVICE - NO RESPONSE FROM CUSTOMER SERVICE. I WOULD RATE IT ZERO STAR. I WAS DELIVERED A DEFECTIVE PRODUCT & I RAISED MULTIPLE REQUESTS FOR RETURN, BUT NOBODY BOTHERED TO RESOLVE MY ISSUE. STUCK WITH A SUB STANDARD PRODUCT. CONTEMPLATING LEGAL ACTION/S. NEVER EXPECTED FROM FLIPKART.
1|I gifted this phone to my brother. After using it for 3-4 days he informed about the heating issues with the phone. I contacted FlipKart to take the phone back as I realised that most of the Mi 4i users are facing this problem. Thus no point of getting a replacement. I insisted on not refunding the money but putting it into my FlipKart wallet so that I can buy something else. After long conversations with support guys they denied that we do not have any such service to credit the amount in Wallet. At the max we can replace the handset that too after analyzing it, if there really is a heating issue and advised that upto 50 degree heat is common. With this, they closed my support ticket with comments ""Replacement (Return ID: ****689) - REJECTED, We're sorry. We are unable to process your replacement request. Reason : The issue has been resolved between you and the seller. Hence, there will be no replacement or refund. Please refer to flipkart return policy"". After using Mi4i for a while, the stickers behind the phone started melting and shape of the stickers has changed due to high heat. I would advise not to go for this phone as I have already lost Rs 13828 (12999 + 300 Screen Gaurd + 529 Flip Cover). Please note I am using Mi3 from more than a year but Mi3 did not have such issues. One lost customer.
1|The phone heats up very fast.Camera quality very bad.Internet not working properly.Need to restart every time to use internet.
1|ITS THIRD CLASS PRODUCT EVEN PHONE LIKE LAVA IRIS ARE MUCH BETTER THAN THIS , FLIPKART IS CHEATING ITS CUSTOMERS BY SELLING THIS PRODUCT AND NOT ACCEPTING RETURN REQUEST AS 99% CUSTOMERS ARE MAKING RETURN REQUEST SO FLIPKART LITREALLY FORCING TO KEEP THIS CHEAP PRODUCT, BETTER FLIP KART STOP SELLING THIS PRODUCT ITS DAMAGING THEIR CREDIBILITY
1|I purchase a mi4i and the power button some times works and some doesn't works. Heats up for the simple task like calling and whats app After gaming or web surfing it heat to extent that I can't hold it near my ear. The phone hangs a lot However i have been trying to return the product / opt for a replacement but company representatives canceled return request that I had not answered the call from them But they not at all called me Really Irritated
1|Please don't buy this phone.... It has serious overheating issue !!! & no return or replacement ...customer care is pathetic. I purchased the same from flipkart on 7th June and its upper screen & back is heating since day-one by only 5~10 min of talking. I called customer care for returning the product. Following is what they did: 1). First they gave me a No. (*#*#4636#*#*) to dial from the phone & check the battery temperature. If it is less then 45 degC then they said it is OK. 2). Secondly they asked me to reset the phone to factory setting. 3). Next they asked me install an application (Smartchk). They called me next day and checked the battery temp from this application again. They said since battery temp is fine they will not do any thing (return or replace) and told me take the phone to service Center !!!! Such an irresponsible answer i got ???
1|for one week i felt i got the best mobile in the world that too at this rate ! awesome display and cam blew my mind. but then comes the prob with my front cam full of colored particles. :/ terrible experience as I have never had issues with any mobile jus within a week. Flipkart has accepted to replace it. We'll see how it goes but feel very bad coz of this experience. And there is no option to refund as well ! That sucks. If the replacement is also going to be troublesome, I'm gonna fight for a refund!
1|hi, i m anil from Agra, purchased amobile xiaomi mi 4i from flipkart, mobile has problem of hanging so i requested to Flipkart to replace this mobile. Flipkart accepted my request on second attempt for replacement but Flipkart is not giving the facility to pick the bad product itself thus i have to courier my mobile to Flipkart as a return on my own risk. when they received this courier, they will send replacement.
1|PHONE GETS HEATED UP REAL SOON. EVEN AFTER CLICKING ONE PHOTO IT HEATS UP, WHILE CALLING IT GETS HEATED UP. ITS NOT POSSIBLE TO TAKE THE PHONE TO EARS WHILE CALLING DUE TO THE EXCESSIVE HEAT. REAR CAMERA QUALITY NOT GOOD. DOES NOT LOOK LIKE 13 MEGAPIXEL. FLASH IS A WASTE FOR LOW LIGHT PHOTOGRAPHY. EXPECTING TO GET MY HARD EARNED MONEY BACK BY RETURNING THE PHONE. HOPE FLIPKART WILL DO THE NEEDFUL. WANT TO GET RID OF THIS PHONE.
1|This phone is going to tarnish the image of flipkart. This is a crap piece of shit from china. It was my mistake that I bought this phone. Seriously, heating up, not able to sync contacts, bringin some junk while syncing and not contacts, you cannot configure you enterprise emails and the phone cannot take more than 4 digits for security pin whereas enterprise emails need atleast 8 digits, screen doesnt looks like full HD even after full brightness, my htc 816 is much clear and bright. no external sdcrd can be inserted, the inbuilt 16gb is just a myth, when I first booted the, I had only 10.47 GB available out of 12. something usable storage out of 16GB, And also flipkart didnot disclose/ tell you in its spec list that you cannot add additional external sd card, it is when you look for revivews and other websites for full feature list. now you can think how much storage is available for your use. Also at first boot itself, the RAM was almost 1.2 GB utilized out of 2 GB without any application installed, so how much will be available for you in future. Plastics and body looks so cheap...not an 13K phone. When I tried to return the pieice, flipkart started blah blah and told me that they will call to understand the issue, but I didn't recieve any calls from them but the messages that they tried to call me but Iwas not reacheable and then finally they closed my return request. Shame of flipkart....seriously I will never come again on flipkart to buy anything. They are cheaters selling bullshit online.....
1|Speaker is not working properly.Lot of noise with very less sound.Please do not buy the product if the problem still exist.Even flipkart should not sell such products if they have so many bad reviews about the product.
1|We're sorry. We are unable to process your replacement request. Reason : The issue has been resolved between you and the seller. Hence, there will be no replacement or refund. Please refer to flipkart return policy I got this above from Flipkart. Cheaters. Don't buy any phone from Flipkart.
1|Got the phone on 18th may'15. Daily getting problem of batteryas it was not getting charged after 3-4 hours of charging.Also the phone was heting up considerably. Request to return the phone was rejected saying that your system needs to be reinstalled.Same problemm is being faced till date.
1|The camera is not up to the mark. When asking for replacement customer representative talked that only wrong shipment can be replaced. Later word he agreed for camera quality check with technical support team. Hope I will get the replacement.
1|donot waste your 12999/- rupees on this cheap phone, overheating, browsers do not work, play store do not work, cant able to hold mob near ears its like burning, moreover flipkart do not have any answer to any query raised or to resolve issues , customer care is saying that i must use branded charger like samsung or micromax for charging mi4i (means this is not good brand a they have also accepted), never expected from company like flipkart.....NO REFUND NO EXCHANGE FROM OTHER GOOD BRAND, highly disappointed from customer care and this Chinese toy.......negative marking
2|Phone is very good. But the Service centers are Pathetic. My phone broke accidentally and I had given for the display replacement 3 weeks back. Till date service center has no clue what to do and they keep saying parts no available and they are saying they are not getting any response on their calls itself from MI. Registered complaint on MI call center, they will check the status and get back after 3 days . What kind of support is this ?
1|phone low battery.over heating.net work problem.call not connect.data only buffing application restart ringtone is very low.
1|Hi Folks, I really don't like the user interface of this mobile, icons are very small and different. It may also possible that i didn't accept the user interface of this device after using standard kitkat. Continuous uses (Min.10 Minutes) will lead to heating problem. Device plastic looks cheap. I will not recommend this phone to anyone. I didnt' try music hope this will create frustration to me. Mi has just playing marketing gimmicks by creating registration process, as we all know if we create scarcity of anything the people will love to achieve with the cost of hard earned penny. Thanks, Amit Tiwari
1|Dear Flipkart, My Mi4i is having following severe issues: 1.My front camera is giving very noisy pictures.Whole screen is full of colourful dots and images are totally black. 2.Phone heats a lot even when small applications are used like watsapp,small games and some times heat is unbearable to hands. 3.Phone is lagging a lot in its processor speed.When I type something on keypad,it appears on screen after some delay. 4.Screen Blackouts sometime when back button is pressed while closing applications. Kindly help me out from above issues.I had lots of hope from Mi but it fails. I dont want this phone and brand anymore as I felt cheated. I request you to refund me back and I will go for ASUS Zenfone 2 ZE551ML by adding some extra money.
1|I purchased mi4i from flipkart vide order No.302948215530728100, phone delivered very fast but sorry to say with deep regret that it could not ever start, only Mi logo and mi.com is displayed, the phone is not turning off after long pressing the start button. I requested refund but today flipkart has agreed to replace the phone by 8th june 2015, lets see but Iam very much disappointed as I had to gift the phone to my son on his 23rd birthday
2|Don't buy this cell, it has severe hanging problem, call drop problems. sometimes also not taking charge, one's need to reboot. Complete headache..........
1|Order ID Phone white Mi 4i : OD202905255718275600 I won,t recommend this phone at all and also Flipkart is n more consumer centric company and they stopped refunds for electronics Even though it is defective ???? I bought this phone on the launch date 21st May during the flash sale and found that battery is not charging and speaker is not working .When plugged into wall socket with Mi 4i original charger battery charges from 10% to 40% to 45 % and then it starts decreasing even though the charger is plugged inn in wall.I tried to plug it into different wall socket but same story . The speaker of phone is not audible in spite of the fact that all volumes are full I have been breaking my head to get the full refund since last 3 days but flipkart is not agreeing for the same and is insisting for the repair of the phone which is really pathetic.My 12,999 are gone into drain !!!
2|I am not happy with the product and services, the phone is getting hang from very first day. I have not downloaded multiple apps or anything still its not working and hanged frequently. I have already requested for return but haven't heard back anything from them except the email that I need to upload an app so that the engineer can track the problem, when the phone is not at all working, how can I download another app and keep it with me. I am unable to make any call. Not happy at all. In addition to this, it has major heating problem,
2|Its internet connectivity is too poor. Pls solve this issue or take back this item. i really disappointed to its poor connectivity issue.
1|Giving it 1 star as can't give rating in negative. Phone is like almost heater for me, after 5-10 minutes of call, it used to get heat up by 46-50 degree and you can not even keep the phone over ear for you call. (Better use headset for call). After so many hurdle in return process, got approval to get replacement for first phone and finally got MI4i again. And really the next one was successor of previous phone for heating. It heated upto 55 degree of temperature. Thanks for Flipkart, this time they didn't give that much of trouble in return process. Finally got refund accepted for my Compact heater and got my money back in my account.
1|i have purchased this phone just before 20 days and in 20 days i have lots of bad experiance charger is not working in proper and also touch is very bad and its always hange and flipkart is telling me that they will change my phone 2 days and its going on with 10 days i tired with this phone i have never use bad phone like this in my life i will give 0 star for this products
1|Never thought I would say this but Flipkart has given me terrible service this time. My screen has a kind of smudge but it is clearly not a case of dead pixels, its a hardware flaw. They have been telling me to download app for troubleshoot and do a hardreset as if that could solve a hardware problem. The phone also heats up. The sound is toooo low. And it takes forever to charge the battery.
1|I HAVE VERY BAD EXPERIENCE WITH FLIPKART , I BOUGHT A MI 4I MOBILE ON HIS FIRST SELL, I WAS COMPLAINED TO FLIPKART THAT THIS MOBILE HAVING OVER HEAT ISSUE AND I WANT TO CASH BACK, BUT THEY TOLD ME THAT THERE IS NO POLICY FOR CASE BACK AND THEY GIVE ME A NEW PHONE, BUT NEW PHONE ALSO HAVE SAME ISSUE. WHEN I COMPLAINANT FOR SAME THE DON,T HELP AND SAYS WE CALL YOU, BUT DON,T CALL ME
1|I purchased it from flipkart. i had lots of expectation with this mobile as this offers more features than any other mobile in this range. Camera is awesome but internet does not work. It display 3G network but internet does not work. any application which require internet does not work. Playstore, chrome, browser does not work. only whatsapp works, nothing else. Flipkart having good reputation in market should not sale or promote this kind of product which can harm his reputation. I have applied for solution with customer care and they told me that i will get call from technical team but did not get any call yet. Hope flipkart will resolve my issue soon as possible as i am regular user of the company. I don't want refund but i want replacement with good handset.
1|Total waste of money battery and software problem flipkart showing his true identity vv poor customer care
1|My MI4I mobile is having only 780MB, I cant install any apps. When i request for return in Flipkart, their technical team is keep on dragging by telling unnecessary thnings, Flipkart service is very bad in return policy. Better to not to buy any products in Flipkart especially electronic goods.
1|Worst phone i have ever used. and flipkart service is wrost. After 28 days use I experienced very bad service from Flipkart, after 20-30 calls even they have not arranged technical support for me. Every time they told that 'you will receive a call from our technical team after 24 hrs.' But after 21 days even i could not received call from technical team. now flipkart executive telling your guarantee period will be over after 6 days. Just worst and irritating......
1|very poor quality mobile dont expect much with this phone is strucking while working moreover there is no external memory pls dont choose this flipkart people also not responding once you order gone that money wil not come again.
2|There was some connectivity issue (Net connectivity) with my mobile - MI4I. Really confused whether the issue was with my mobile or network service provider as my connectivity is not on home network (Roaming). When asked for replacement, flipkart advised me to courier the product at their Bangalore address (From Guwahati) - Cost of which is around Rs. 3800 which will be refunded to me on my flipkart account (Not bank account). Thus, flipkart block their customers and leave them with no other option and my total cost goes around Rs. 17000 and I would have got Nexus 5 by spending some more amount. @ Flipkart - If you can't provide the replacement in Guwahati, why do you sell the products in Guwahati????Really bad experience..Will never ever prefer to purchase from flipkart..
1|don't buy from this seller and this product useless seller buying any product from this seller means wasting you time .
1|Flipkart once agains Chooses to fool its customers..Firstly this phone looks pathetic. secondly when i went on returning the product fk straigthaway declined my request stating that the product cannot be returned neither the amount can be refunded...So Now All i am left with is a toyphone and a 13k loss to my pocket. DONOT BUY A PHONE FROM FK..they fool us while returning the product in case you dont like it.
1|When connected to Internet or playing games. Phone is getting hot in such a way one cant use it. I am not sure this may leads to radiation and affect ears and brain. Flipkart is not ready to replace this phone with another brand. They want to dump chinese low cost mobile on india. 13,000- total waste. Very casual responses from Flipkart. This is my second MI phone. First worst phone is Redmi 1s Better to buy some branded mobiles Karthik
1|Very poor response from Flipkart. I am very disappointed with the product and service. Given 4 times complaint with in 10 days but no response and they even don't send the complaint number so as there is no proof at your end and neither they send you any report which shows the height of negligence from such a big brand. I strongly recommend others not to buy products from Flipkart and better to pay additional 15-20% and get it from shop. My complaint was that phone was getting heated up and started hanging from day one. They had done some study on the phone and told that its getting heated maximum upto 40 Deg C and which is normal. I told to give the supporting documents but no feedback there after and denied the replacement of the handset. While giving advertisement they hide the information from customer and try to sell the maximum volume of products and later deny to change the products.
1|Usually Chinese products used to have defects. Apps are malfunctioning. Flipkart's team tries to keep with me the device by several delaying response. Also cancelled returns several times. I think, Amazon is the only best shopping site. They must issue replacement. Worst
1|I had issues with my front cam and raised a return request. when my front cam is on continuously for 20-25 seconds, the focus goes blurred and full of grains. We had a trouble-shooting session yesterday with your "SMARTCHK" app. The APP DID NOT have an option of having the camera on for more than 5 seconds even. Hence The representative could not proceed further with your APP thus asked me to visit the MI service center to confirm if the issue is with the Hardware, If the issue is still found, i would need to raise a new request which is possible only when we close this current request. Hence I agreed to close the request, but needed the representative to mention every observation mentioned above, and the exact reason of closing the request in the mail. But in the mail, I had the following, "We have looked into and solved your concern as per our discussion and accordingly closed your return request. " How can you just close it as solved and no details are being mentioned in the mail regarding our observations in the troubleshooting session. THE APP HAS LIMITATIONS and hence was not able to troubleshoot further. The person told she would mention everything before closing the issue. And has mentioned NOTHING. While the issue is still there how can you close it saying it s resolved?? This is literally cheating the customers.
1|its got over heated when idle and while calling its getting heat. Very poor quality and sound quality is also very poor and not able to hear ringer. There is network issue, webpages is not loading, every time loading error coming. Spoke to flipcart people , and after a call with them , they say nothing , just put this code *#*#4636#*#* and check your battery like howmuch degree it shows but when i place it near by air condioinger it shows 34 degree, as soon as if i get a call, it shows 42 immediately, still the flipcart guys can not help and you can not exchange or money back on the mobile. just waste of money,but the camera was good.
1|Bought the Mi 4i phone in flash sale based on Flipkart trust. This phone is not available in market to try out. This phone has serious design problem. It gets extremely hot that you can't hold it near the ear. This is during normal usage (not even gaming). Flipkart is not taking the returns. Flipkar should be dragged to court for selling such phones and cheating customers. Hugo Bara should also be dragged to court for calling this as India flag ship phone. I am giving 0 stars and
1|It seems I have received a refurbished phone. The phone heats up badly when 3G is used and while charging as well. Although the configuration is quite well, but what I fail to understand is that why it hang/stuck every now and then. The heat is unbearable while you are on a call and using internet on the phone. I am thinking of returning this phone. Disappointed customer !!
2|I purchased the product before 3 weeks.When I got the product I didn't comfortable with with its packages and seal. So I place a return request before 2 weeks and they agree me to give refund for the specific product. But till yet now I didn't get my refund. I contacted to them many times but I didn't get a reply that when I get my refund. Very disappointed by Flipkart customer care.
1|I have purchased Mi4i and the speakers do not work. One more review I found who reported the same http://www.flipkart.com/reviews/RVBB1HK5SBYNOPXZF. I have asked for relacement but I keep getting auto generated calls from flipkart and they say our representative will contact you and my phone rings and gets disconnected and they keep postponing the call to the next day. I never get to speak to the real person who will resolve my query. When I call back on toll free number they schedule another appointment. The phone is horrible. Camera is very poor. I do not think Mi4i is delivering what they promised.
2|plus point- attractive look, very keen display,excellent touch. negative point------------everything else. Phone is too slow. Getting slow bit by bit, as they promised look is very nice nothing else. they are still using plastic body even having heating issue their phone, making them gambling with us. i know everyone want a proof and i m providing it wisely. you just install office suit 8 and check performance. it sucks. 1gb kitkat is about 158 times better than this mi4i. do not waste your money on such shit.
1|This is my worst phone I have ever had. A lot of problems in this phone:- A lot of heat is generated when charging and even when surffing internet.....!!!!! Sound quality is poor......!!!! Restricted memory you have.....!!!! When i applied for replacement to flipkart they rejected within 2 days.....!!!! only display of this phone is good....!!!
1|Have got this on 23rd of May. After two days of usage i feel very bad with this product. It is getting overheated even without charging. simply while texting, attending phone calls. The data connectivity also has issues. when i enable data service it is there for 2-3 mins and then getting disconnected automatically. Need to reboot the phone to regain the connectivity. Seems an OTA is available to solve the overheating. Not sure how it works. But still data connectivity will be an issue. so requested for replacement.
1|i have purchased 3days back i made till today only 1 call, result is 30 % battery gone in 1 hour and over heat, without using internet and phone calls. this very very bad exp.
1|FLIPKART feedback: The return policy is a scam. You will only get returns(no moneyback) and the "Easy Returns" is a scam as they have put in a technical team call (which just doesnt reach you) which is a pre-requisite. The call doesnt come but somehow they close the ticket and your return is rejected. Then you havce to raise another ticket and hope and pray that someone will not just close your ticket w/o speaking to you. Product feedback: PROS: Good phone for the price, if youa re willing to live with the following cons: 1) Heating issue - Customer service told me that 48 deg is acceptable heat. Imagine holding a 48deg rod in your hand..if you find that acceptable go for it. Though note that this is a intermittent issue. 2) Bluetooth connectivity problems - Canb use the handsfree bluetooth facility in my car anymore. 3) Selfie photos show up as mirror images 4) Phone hangs intermittently even though I only have whtaspp installed over and above the standard software The first 2 cons are deal-breakers for me, but may not be for all. So, take an informed decision. It's not peace of mind for the price though.
1|Charging Unit Not Working Properly Bad Communication Service Centre Not Give Support Till One Month and Flip Kart is a Flop Kart Because of Product And Services Given to Customer
1|The first time I bought the courier partner returned to seller as they say that they don't service in my area. So I contact the customer care and ask if they will be able to deliver next time I buy and they assured me that they will be able to deliver without any problem but the same thing happen. The worst part is that they take too much time in making the refund.
1|Hi , we should not encourage this type products. After MI 3 MI also trying to fool indian customers. Flip kart service is worst for MI products. Mobile should not get heat while charging and speaking with some one this is one of the best big con from MI Better to go for Lenovo products
1|this is the first time i bought the mobile on flash sale,TOTALLY DISAPPOINTED the external speakers are not at all audioable if the phone is not handy. I asked for replacement the customer care cancelled our request, stating that change the ringtone... no use I even contacted the custor care of Xiaomi at 18001036286 they said contact FLIPKART persons they will replace it Again the volume of the external speakers while playing music keeps on decreasing by it self..... and can not be fixed even by manually increasing thru volume keys. phone gets heated when used long even if you do browsing or even on facebook. NEVER BUY ON FLASH SALES poor phone
1|Received the product intime. However has been giving problems. While the internet works perfectly over wifi. But on the phone network, I cannot browse google and cannot open playstore etc. The message I get is connection timed out. Called up Xiaomi customer service, who inturn did some trouble shooting and then told to get in touch with flipkart customer service. Experience with Flipkart customer service has been extremely bad. After repeated calls whn I asked to speak to a manager, I was told manager is busy, so I decided to hold the line....while im writing this review, im still waiting for the manager to come to the phone and talk to me and its been over 35 minutes now. Regret doing this transaction with Flipkart.
2|very poor quality touch pad not working properly not recommend... I requested flipkart to replace/return the set. They told me to give a call back from so called technical department. However, everytime they called and disconnected the call and postponing the call for next day... Return ID 19624776 request submitted dt 19/05/2015 and again request submitted with ID 19802708 dt 21/05/2015 but Issue not resolved till date...i am disappointed too much... Will not login back to flipkart in future.
1|AS PER SPECIFICATION IT SHOULD BE 16 GB INTERNAL MEMORY. BUT ACTUALLY THE MOBILE TOTAL MEMORY IS 11.1 GB. DISAPPOINTED WITH THE PRODUCT & WITH FLIPKART
1|The phone has heating issue, bad part is - when any alert comes, if not checked with in 5 to 10 mins, you will feel hot in your pocket, really bad. I asked replacement, if that phone also same issue than I need my money back. I do not want rate this even 1 star..! - Sanjay
1|had purchased many products earlier... before u wanna purchase just wish to god ki aapka product kharab na nikle... 19may ko kharab mobile receive hua aur abhi tak courier wala wapas nahi le gaya... and they mailed ki 13 june se pehle mobile aa jayega,,, after sales service is TOTALLY ZERO... flipkart hv to wrk on replacement policies... i agree mobile kharab nikal sakta hai... but dear flipkart we are purchasing ur product coz of u... not coz of any seller... pls take this msg seriously...
1|Flipkart is selling low quality chinese devices. These phone not even basic call feature is working. No return for this device. Minus rating for this. Not worth.
1|I bought it recently and not happy with the product. The phone getting heated whenever you access 3G data, upon video calls and even speaking more than ten minutes. I contacted flipkart customer service team and they ask you to install some app to test the temperature of the device when it idle. Then it normal but the fact is that when you start using it getting heated.. Not even tested playing by games or you tube videos. Your ears will be getting heated.. I request flipkart to refund the money and waiting for their response. The customer care executives reluctant to accept refund request when I raised the request. So I am bit disappointed with this product and suspecting flipkart now..
1|Regarding features. It is just like any other phone of its category with meizu m1 note a very tough competitor. The phone gets heated up to 45-50 degree Celsius. I asked for return and refund request from flipkart. They asked me to do some troubleshooting and install some apps. After that the temperature to 38-40 degrees. WHAT HAPPENS NEXT WILL BLOW YOUR MIND (NO PUN INTENDED) I was being told "Sir your phone is just heating upto 38-40 degrees. If it had been heating over 45 degrees then we would have considered your request for refund." YES YOU READ IT RIGHT!! THEY WONT DO ANYTHING IF YOUR PHONE CAN BOIL MAGGI. IF IT COULD BOIL EGGS, THEN MAYBE YOU HAVE A CHANCE He kept repeating take it to service center. I live in Varanasi and service center is in patna or kanpur. They expect me to cover kms even though a phone received on 6th may wont be refunded by them. Gross case of customer right violations. Retards if you are so hell bent on sticking to 45 degrees criterion (which I am sure is a farce!!) I dare you to mention on product page. I wonder if even one person will buy this piece of shit to MAKE MAGGI. ALL PEOPLE READING THIS: Please give one star to this piece of shit and submit your review as "I GIVE ONE STAR BECAUSE OD302723795588122200 Mi 4i COULDN'T BOIL EGGS" This will make them realize that not any customer is to be treated as trash. Flipkart you try to brand yourself as Indian Company?? Amazon has 30-day "NO QUESTION ASKED" return policy. The only thing you are Indian Currently is stinginess and you are worse than Local Kirana Store!!!
1|Hi Guys i took this phone from flipkart on last sale and after that my excitement changed into frustration and anger. Pros:- sleek and light. cons:- Too much Battery Heating . Application Crashing. Its Body is not look like 13000/- phone look like cheap Plastic and No external memory. If you are ready to spend 13000/- better go for another product and get lot of features price wise phone is not worth. In 16 GB 12 GB is available for use and that finishes off very soon you cant do any thing. I have already requested for refund and waiting for response as per flip kart battery temp can go.up to 45 degree and it is normal. This i am hearing first time then how do you talk holding the phone.
1|Once again Red Mi & Flip kart cheated by sending defected piece..I want to buy this phone but bad experience.. Red Mi Note 4G Defected Returned Red MI 4i Defected Returned Once again purchased M 4i and after receiving the same found different labelling on Mobile & all its accessories of Self Declaration Confirming to IS 13252 (Part 1) 2010. Still confused about product originality status..
2|The mic is not working. Problem occurs very randomly. I was asked for the amsrt check app that time it worked fine but as i said it is ramdom so i sometimes does not work. have placed a return request again.
1|Phone performance and looks are very good and best price for this smart phone. The phone is getting heated even if I charge the phone,if i take more than 1 photograph, if i play a basic game and many more. I took this up with Flipkart (remember i am Flipkart First Customer) and strangely Flipkart took 3 days to contact me. I finally got the call but no one was speaking - after 5seconds the called got hanged. Then i receive a message saying that my return request is denied....there is no reason mentioned. Strange that they dont even tell us the reason for denial. I am very upset with this service and i will now re-think buying any product from Flipkart.
1|in the time of call from other OR if i will go to make a call to another number the display goes to blank...i cant see anything on the display. whenever i wish to make a call naturally i push the power button to open the display, suddenly the display has gone to black. what is the funny thing!! i told to replace the "GREAT Mi4i" to flipkart, but they are taking time to repair by sending one application ("SmartChk''). i am still suffering and waiting spending Rs.13000/- !!!!!
1|There is a huge gap between display glass and panel in the bottom of the phone and overheating and hanging while playing small game like fruit ninja, its a non-removable panel so water and dust getting inside the same thing conveyed to the Flipkart team to replace the product, but they denied to accept as manufacturing defect within 10 days of delivery and they are saying they have their own policy, so what about the 30days return policy. How fair? to visit the store for manufacturing defect. Please value the customers money and feelings and replace the product ASAP.
1|Phone was heating up very much even if it is in ideal mode.Phone ringtone is very slow.Touch is not very smooth.Sometimes phone become hang and touch does not work.application take very much time to load even if phone has 2GB RAM.Most of the time application crashed and phone hanged.
1|Viewers or Phone lovers - Pls do not buy this phone as Flipkart and Xiaomi both planned to sell this worst product by creating artificial hype. Read carefully - you will come to know there is no return facility for this product. Why such decision taken by seller "WS Retail" because they know once user will see and use it they will definitely try to return this and seller won't accept it. Flipkart making it's own business by selling these cheap chinese phones and making it's own profit. And we are the ultimate losers. Major problem of this phone - 1. voice clarity is not much clear when you are listening. 2. Battery backup is bad.It drains out very quickly if you are on 3G. 3. Ringtone sound is very low even you set it to maximum. 4. Phone is having heating issue. 5. No headphone provided.
1|worst item Mi 4i from xiaomi through flipkart. There is a problem in the sound system of the phone so I complaint about it on flipkart but they said that the sound system is ok and have no problem and they don't help me in any means. I have used others mobiles from flipkart also and there is no problem in them but in this phone they did not support the customer. I will purchase anything from flipkart now if they sold these cheap products.
1|There was so much hype created about this product on Internet but it doesn't full fill the expectation. I got this product in the first sale and my expectation was really high but once I opened the box the illusion was vanished. It looks like a cheap plastic box. I can't comment about the performance as I have got faulty product, I kept this phone on testing before completely switching over this handset. The mobile gets heated while kept on idle position. Whenever I am making a call the receiver is unable to hear my voice.The Bluetooth is unable to pair with my I-phone/ I-pad and laptop also. When I wrote this mail to Flipkart CS department to return or exchange the product they simply refused to do it. First they want to check the product through smart app which I have installed that app and informed them by phone and now waiting for their expert to call and check the handset. I won't advise anyone to go for this handset as it won't full fill your expectation it's a hype or smart marketing strategy adopted by Xiaomi. I also strongly criticise the kind of support given by the Flipkart regarding this problem.
1|Flipkart ..! My fav online shopping portal. 1. Display Very good. 2. Camera Mind blowing. 3. Slim Body less weight. This device is ruining your goodwill. Battery draining problem is an big problem & that's not enough i'm also facing lagging & hanging problem. Before start using it i have properly updated the device & run the same in balance mode but still i'm facing the above mentioned problems. I can't understand why my phone is hanging. 2GB ram doesn't supposed to hanging the device before that i was using lumia 720 there is no lagging & heating issue. And i found some kind of sound like some loose part(Nut,bolt) near primary camera. Kindly replace the device & fix Heating & hanging problem at the earliest. If u can't so just give my money back.
1|I got mi4i phone on 16-05-2015 MI4i Phone is looking good but it has a too much heating. I cant put phone on face for calling because its too much hot & its burn & medically affect my skin. I am very disappointed. Mi4i Heating problem is not described anywhere on flipkart or mi4i website. I called flipkart & tell them about it. Flipkart give me ring next day & check my phone with their personal app & they found that phone & battery is heating around 50C Flipkart replaced this phone new one will get soon. But, Problems is I have seen too much reviews on flipkart & all are complaining about heating problem, So replace will not solutions of my problem. So, I dont want to replace phone & return back of my hard earning money from flipkart. But flipkart cant refund my money back I dont know about this policy. Ok but I will challenge this policy in a court soon. I am very excited when I saw mi4i launching video on you tube they had never ever told or saw that phone will be heated. Now, I feel that I am cheated.
2|This is my Order No for MI 4I- OD302784274650140100, order No for Redmi 2-OD302542686705082200, HI, I purchased Redmi 2 mobile, last 2months back - for that mobile camera,video recording,display and everything as of now is good. And I am telling all my colleagues that that Redmi 2 Mobile is good, for a price of 6999 its very good(even I have posted very good feedback about that mobile on Flipkart).based on that little bit tempted in buying this mobile. Thought that if a 6999 mobile is good then, how about 12999, will be awesome and extraordinary. But dont go for this, reason is- 1..is over heat issue. the temprature of battery is going up to 41C from 36C while charging the mobile, with video recording it went up to 43C, where as the Redmi 2 moble is going up to 37C while in Charging, I have Micromax mobile also its also 1C variation, if you keep at Cheek or at ear, you can see very hot feeling. 2. the battery is inbuilt..so after 1year or 6months usage, or some times if mobile hangs up then you need to wait for 30min to 1Hr to get it back to normal(as of now I didnt faced, but one of my colleague advised not to go for inbuilt battery, 3...two days back the camera, didnt opened and software shown some message as cant connect to Camera, restart the mobile..So I switched off the mobile and later on it got started, ( to be frank i didnt downloaded any apps-other than the provided by Flipkart, and also not more than 15Camera Pictures kept in Camera)its showing overheat while charging..the plus points is..Good Camera Quality, (but video quality is not much good comparing Redmi 2, even in low light the Redmi 2 has given good quality, but not MI 4I), Display is good and attracting. Slim Mobile. I have taken all the reviews very light, as kept over confidence on this mobile, basis my Redmi 2 mobile liking..now I am suffering. I am not sending this message, with any anger..it is just for the sake of you. I can get a replacement or may not..definitely this mobile will work for 1year sure(as there is a warranty for battery for 6months and for mobile one year, if any one who is going for a mobile for 6months or for one year, then we can definitely go for this mobile and enjoy with it Camera quality, good display..but if any one is looking for a Mobile usage for long time of 3 to 5 yrs, have to think..
1|Not upto the mark.. BATTERY & HEATING ISSUE IS THE MAJOR DRAWBACK THINK TWICE BEFORE BUYING Touch---- fine Processing--- fine and sometimes few apps stucks Camera---- just ok Heating is major issue; heats quickly for normal camera usage. with 3G u can just iron clothes. Battery --- for normal use 1 day else charge it frequently. Built Quality--- Not looks like a brand... cheap Chinese mobile types Flipkart must confirm the quality of the product before they selling new products, i m totally disappointed with this. Support for Flipkart is also worse. They dont respond even after 2-3 times of complaining. No replacement or refund.
1|The Audio quality of the phone is pathetic and one can hardly hear anything when in speaker mode. Also there is a design flaw with the phone - the speaker is located on the back side of the phone. Hence when the phone is kept on its back (which is usually how you would place a phone) on any surface, you can hardly hear the ring when the phone rings. All this has detrimental effect on the alarm, phone rings and speaker phone ability. The service from Flipkart was VERY VERY bad and the service executive tried to convince me his best that there is nothing wrong with the phone and that I am a wrong person if I find anything wrong with the phone. He made me download an app to check the performance of the phone and said that the app is proving that the phone is working perfectly. When I asked him how can the app tell if the volume is low, he had no answer and kept repeating like a moron that I am wrong to find anything wrong with the phone. I finally asked to speak with the manager to convey my problem and he said he will arrange a call back. That call has never come and I am stuck with a defective phone which Flipkart is refusing to take back.
1|I have been using this device from last 10 days and not happy with the heating issue. everything is fine but this heating issue is making this device unusable. It is causing pain in the ears while talking and also headache. They have advised me to resetting the device but problem is still persisting and made a complained again. lets see what solution they will provide to me. I will update the same after getting reply from flipkart.
1|I was purchase MI4I on dated 07/05/2015 and received the product on 11/05/2015 when i was check the product i found there was no accessory in the box. so i was call to flipkart customer care and inform the same after putting my call on hold more then 20 min they request for reverse pick up the will be scheduled on dated 19/05/2015 when i check this on flipkart the cancel the reverse pickup request by itself again i make a call to flipkart and wasted my 15 min but issue was not resolved. i call again n they told me reverse pick up take time so they credit rs.500 in my wallet when i check then no use of this amount because i can only use against the seller this amount. Seller don't have any accessory with him to sale so no use of that amount after that i repetitively calling and mailing to flipkart for the solution but not yet any solution is provided by them. so please it's my request to you all no customer support is provided by them now days so avoid buying from flipkart.
1|Got this phone today "15 may"!! By look phone it's too awesome!!! Easy to handle and with the black back case it too stylish as well!! However, my phone was damaged, There was a led leakage at the bottom of the phone. Now, I have raised a ticket for the replacement!! I will definitely give a honest review, once I get the new phone and test everything!!!
1|I ordered the Mi4i on the very first sale and received a defective phone on complaining i got a replacement that too was defective. Cant trust the quality of testing now. Both the time the screen was faulty
1|After I opened the box what i saw was unbeleivable. I felt cheated. The phone is very weak. Build and screen wise. I felt misled by claims made by flipkart. First time i felt why I purchased this product .... If you still want to buy then you are wasting your money.
1|Third grade phone with flipkart third grade customer service.return request raised on 3rd may,till date flipkart customer team is lingering the issue.
1|Dear All, Please dont purchase this phone it is a very bad phone which i ever seen. I dont know about other customers experience but really it is very bad. Think 100 times before planning to purchase this phone.
1|It is the worst Mi smartphone I have ever used. Mi3 was awesome, Mi4 was good too but Mi4i it just isn't worth buying. It gets so hot that it is not comfortable to hold. If you check the temperature, it soars well above 60C which is substantially hot. I asked flipkart for a refund and instead was provided a replacement, and seeing the reviews I bet whether this unit will be any different.
1|I received the phone via flipkart yesterday. The phone got heated several times - during chargin, during call, during normal browsing, during listening music(not over 10 minutes). I need replacement / my money back. Features no doubt are good otherwise. Flipkart delivery as usual good.
1|here we go: Got Mi4i, put the SIM and guess want , i cant make calls. It says No SIM or SIM error. Same sim works fine in other phones. Best part is Flipkart says, i cant get a refund.....
1|After using it for 5 Days: PROS: 1) Display 2) Size is Handy and LightWeight. 3) Battery Backup Cons: 1) Heating issue while Taking Pics, Making Calls, Using Internet(15 min) this is the reason of more battery backup. U can't use your phone continuously more that 20 min, Again wait for 10 to 15 min for cooldown. 2) Loudspeaker sound it is too low. U can,t hear your ringtone if u are 2-3 mtr away(good thing is it has vibration mode so u can feel some one is calling). 3) Rear/Back Camera is nowhere in comparison to mi3. 4) Asphalt 8 Lags even in performance mode. 5) Non Removable Back Panel and Battery. If Phone Lags just wait bcoz u can't remove battery and restart. 6) Limited Storage of 10 Gb. No memory card slot. 7) No Headphones. 8) No Screen guard. 9) A/C to Flipkart more than 90% set are Defective. Bcoz before purchasing this they told that some defective product is having heating issues. But as per my observation each mi 4i have heating issue. So,Conclusion is flipkart is selling diffective product with scheme of replacing defactive product with another defective product. Last but not the least Hugo barra the biggest liar 1) flagship 2) No Heating issue with 2nd gen processor. Moto g2 will be far better than this with 2000 less price.
1|I am perhaps the first customer to buy it on 30th April flash sale. I literally waited for the countdown to finish and bought the mobile within minutes, right @ 2pm. I was this much exited to buy this mobile. Went through many YouTube videos, both from India and around the world. The anticipation was high. But all in vain. Let me explain the serious issues with the phone (or perhaps my phone at hand), 1. The overall look was awesome right out of the box. As soon I inserted the SIM card the back of the phone was like a cooking oven. I found out the reason in blogs. The whole mother board is very congested and sitting @ 1"x0.5" area below the back camera. Xiaomi did this to fit a bigger battery while keeping the phone thin. 2. The sound speakers are of no use. I can barely hear the ring even in a quite room. Let alone the songs\vdos @ full volume. Feels like this phone is meant to use in a Church. 3. The main & the most painful issue is with the network settings. This issue kicked in as soon as i upgraded to MiUi6 inter phase. Whenever I turn off my Wifi and want to connect with 3G my phone does not connect to the 3G network mobile data. I have 3G enabled, 3G balance, good network everything. The only solution I found is, to goto my APN settings, create a new APN, manually input all the server, proxy, port,MCC, MCN details to make the 3G work again. This also works 60-40 times, not always. I have to keep resetting the APN and do a trial n error method. Again when I connect and discount with a Wifi mobile data stops working. Can't even open google home page from chrome, for some reason WhatsApp is working sometime (can't explain why). 4. Most of the time I have no notifications in my home screen even though my notifications settings are proper. Its been a week I'm using the mobile. Starting to regret the decision of buying the product without more research. If someone can explain what is happening and how to fix this that will be great. O.w. I already raised a issue with Flipkart and returning the product.
1|I received this phone on 8th and it was working all good, (though i have not used any sim card) on saturday when i had my existing sim card cut into micro sim and inserted to this new phone the problem was seen when you dial any number the phone screen goes black and you do not have any option to see the screen nor you will be able to disconnect the call until the call get disconnect by its own or you power off the phone This is really a terrible fault as you are left with no option to access the phone for that period of time..... I have asked flipkart for a replacement, lets see what they come up with....till now i havent heard anything back from them yet
1|on the Brand name of Xiomi, I had purchase this product on 1st sale, so many problem is present in this phone, Like if phone is in switchoff mode then its not take charge, during call waiting Phone is totally Hanged , and not able to operate even, too bad experiences with this purchase... I blindly trust on flipkart, but this time they are doing a fraud with trust...so many others problem are their, I suggest , please do not buy this product, if you have plaing for a long call then you can not bearing the hit...
1|Firstly I have concluded like everyone else the phone heating a lot. even on simple app using or browsing for few minutes on wifi (not even 3g) its heats up. and yes, even on quad core, there is lag some times, while playing on subway surfer, I noticed the screen touch just don't work few times. MIUI has some bugs as I noticed some unnatural flashing at bottom of screen. also the most disappointing the sound. very very poor audio levels. i thought it would be great as on website it has mentioned something as Smart PA for good audio levels. overall below average product for below average user. do not expect performance and value for money. just a look is Ok if u can ignore cheap quality back plastic.
1|plz dont buy this phone i got this phone i contact with flipkart they laging the issue 10 days they postponing the call every time . i got 45 degrees heat and i sended to then snap but no use . plz dont buy , i will be in issue . true 15 days used then only we are saying to users .
1|I have faced the below problem in this hand set 1.The PA speaker output sound is very low. I always miss the call. Dont go to buy it if you don't want to miss your calls. Though specification is good mentioned by the manufacturer, the basic requirement i.e. Ringing sound is very low makes the phone unusable. 2. I am having the back lit problem. Light is coming out from down right side of the phone(exactly down side to the Back and Home button). Escalated the issues to Flipkart. Hopping for a Quick resolution.
1|I bought this phone recently. And i ever seen so bad phone. sound is not working at all. i would suggest my friends do not buy this phone if this phone is not tested properly. this is my genuine feedbackthere is no ratings below 1 otherwise i could have done it
1|really good phone but must avoid due to one is the most terrible heating problem. and second 3050 mh battery wont even last half a day with moderate use. not worth spending the money. no matter what people say. i say the phone heats up and really heats up too much. requested flipkart for refund/ return but now since majority of people facing the heating issue flipkart is taking back step for return/refund request due to losses it will face caused by hundreds of return request of mi4i phones. people read the news don just read the reviews.
1|I have bought the Mi 4i and got delivery on 04/05/2015, after pre inspection i have got that it has major fault, its getting temperature more then 46 'C with in 15-20 min use of phone, if it use motre than that may be it will be blast too . regarding the matter i have discussed as well as complained to the flipkart, in reply they getting reference to his policies and wrote the re-grate text . Now i cant use my Mi 4i mobile because of fault and i have lost my money too After all i am the victim one of flipkart I never aspect-ed service like it form flipkart SO SAD
1|I bought Mi4i in first sale of Flipkart. facing following issues: 1) Internet doesn't work. Videos/ Playstore doesnt open even on 3G network. 2) It is heating up. 3) Flipkart guys dont return it if you want to get it replaced with another high valued phone. Dont waste your money. Gurpreet
1|Why don't flipkart refund back the amount to customers when customers are not liking their product after receiving it? They have just so many excuses.The brand new phone is heating like a iron but still they have solutions which are not working at all..By doing this they are losing their customer's trust.I have ordered so many things before but never got this problem.I didn't expected this.They themselves know after reading all reviews that the phone is heating then how they can cheat their customers like this.I want my refund.I don't want this phone.They can sell this phone to anyone else as there are many more to buy but what will i doof this phone if its having faults.My money is just wasted if they don't refund me.but they can get the same amount from others who wants to buy. Amazon and snapdeal service is too good in case of returns.they don't even ask a question about it.and here they just keep on calling again and again for reasons. I don't know why they have kept the return button only for those items which cannot be returned.This is cheating with customers.
1|After having Mi3 i thought of buying this phone but it was my worst mistake. The phone is heating to 42.C while calling, I have requested Customer Care executives to replace my phone or refund the amount, but the answer you get that we can only replace this phone after it reaches 45 C, when I had sent the screen shots that the phone is hitting 44 , they say that temp should reach 50C for replacement. Its better to file a complaint against flipkart in consumer court this time. Worst experince ever
1|i sold my redmi 3g note coz of this thinking it would be a better choice...Alas!this phone isnt worthy enough..it only looks good ,even in 10 min of use the phone starts getting heated.And this is happening in 1 day of use.I want to get my refund instead of replacement bcoz everyone with this mi 4i is getting this issue!!
1|1.Registered the product before 1 week. 2.Clicked on BUY button on the sale day. 3. Received the parcel,opened the box,charged the mobile. Phone didn't switched on .Again charged, phone got heated but never switched on. Requested for return two days back,till now no response. These phones are not tested properly before releasing into market.
1|I have got a cracked phone with scratches and right after taking the screen guard off, while the phone was kept idle it cracked again! I have no idea how the gorilla glass has given this any protection. As for the UI lags a little bit. Yes there is a heating problem as well. On the flipkart page it says that gaming should be great, but it lagged on a low end game such as Spiderman Unlimited and subway surfers! Charging time is also very high. This being my first Mi phone, I expected a much better experience. The worst part is that it was given to me as a BIRTHDAY PRESENT! So just think about how bad it would feel to recieve such a phone! I am hoping flipkart replaces this for a new piece. The pros of this phone are: Good looking themes and UI. Nice matte finish and loud speakers.
1|This is the worst phone in the world. Today only I received this product, once I switch on the handset,Touch screen itself not working properly. Camera clarity is worst in worst. Don't buy this mobile. For this worst phone I waited for countdown.
2|Me and my collegue bought the newly branded mi4i on apr 30 through flipkart, we are very much impressed by the specs and interface of this mobile. But when we switched on the mobile within a few minutes we faced a real heat from the newly bought mi4i, now we face a great heating issue even in a normal usage of this mobile (without opening any game apps), we were very much disappointed by this. Rather than the all the high level specs a mobile should provide a normal usage without any issues but this mobile failed in meeting that. What xiaomi is going to answer for this great disappointment, what will be the solution for this
1|I just received Mi 4i. When i took phone out tried to power on it wasn't starting. So plugged in charger , no charging sign was shown in phone & after 30 mins of charging Phone is not starting or charging.
1|I was eagerly awaiting for this phone & had high expectation for this phone. Looks,design etc look very exciting. But you use it for 10-15mins at a stretch I.e either call or browse or play game.Device becomes hot on the upper portion of mobile which becomes unusable for next 10-15mins. I think Mi4i is a mobile & not microwave to heat my ear!! Have registered complaint with flipkart on 2nd itself for replacement.They have given some troubleshooting updates to be done.Inspite of doing same its still heating. Flipkart has assured of calling back today i.e their product specialist.. I am waiting for replacement.
1|It might be a little early to review this product since I just got the product 5 hours back but it doesn't take someone much time to notice "dead pixels". Yes, the phone delivered by Flipkart is FAULTY. I can see something similar to dead pixels on the display. It's a dirt like patch of the top and is clearly visible with vibrant wallpapers. It's definitely not a scratch or some kind of mark that can be removed and I am sure is a manufacturing defect. Apart from this, Mi 4i has heating issues, call connectivity issues, lag issues and it takes takes ages for the phone to switch on. Didn't get much time to check the camera and sound quality but, with all these issues, I dont expect much. Overall rating should be in negative to Mi and Mi 4i. I have requested for return and hope Flipkart gives me a refund for this Faulty product. (Hope because there was no option of refund but I am sure Flipkart will consider it since the device delivered was faulty).
1|i had the worst experience with the order 1) the packing was not proper 2)the phone is getting heated 3)i did make a colour choice 4) no headsets 5)no proper coving / protection to the phone
1|Phone is good in design and light weight... Even some lags and heat issue. Heat issue very comman.. Even normal use make it hot. I got mi4i today and the surprise.....!!!!! Speaker not working.... What a jok. Very bad quality control by xiaomi. Dont go for it.... Buy other brand....like asus and lenovo. But not xiaomi. I lost my trust from this brand. This was my first xioami phone. Lg g2 is the best so far android phone i ever used. Flipkart replace the defective product please.
