0|5.0|Hello Friends! Surprised, eh? To see that the price of Mi 4i has been dropped to Rs.9999. If you are reading this review then surely you must be thinking of buying a new phone. You might also have considered other phones in this price range such as Lenovo K3 Note and Moto G 3rd Generation. I have all the three phones and I have extensively tested each one of them.I will solve your problem of selecting the best phone out of these 3 by giving you a massive comparison review.So, Let's get started! ( Note: If you have any doubts or queries regarding these three phones, please feel free to contact me on my email- kamalnayanbhatt@gmail.com. I will try my best to solve your doubts.) --------------------------- LOOK AND FEEL --------------------------- 1) Mi 4i--------- Mi 4i is really a beautiful phone. The moment you hold it in your hands, you will feel that this is a very premium phone. It is super-slim at 7.9mm and also fits in your hand perfectly. The back is matte finished and the phone does not feel slippery even if your hands are sweaty. It is a unibody kind of design and battery is non- removable. The buttons below the screen are backlit. However, you cannot add a memory card to this phone. Overall, this is a beutiful phone which looks quite premium. 2) Moto G3-------- The Moto G3 is the exact opposite of Mi 4i. It is heavier and is much more thicker. However, I am not saying it is bad at all. The phone seems very well-balanced and it has a curved back which gives a really good grip. There is the trademark Motorola dimple on the back in which you can rest your index finger. The back is textured and feels really nice to touch. The battery is non- removable because it is WATER -RESISTANT. Overall, it is a weel made phone and is comfortable to hold. 3) K3 Note------- K3 Note can never win a phone fashion contest. However, K3 is not that bad. The device overall feels solid. There are no gaps and the back cover fits perfectly. The back is matte finished and does not slip. It has thicker dimensions than Mi4i. However the buttons are not backlit. The back cover can be easily removed and the battery is also removable. The back cover is a bit thin so take care to remove the back cover carefully. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Mi 4i because of its premium and slim design. -------------- DISPLAY -------------- 1) Mi 4i------ The Mi 4i sports a laminated FULL HD 1080p display which is also very beautiful. It is super-sharp with a ppi of 441. The laminated display means that it feels like you are almost touching the pixels on the screen The viewing angles are amazing and colour, contrast and saturration is top-notch. The blacks are very deep and whites are very white. This one of the best displays in this price range. The display also has a technology called SUNLIGHT DISPLAY which automatically increases the brightness of the display under direct light. Not surprisingly, the sunlight legibility is great. The display is protecte by CORNING GLASS. 2) Moto G3---------- The Moto G3 loses completely in the display segment. It is a mediocre HD display which is 720p. The ppi is 261 which is very outdated considering today's phone. It is not as sharp as Mi 4i or K3 Note. However, it is a good display with balanced colour and decent contrast levels. The plus point is that the display is protected by a GORILLA GLASS 3. The sunlight legibility is also just OK. 3) K3 Note------------ The display of K3 is a bit lower than Mi 4i. The colours look a bit warm compared to balance colours on Mi 4i. The contrast and saturation is decent. However, I leave this to personal preference. The display is also Full HD 1080p and it is a joy watching movies on this thing. There is no Gorrila Glass, however you do get a hardened glass which is good for day-to-day use. It has 5.5 inch screen with a resolution of 1980x1080 which gives a 401ppi. Also, there is no pixalation. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Mi 4i because of its super-sharp display and amazing contrast. ------------------------------------------------ PERFORMANCE AND GAMING ------------------------------------------------ 1) Mi 4i--------- The Mi4i is powered by a Second-gen Snapdragon 615 which is an Octa- core chipset. It has 2 GB of RAM. The processor is very well optimized and performance is great and butter-smooth. It has never lagged even once while doing muti-tasking with even with 30 apps open in the background. Gaming performance is amazing after the latest MIUI 7 update. Earlier it used to heat like hell while gaming but now it dosen't heat that much. Played Asphalt 8 in medium graphics and the game ran extremely smoth. However, I noticed some frame- drops on High graphics in Asphalt 8. You can easily play high-end games such as MC5, GTA and Brother In Arms. Overall, this is an extremely smooth and powerful device. 2) Moto G3------------ Moto G3 has an inferior processor than Mi 4i and K3 Note. It has a Snapdragon 410 quad-core processor. It has two variants 1GB and 2 GB. However, as I have the 2GB variant, I will compare that one. Even though the processor may look out-dated on paper but thanks to STOCK ANDROID UI and Android Lollipop 5.1.1 the device performs excellently even with an inferior processor. Day- to -day usage was extremely smooth and opening apps was quite snappy on responsive. Multitasking was also good.Overall, no problems in everyday usage. However when playing high-end games like Asphalt 8 I noticed some lags in Medium graphics. I restarted the phone and again saw some lags. I don't know whether there is some problem in my device or this happens with every Moto G3. 3) K3 Note ------------ Here also day to day performance is buttery smooth. No lags even after running 30 plus apps in multi window.Coming to gaming , after the latest update gaming has very much improved. You can play heavy games but there are some frame drops here and there.But it stays cool after gaming. If you are OK with the phone getting hot, you should have no problems with Yureka+. For those who play less games K3 Note is great. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Mi 4i and K3 Note. ------------------------------ USER INTERFACE ------------------------------ 1) Mi4i------------ Mi 4i runs on MIUI 7 on top of android Lollipop. It is aheavily customized ROM. It looks very similar to iOS. It is avery clean and smooth app. It is very beautiful and overall the whole UI looks a piece of art. The animations are smooth and there are tons of themes so that you can customize your phone according to your liking. There is also a feature called daily lockscreen which changes the wallpaper of your lockscreen automatically each day. There are no lags in the UI and overall using this is a wonderful experience. 2) Moto G3---------- It runs on Android 5.1.1 and will receive the Marshmallow update soon. It is a completely stock version of android and very much optimized for the phone. It gives you the chance to explore pure android without and bloatware or modifications. Extremely smooth and snappy experience ! This is great for those who want pure android and also suitable for first time users. 3) K3 Note--------- K3 runs on VIBE UI, which is Lenovo's custom skin on top of Lollipop. It has a very flat design. There is no app drawer and all icons are in the homescreen. The UI is very refreshing and colourful. Double tap to wake and sign commands are there. Option of themes is also present. UI is very stable and not at all buggy. There is also some gesture control such as blink to take selfie and double press volume rocker to take a photo when device is locked. >>>>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Mi 4i because I think MIUI is really smooth and feature- packed. Also it is well - optimized and very colourful ! ------------- CAMERA ------------- (P.s. Check out the sample pictures from all the three phones that I have posted with the review) 1) Mi 4i-------- All the three phones have a 13 MP + 5 MP camerasThe phone has a 5MP front camera for clicking selfiesI noticed that there were absolutely no shutter lags and the focus was also very quick and steady. The pictures I took using the rear camera of the smartphone under direct sunlight came out pretty well with excellent level of detail, accurate colour reproduction and good contrast. Low-ligh images suffered a bit but still came out with decent details. 2) Moto G3---------- Pictures come out fairly detailed with minimal noise in daylight conditions. In indoor lighting and low light pictures were even better than Mi 4i. I was simply stunned by the quality of pictures the camera took. Also, as the phone is waterproof, you can try underwater photography ! Moto G3 is the best phone if you want an excellent camera. The selfie camera is also good but is not wide-angle. 3) K3 Note ---------- Both cameras perform quite well. Slightly better than Yureka. Front camera of Yureka give a slightly bluish tint but in K3 colours are natural. You need steady hands to shoot in low light, and the pictures come out great. The rear camera has full hd recording and the videos are great too. The pictures come out very good in daylight and the colours are vey accurate. Also, the 5MP selfie camera has Beautify feature which works great. >>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Moto G3. --------------- BATTERY --------------- 1) Coolpad Note 3------- Coolpad Note 3 has a 3000 mAh battery which last almost 1.5-2 days on light usage. If you are a heavy user like me then the battery will easily last the whole day. The battery ran for 11 hours, 26 minutes in video loop test which is pretty great. You can expect to get a full day of active usage from each charge, including games and a lot of Web browsing. 4G worked well and call quality was also good. 2) Yureka+---------- Yureka has a 2500 mAh battery compared to 2900 mAh of K3 Note. Battery easily lasts 1 to 1 and half days on moderate to heavy usage. YU says it has some feature on Cyanogen which gives 30% more battery. The phone also lasts a complete day on 3G. I cannot comment on 4G battery life, as I dont have 4G in my city. 3) K3 Note ------------ The battery is very good. Drains very less. Gives about 2 days of use on moderate to heavy usage. A clear winner among the two ! Even after gaming, the battery reduces very less. 3G usage can easily give 1.5 days of usage. >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> WINNER: Coolpad Note 3 and K3 Note. ----------- SOUND ----------- 1) Mi4i--------- It has Smart PA, which amplifies sound significantly and improves playback quality while protecting speakers from damage at high volume levels . Even though the sound is quite loud but it has little or no bass and depth. The speaker quality is between low and decent. However, the quality through earphones is quite nice and I enjoyed listenin through earphones. For watching videos and playing games the speaker manages to get the job done. 2) Moto G3------------ The front firing speaker is best among the three. It gives an awesome experience and the speakers also don't get covered with hand. The sound is rich and deep and surprisingly has good bass. Also the sound through earphones is good, rich and clear and leaves nothing more to be desired. This is a great package for audiophiles. 3) K3 Note ------------ Wow ! The sound is just so loud ! Crystal clear and deep. Also Dolby Atmos is there. It can only be used while using earphones, and the experience is awesome. True 360 degree surround sound. You have to hear it to believe it ! Easily beats Yureka+ hands down. It is the best sound I have ever heard on a mobile. The treble is perfect and bass is amazing. Also, the speaker consumes very little battery even at full volume. If you love hearing songs, this is the best phone for you! >>>>>>>>>>> WINNER : Moto G3 because of loud sound and amazing bass and fron position followed closely by K3 Note with it's Dolby Atmos. -------------- VERDICT -------------- All the three phones are excellent performers for the price. However there are some differences. If you want the pure Android experience, water-resistence and and excellent camera, Moto G3 is the perfect choice for you. On the other hand, If you want a stable UI, better sound, battery and simple UI, K3 Note is for you! On the third hand, if you want super-fast experience, excellent multitasking, fantastic display and good camera, Mi 4i is the choice for you !! All three of them have some drawbacks, but what more do you want from a sub- Rs.10,000 phone? The end decision is yours. Please read my review and make an informed decision. If you found my review helpful, don't forget to hit the YES button below. It motivates me to write more helpful reviews.
0|4.0|??????Price - 9/10 (? 12,999) Build Quality - 9/10 Specifications - 8/10 **NOTE TO BUYER** - If you need more than 16 GB, Xiaomi has launched a 32 GB Mi 4i. If you need a good cover, you can consider the Heartly Armour Case. - BREAKDOWN - Display - 9/10 Camera - 9/10 back and 8/10 front Speaker - 7/10 Battery - 8/10 CPU - 9/10 GPU - 8/10 ? PROS: - Premium feel, light as a feather - Superb form factor, comfortable to hold and operate - Clear screen, slim bezels, sunlight display really works - No heating issues with latest update and 2nd Gen Snapdragon processor - Sharp back camera, sufficient front camera - Dual flash for different light conditions - Decent battery, lasts one full day - Dual 4G sim - Smooth but limited MIUI 6, could be better - Great for gaming - Supports HEVC/H.265 videos natively, so great for movies and videos - Free Screenguard from Xiaomi if you register your mi 4i on their website ? CONS: - No Micro SD slot (This can be a dealbreaker) - Speaker could be louder - Phone is slippery despite matte finish, definitely requires a cover for grip - Not a big upgrade from Mi 3, apart from the processor - MIUI is not the best OS, I think vanilla Android is better - No point in 4G capability since only a few cities have 4G network ? IN THE BOX: - 5" Mi 4i - Rapid Charger and USB cable - Instruction manuals - Pin to open the sim card slot Sorry for the long review below, but I didn't want to miss anything :( - PHOTOS - I have attached some photos to this review, which I clicked with the Mi 4i. All the filters are in the MIUI camera app. I hope they can give you an idea of how good the quality is. I have also included the Xiaomi Mi Pad next to the Mi 4i to give you an idea of the size. They look like brothers. - FULL REVIEW - I owned a 1st Generation Moto G before I bought this, and I was not sure about the Mi 4i. The Moto G has no expandable memory, so I am stuck with 16 GB. I have always required more space because I like to carry a lot of music with me. But I ordered the Mi 4i despite this shortcoming, because apart from the memory issue it has great specifications. The packaging of Xiaomi products is very classy. It comes in a plain cardboard box with simplistic designing, and all the necessary accessories are included inside. Makes for a great gift. No headphones are included with the Mi 4i. You can check out an awesome pair of Xiaomi Mi Piston 2 headphones by clicking on the link. - PROCESSOR & UI - The Snapdragon 615 processor, 2GB RAM and MIUI 6 (User Interface) work together to deliver a nearly flawless experience. You can see that MIUI is heavily influenced by Apple iOS, while maintaining the open-source attitude of Android. Unlike the Xiaomi tablet, this Operating System works well on phone. The OS is updated regularly, and this version is based on Android Lollipop out of the box. The Snapdragon processor and native video player support the latest video format x265. This format fits full HD movies in half the space. This means 1080p movie in ~1GB! Gaming is smooth, Asphalt 8 and FIFA 15 run for hours without any lag whatsoever. I never experienced an overheating issue, but some users were reporting heating for intense 3D games and benchmarking apps. The issue should be resolved with this updated Snapdragon. All functions such as wifi and bluetooth work perfectly, and it does well under heavy multi-tasking. I find that the MIUI launcher has limited customisation. The best way to solve this is to install Nova Launcher. The premium features of this app are incredibly powerful and pirated APKs are available online. If you like the application, I urge you to buy it through the Play Store and support the developer, it only costs 200. - DISPLAY - The screen is vivid and does a great job with colours. Picture and video quality is outstanding, and colours are warm. I feel the Moto G has a brighter screen, but the Mi 4i has warmer colours. It is responsive and no touch-lag was noticeable. I personally don't like big devices, so I think the 5" screen is the right size for portability and usability. - CAMERA & AUDIO - The 13 MP main camera is well tuned and takes excellent pictures and videos. The front camera (for video chat) is also a decent 5MP and does good quality video recording. The dual flash is a great feature when you require lighting of a warmer kind. The mono speaker on the back is clear but could have been louder. The inbuilt DIRAC sound card has been specially designed to work with Xiaomi headphones. I have a pair of Mi Piston 2 headphones, and when you change the audio settings to match the headphones, it makes the bass thump and gives the sound a studio feel. The improvement is tremendous. - BATTERY - The battery lasts one full day, and charges to 40% at hyper speed if you use the included charger and cable. But for the size (3120 mAh) and big.LITTLE technology of the Snapdragon 615, I feel it should last longer. Unlike the Mi Pad, the Mi 4i phone does not have "performance" and "balanced" modes. - ISSUES - The biggest problem I have with the phone is that memory cannot be expanded. I carry a lot of data and like to use my phone as a portable storage device, but this is not possible with the Mi 4i. It only gives 12.77 GB to the user, which is even less than the 12.92 GB offered by my Moto G. Vice President of Xiaomi Hugo Barra explained that "microSD cards are vulnerable to failure and in most cases malfunction in various conditions". Although he is right, I think this is a compromise we must make to enjoy the benefits of more memory. If the memory cannot be expanded, then the phone must be available in 32/64 GB models. Google and Apple have also given up on expandable memory, because they want users to move to cloud storage. However, this is only feasible in western countries where wifi is almost everywhere. In India, access to the internet is not always available, which is why most people like to store their data on their device. Using the cloud to store data also creates more security risks, and I can't shake the paranoia of China trying to steal my information. Apart from this, the phone is very slippery despite the matte finish. I have already dropped it twice from about 3 feet height, but it has survived both times without scratches. You will definitely need to buy a cover for the phone. The grey colour is also more attractive than the white because it blends well with the screen and bezels. Lastly, MIUI is good for first-time smartphone users and dummies, but too limited for advanced users. Original Android would have been best, but no AOSP ROM is in sight. I feel these are important issues, which is why I reduced one star in the rating. -- VERDICT -- The Mi 4i has all the ingredients of a flagship and is outstanding value for money. But 13 GB of space and no expandable memory is stupid. Maybe the more expensive 32 GB version is a better choice. - THANKS! - Thank you for reading this far! If you found my review helpful, please consider clicking the "YES" button below :)
0|4.0|I bought the 32GB version of mi4i and reviewed it here: http://goo.gl/4lP6lJ I have used almost every device Mi has released yet and i was really satisfied by them.That's why i decided to buy the 32GB version of Mi 4i. If you were following my reviews,i have already reviewed the Mi4 here http://goo.gl/aKiIQP Xiaomi says that the Mi 4i was designed to be a flagship phone for the 'emerging markets'. The entire package is good enough for most people looking for a powerful mid-range phone. Apart from the storage capacity, the Mi 4i 32GB specs are the same. To recap, the Xiaomi Mi 4i features a 5-inch full HD (1920×1080 pixels) IPS OGS display. Under the hood is a second-generation 1.7GHz Snapdragon 615 octa-core (1.1GHz quad-core + 1.7GHz quad-core) 64-bit processor paired with 2GB of RAM. The smartphone also features a 13-megapixel rear camera, 5-megapixel selfie camera, and a 3,120mAh battery with quick charge support. Connectivity options include dual-SIM card slots with both supporting LTE, Wi-Fi 802.11 ac, Bluetooth 4.1, and GPS, and on the software front it runs on Android Lollipop-based MIUI 6. ------------------------------------ Lets start with the review ----------------------------------- #DESIGN -------------- Xiaomi decided to go with a simplistic design with the Mi 4i in sharp contrast with their previous releases, the Mi Note (and the Note Pro). The Mi 4i uses a very simple rectangle design that utilizes a polycarbonate battery cover that is non-removable. Its soft touch matte design feels very smooth and luxurious for a phone at its price range. Xiaomi says that the rear of the Mi 4i has an anti-grease coating that won't stain even if you mark it with a permanent pen, though I never tested that out. DISPLAY -------------- The Xiaomi Mi 4i features a 5-inch, full HD IPS display with 441ppi (pixels per inch). Its got a great screen which is far superior in sunlight readability or outdoors than the competition . I compared the Mi 4i's display with the Mi 4 and saw that its older sibling displays more vibrant colors and overall better color definition. But it doesn't make mi4i inferior ,in real life scenarios probably you cant see the difference unless you really i need to. PERFORMANCE ------------------------- Xiaomi uses the Snapdragon 615 processor, which the company says was especially tweaked by Qualcomm for the Mi 4i. The second generation version of the 615 uses a slightly faster main cores (four cores running at 1.7GHz) and four 1.1GHz lower energy consumption cores for mundane tasks. Paired with the 615 processor is 2GB of RAM plus the 32GB of non-expandable storage. The Mi 4i got a score of 42418 via Antutu, which is a pretty decent score for a phone at its price range. Heating ------------- As its snapdragon 615 the heating issue is kind of a normal.But still xiomi did there best in tweaking it for mi4i and helped reduce the heating to some extent. The Mi 4i is no exception ' under full throttle, the phone registered a very hot 44.5 degree Celsius. But it wasn't uncomfortably hot to hold, rather like the Mi Note Pro. With normal browsing, the phone reaches up to 36 degrees Celsius, dropping to 33 in standby Mode.. Will update the review after upgrading to MIUI 7. CAMERA --------------- Xiaomi Mi 4i is equipped with a 13-megapixel rear camera with dual-tone LED flash, along with a f/1.8 aperture for extraordinary low light performance.Even though there is no optical image stabilization the pictures came out really sharp. The color reproduction is fairly on the higher side and you surely can't get something better at this price. Talking about the selfie,The wide angle lens again wins over most of the selfie crazy phones at this budget.Which again is a plus point. In terms of overall video recording the quality is really good and the noise cancelling microphones does a great job. Battery -------------- Good battery life Xiaomi has equipped the Mi 4i with a 3k+mAh battery. This allows the phone to go around full day of normal use with browsing, calling and watching videos in Facebook. and much more. The battery gets recharged pretty quickly considering the capacity. Didn't notice any quick draining as of yet. Conclusion ---------------- Its really worth investing over the MI4i 16GB.I would surely recommend the 32GB version if you don't wanna carry OTG pen drives everywhere you go. ---------------------- One Last thing ---------------------- Just in case if you read my whole review and liked it, then please consider clicking on the 'YES' button below. Have a nice day...
0|1.0|Don't buy this piece of crap and waste your money. Has serious network issues and can't latch on to a network for more than a few minutes. My cheap ass Micromax phone with single band HSPA performed better in terms of connectivity than this s***ty Chinese novelty. And if you are having a bad day already, you might just end up breaking this dummy into pieces.
0|5.0|I got this phone at a discount of Rs. 3000/- from Amazon during the sale week. I was initially skeptic of buying it as many had reported heating issues. However, i still went ahead with it as these issues have been reported to be countered by recent MIUI updates which regulate the processor performances to avoid overheating. The product came in well before delivery date and did give out heating signs on first boot. However, I quickly got the MIUI updated to the latest version and haven't experienced any heating ever since. All in all, the phone is light, slim and gives out a premium vibe. The camera is really good and lives upto expectations. This is a real steal in this range. Go for it if your budget is between 10-13k!
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Must buy. Gets heated up a lot but I've asked for a replacement, and hopefully the problem wont persist. Battery : Takes a long time to charge, but charge stays for around 24 hours with decent usage. Display : Best in class. Everything looks SO much better in HD display, my friends are all so envious of the display. Front cam : It says only 5 MP, but the photos taken are amazing. Back cam: Makes me wonder if I am using a DSLR. It's that good. Heating : Phone heats up a LOT but I've put a good back cover so I dont feel it much. Note, there is an update available which claims to reduce the heating problem. MIUI : The user interface is okay-ish. A little uncomfortable initially, but you can get used to it and then it will be decent enough. Volume : Speaker volume and quality is decent. But alarm volume is not very high. Memory : Only 16GB, but the user is left with around 10GB, which is good enough for any average person with 1000 photos and 2000 songs :P There might still be a few GB left over. Overall it's an excellent buy, a steal at this price. The display in (OP in gaming language) out of the world, and the cameras are both awesome. The memory limit doesn't really bother you much and an update is all it takes to get rid of the heating problem. Buy it blindly.
0|5.0|This is an amazing phone at the price-point by Mi. I am blown away by the display quality, the build quality and the beautiful UI. The cameras - both front and back are very very good too and produce quality images. The battery on moderate to heavy use easily lasts a day and a half. I was originally targeting a sub 10k phone and even ordered and received the Yureka Plus. That phone turned out to be garbage. It overheated, the battery drained and the display quality was poor compared to what was advertised. There were issues with Cyanogen as well. So, better sense prevailed and I returned it to Amazon after 2-3 days of painful use. When amazon reduced prices on all Mi devices by a 1000 I decided to stretch my budget a bit and pick it up. And boy am I glad that I did. This phone feels like a quality product in hand. Unlike, I am afraid to say Micromax or Yu devices (both of which I have owned), which feel flimsy and unreliable. I got this phone in yellow and the colour is beautifully mellow. Understated (despite being yellow!). A quality device. I'd recommend buying it without thinking twice if it is in your budget. Ps - I couldn't find too many normal camera images of the yellow coloured device when I was looking for them before buying, so am posting one here for others who might be looking.
1|5.0|Item Mi4i received in good condition earlier than expected even Very good choice by me. Today is the first date of usage/ Performance very good. Only thing it gets/feels slightly warm, when kept in shirt pocket. I dont know, if it is going to be so, OR whether this small warm feeling will go away after few days! The Letters for text on phone and sms are small. Earlier samsung I was used to larger text. The Virtual Key Pad is also small. When using fingers, it quickly touches adjacent buttons and we have to keep correcting it! Two things: (i) The Mobile Box didnt have 'handsfree set" - Only phone & charger were there (ii) The User Manual should havea small U shpe pin to help open the SIM Compartment- It was missing Please check and get me the same
1|1.0|It is a refurbished phone not a new one check out the screen shot attached and I will share it on facebook. and every social media to aware everyone about this. Despite of all technical glitch, Amazon cust. service and assurance is flawless..
1|5.0|I placed the order of Mi4i on 13th October, and I got it on 15th October. First of all, Thanks to amazon for such fast service, Product Quality was good. After setting up my Mi4i. I Loaded some apps and installed some of my favorite . i.e. Asphalt 8, Minion Rush, Shadow Gun, Angry Birds 2. I played all of them and I was amazed to see the graphics and performance of the games. With the help of Performance mode, The games run butter smooth.I own also a Lenovo K3 note, which sucks like hell, you cant play high graphics game as it starts getting laggy in K3 Note.But Hats off for Xiaomi. Camera Quality is way better than other products. In rs 9999 its a steal deal. Go for it P.S. : Some people are facing heating Issues, I need to inform those people that Xiaomi has already released an Software Update via OTA, v6.5.5.0. From My side I don't face even 1% heating issue. But still if you are facing heating Issues, Go get Lenovo K3,Which has cheap mediatek processor,over bloated UI,0% Performance.
1|1.0|Dear friends don't buy Mine 4i, because it is getting too much over best, you can cook omlet on it, so please understand, don't be a fool
0|3.0|It is an average device. Main problems I faced till now(after 36hrs)... 1) Taking too much time for getting fully charged. 2) rear camera is not good in low light, too much noise. 3) not as smooth performance as should be afterall it has octacore processor and 2 gb ram. 4) battary backup is avarage. 5) display is not 440ppi, I'm sure. Good things about mi4i 1) front camera, superb also in low light. 2) build quality. 3) some extra features related to notifications. 4) cool look, easy to hold. 5) good OS. Finally I am thinking to return this product. It's not value for money.
0|1.0|Got it on discount for 9999....it doesn't even worth the price....feeling very said. Should hv bought one pluse 2. It's hangs a lot believe me a lot!!!!!!!!!!!! It's a s***ty phone...I don't know why so many people are rating it so good. All the good reviews are useless.... Don't believe them....
0|1.0|DO NOT Buy this product (Mi 4i). For 10 days it was working fine or may be I took time to be comfortable with this phone (Mi 4i) and suddenly found that phone getting restarted intermittently plus when I click on Camera it says "Can not connect to camera. Try rebooting your device." It had gone 10 days + since I bought this phone so Amazon rejected the replace order. I tried calling Mi support but they are just not listening and providing useless ideas to fix this issue.Do not know what to do. It is Amazon who irresponsibly providing platform to cheaters for cheating with our hard earned money.
0|3.0|Phone is okay for the price. There is a slight heating problem, more than usual for smartphones. Anybody who has owned a smartphone knows that every phone heats up on extensive gaming and wifi use. My problem was that the Charger Adapter that came with the handset was faulty, didn't work. Amazon said the whole item had to be replaced but i was fine with the phone. Xiaomi has a lot of ground to cover and offer better services to its customers and better products.
0|3.0|I received order yesterday.. I ordered it on16 oct.. And received on 23 oct. Phone is good. Pricewise value for money. But it is bit slow. RAM is inadequate. Camera nice. But bit slow.. In Games closes suddenly. Very slow. Loading very slow. Battery discharges faster on wifi.. 5 hr battery back when wifi and gaming is on. But for 10000 rs its ok. Dont expect much features in this price. Phone very slim slippery fallen thrice in one day hope i will get adapted. If looking for good battery?, gaming, wifi, speedy phone dont purchase. Heating problem very little. Hope u will get some help from my review
1|1.0|Got a product with nice pkg on next day..when I power on the mobile it took more than 20 min for set up and when starred showing display not able to use it as the display automatically going off..touches /Android buttons were not working. Awaiting for replacement from past 7 days...yet no status of despatch from Amazon. The same mobile I ordered from Snapdesl looks awesome...I doubt as amazon has sent a refurbished / problematic mobile.
1|1.0|Mi 4i (16GB, Grey) This product is totally waste.. dont go for MI brand at any cause.. worst mobile i have ever experienced. Actually i used to try different company mobiles.. this one is totally worst.. I want to know whether MI have any testing team or not? I bought MI4 - not even switched on. I charged for 8 hours. it was just saying enabling quik boot.. Another MI4 - this time its switched on.. but address bar location in screen was not working at all. after doing couple of tests and found lot of issues. finally refunded both mobiles. Again bought MI4I - this mobile was working first two or three days.. then now menu bar (back button, menu button, settings) is not working at all.. Please dont support this kind of lethorgic mobiles. totally waste of cost, time and energy. I'm trying to control my words otherwise i will put all bad words.
0|1.0|Please Never Buy this Device... i Know most of you like me will think that it is a Spam or some other seller wants to lower the reputation of MI But Believe me: Quality of this phone is soo bad that in just 10 days and a very small pressure while sleeping has broken its screen and its hairline scratch, but phone stopped respond to the touch, now a phone without touch is of no use.. i am regretting my purchase.. Earlier i have used HTC One and Samsung Galaxy s5, even the fall from my hand, had several small screen breakage but never stopped working. Please go for some good product, their Build quality is worst. i just bought this on Million day sale and look within 10 days, i am again with no phone and my hard earned 10k went to loss.
0|5.0|Superbbbbbbbb..... Awesome awesome Awesome..... I just love this phone.. Was bored with Black/White mobiles... I bought YELLOW color Mi4i and its definitely an eye catcher!!!! Check the pics I uploaded. You will get an idea on the size of this phone also 4.7" Sony Xperia J - 5" Mi4i - 7.9" Mi Pad comparison pic i have uploaded for those folks who wanna get an idea on the size of mi4i :-) Amazon! Very nice service guys... Doing good. Opted for 2 days delivery, got it next day itself! Support on queries over various products were also nice.
0|4.0|Excellent phone with the best camera...
0|1.0|1st time i bought it looking at the reviews. it had technical fault and asked for return. i got another one and this one too is having internet problem. only whatsapp works for mobile data and i cant even do a google search. even if i switch and off the phone & mobile data. external search works for only 20 secs. even i cant download any app in play store. seriously f*****g mobile i have ever seen. WORST! very WORST! moreover AMAZON's 10 days return policy is too less. Please have a return policy for atleast 20 days. Seriously I suffer buying this mobile. Can't able to return also.
1|1.0|The product has faults, not meeting the expectations. It is getting over heated even if you speak for 1 minute. The screen starts blinking if you want to use Camera settings. The camer lens/shutter is not is not properly fixed. Batttery getys discharged very fast even though it is being used only for call. (no games, no videos, etc)
0|5.0|i always wanted to buy a good smart phone...... with all the features and a good camera....... and my budget was 13,000..... i can just say one thing this is the best phone in such a low budget... with excellent sound clearity... awesome front and back camera... light weight.. and a very attractive look . which everyone wants........ mi4i box didnt contain an earphones so i purchased skullcandy earphones... these earphones are giving an amazing sound. i got this phone just for 9,999....and it was delivered with 2 days......
0|1.0|Have bought this phone on Diwali sale. Got the phone yesterday . Had basic expectations regaridng phone Byt sorry to say touch is very poor and the speaker of the phone is as bad as a chineese local phone... When you play music at medium volume the speaker starts bursting and sound comes very poor Full volume of rungtonw is quite low ... Seems like a chineese cheap phone Mynadvoce dnt read fake reviews here.. I have initiated for a refund lest hope i get refund
0|1.0|I am having a very bad expeiernce with this phone ( Mi4i) . All the time this phone is hanging .Several times in a day I have to reboot the phone however memory is completely empty as there are no songs and games in the phone . This phone is complete wastage of money . One should not just go for the specifications mentioned on the paper . Moto’s phones are much better than Xiomi even their specifications on paper looks very less in comparison to Ximo
0|5.0|Loved the phone.... Was in great dilemma after seeing all the negative customer reviews (heating, call drop, call quality ,battery etc. etc.) on nearly all sites. Still I liked the look and spec of the mobile. Somehow I made up my mind that I ll take a chance. The main turning point was that it is available on Amazon ( mobile was delivered to me in exact 15 hrs after ordering - marvellous). It was only because i had lot of confidence on Amazon ( and its return policy to be specific) i bought it from Amazon and not any other e-tailer. The phone proved my expectation correct - fantastic looks , great performance , superb call clarity , well thought music player, superb camera quality and the great and stunning sunlight display. Good phone at a great price.
0|1.0|[[ASIN:B0104ZR8E6 Mi 4i (16GB, White)] TOO MUCH heat, dont buy we can prepare omlet if you are speaking more than 2 min., i asked for replacement, even after replacement also same problem. I dono how inidian govt allowing such worst product in market, if you are using this phone continuously for sure people will be deaf soon. Atleast they can provide free headset in the box but its not there.. TOOOOOO BAAAAAAAD.
0|1.0|My worst phone purchase ever.... it stopped working with in 10 days! Mother board failed as per Mi service center. Now I am stuck with rude Mi Service center at Cochin. They are inaccessible over phone. will have to go all the way there to hear from that it will take 15 days more. I would never by any Mi Products due to their poor quality product and inadequate service facility.
0|1.0|Let's talk the obvious first-- I am huge fan of Amazon. "No one" comes close to what amazon can do. Period. Now the real issue: I bought Mi4i in October 3rd week. It got swiftly delivered in a day (since I paid for 1 day guaranteed delivery). But the it reached me, I had to urgently leave for Jharkhand for family reasons. The amazon package was yet to be opened. I arrived at Mumbai yesterday. When I tried switching on my Mi4i, it didn't. I thought maybe the battery would have died. So I plugged it to charge throughout the night (one thing I noticed all this while was that 'the Mi logo kept flashing all the time' but nothing further happened. I tried switching on several time. But nothing worked. Knowing Amazon will easily take care of this like it always does, I called them up complaining about the "faulty" product I was accidentally sent. However they refused a replacement as "10 days replacement guarantee is over". One thing they fail to understand that the product was " defective " since the Beginning. That Amazon shipped me a faulty phone. P.S. the phone is in brand new condition. Let alone using, it's the first time i have touched it.
0|4.0|First things first. There is no Video Calling option. You have to use a third party app like Hangouts, Skype, etc. This phone is well built. Fell down about 5-10 times, luckily no damage. Applying various coupons and cashback I managed to get this phone for 8500/-. It is just worth that money and not a penny more. Battery: It stays for nearly one day without charging. I am an typical user, syncing my phone every second. Still it manages to stay till 9pm in the night. RAM usage: Everytime you clear all your apps, It still uses 1.3gb of RAM. Leaving only 700mb of 2gb available. Speed: Not really great. It loads up things just like my previous phone Redmi 1s. Technically there could be a difference, but you would hardly notice it. Heating: There is not much of heating when compared with other smart phones. A+ on that. Others: 1. Great camera. 2. Great UI response. No lag noticed. 3. Occasionally reboots automatically. 4. Frequent disconnect from Mobile Data, and takes time to automatically connect. 5. No internal memory
1|5.0|This was a replacement for my iPhone 5 but no worries. The change from Apple to Android went smoothly (see my blog: https://goo.gl/1zdgHe). It's a very easy to use and I figured out most of the functions with the help a couple of youtube videos. I'm no techie but I found no lagging or heating while watching videos though it crashed once while shooting a video. Battery lasts till night if there is no heavy use. The phone is also quite light and sleek - I put on an aluminium bumper case to protect it without adding too much weight. One issue. There was no headset in the box so I had to buy the Mi in-earphones from the Mi Store for Rs 999. Not too bad as I got the phone itself for Rs 9999. In fact, I was so impressed by Xiaomi that I bought the Mi Band too for Rs 799. However my wife was a bit worried about my wearing the band 24/7. So I did some research, and was surprised to find that the mobile industry is hiding the fact that its electromagnetic waves may be damaging our DNA and causing other health issues. So I blogged about that too. But that's another story (https://goo.gl/9rZqzH)
0|5.0|Hi MIuns, I have purchased Mi4i in October 17, 2015 online and still there is not at all any problem I faced with my Mi4i-16GB. Its functioning verrrrrrryyyyyy good. Specially I would like to appreciate the battery life, its amazing. I have to charge battery just twice in a week, verrrryyyyy excellent performance. Operating system is really excellent. Recently I have updated it to MIUI7 very easily. Other notable qualities that meet my expectations compared to any other reputed branded mobiles in the market & I have: Good Sound Quality. Classic Appearance. Lightweight. Easy Settings that optimize its performance. Excellent Camera both front & rear, Very good picture & Video quality. Powerful Battery. Operating system, apps functioning wonderfully. Still it has many places to improve with new technology but is fine at the moment. Finally, I would say it has fulfilled all my expectations, I feel purchase of Mi4i is worth & wise decision I have taken. Thank You Xiomi. Makarand.
0|4.0|I have bought this product during holidays for INR 9999. Product delivered perfectly on time as promised. Now after using this mobile for 1 month, here's my review: Pros: (1) Camera quality is real good. (2) If you are ok with custom skin, then MIUI will be fantastic for you. I have updated to MIUI 7 and it has improved my phone's performance a tad. (3) I have installed two-three heavy games, they run without glitch so far. (4) Phone is light and slick and easy to hold in your hand. Cons: (1) Heating problem is there, if you take simultaneous 10-15 photos, phone heats up, but it cools down fast and for normal usage you can manage with the heating. But if you are an all-time gamer or all-time talker then probably it's not for you. (2) The sound quality can be much better, the microphone is ok but speaker quality can be much improved. Overall verdict: If you are looking for a mobile for a specific purpose (Gaming/Photo/Music), then it's not for you. It's a cheap phone for average user. And it's absolutely value for money if I get 15% discount on INR 9999 because of HDFC card in future. You will not get this a phone with this specs and quality anywhere in INR 8500.
0|5.0|Best phone upto 15k range. Worth buy. Camera: Best upto 25k phones, I was not able to differentiate the same picture which was taken from iphone 6 and from mi4i. You can capture & put that photo as your wallpaper. I have uploaded some pictures which was taken by me with the same phone. Battery: This is the only con in mi4i. Its not upto that mark if you will use mobile data continuously. It will work upto 15-18 hours in 2g and 10-12 hours in 3g. But if you use wifi then it will defntly work for one & half day minimum. There is no heating problem at all as people mention that phone heats more..bla..bla.. Its normal heating there, Even iphone also heats upto that limit. Speed: 2gb ram is given but user can utilize only 1gb. So all pre installed app & main function will run on that 1gb Part which is not for user,, its good. In remaining 1gb, all app will run which will be installed by user. Game: I dont know why people play game in mobile phones even after avilability of laptops..computer..xbox etc.. Mobiles are not for playing hames at all.. I never played any game in mobile so i cant tell you the performance about gaming. Look: Perfect, you will love it.. without cover it seems an extraordinary mobile with curvey shape at the coorners, Best look.. Overall: Its a worth buy product upto 15k range even the best product in that range. Just go for it..you will love it.
0|5.0|I bought this phone around a month back after doing my research for a long time. I had Samsung note 1 previously which I bought for 35k. In 3 years it became extremely slow even after few formats and a battery change. I was not able to whole heartedly buy a new phone because of the huge amount invested in the old phone. So I decided to buy low cost phones always because for 10 k you have the liberty of even purchasing a latest phone each year or whenever you feel like upgrading . Finally I decided to buy either MI 5 if it is launched soon or mi4i ( if price drops ) . Finally, I bought this phone for 8500 ( 9999 mrp - 10 % cash back) 16 GB version Mi4i did not make me feel like I am using a low cost phone at all. The phone is excellent for this price. I bought this because many people suggested MI is always value for money. Cam clarity: Cam clarity is good. But my brother using Samsung s5 says his cam is better than this. Photos and videos on my phone looks great. Haven't yet checked and compared in laptop with my previous Samsung note or my brothers Samsung s5. Compared in few of my friends phones in the same price range and this one is better than theirs Speakers : Average. Processor: Great speed even without using performance mode Heating issues: I am an average user. Did too much of talking and browsing. Did not do gaming. Did not face any heating issue. I updated 4g SIM few days back. Only one time I faced very little bit heat. it is not unmanageable. not sure if it is because long browsing over 4g network. Even I am typing this review for more than 30 to 45 minutes in non air-conditioned room over WiFi. Did not face any heating issue. Battery : Great battery backup. Phone is definitely working for at least 1 day (24 hours) for average to above average user. I use 4g while leaving outside home. After coming home turn off 4g and switch to WiFi. I always have network on. I don't switch to 2g or 3g for battery saving. Weight: Extremely light weight. The phone is easily holdable in hand and 5 inch is easy to operate in single hand OS : Miui is but different than plain vanilla android but it is good and simple. STORAGE: The only caveat in this phone is no expandable memory. For an average user I think he need to backup once in 2 or 3 months. I liked 32gb variant. But only the 16 GB came with the exciting offer. Overall great buy and great product from Mi.
0|5.0|I bought the white Mi4i and what a marvellous piece of art it is. In the below review, I will stick to only a few points where a new buyer would want clarity. I have been using it for a week now. About the software: The icing on the cake is Xiaomi's own software (UI) which provides options galore for the control freak. At every stage, there is an option for whatever you want to do there. Cant get more intuitive than this. Permissions given to individual apps can be controlled. Actions that would take several clicks on any other android phone can be achieved in just one or two. Even the screen size can be altered for one-handed use with just a swipe. About the hardware: The dimensions of the phone are just excellent. Very thin, very light, very balanced. With a thin bexel, it does not feel wide. It can easily be held in one hand. The outer polycarbonate body is not damage-proof as some videos might suggest. The white shell is also very slippery in the hand. This phone needs a case (I suggest the Nillkin rubberised case from Amazon). About the heating problem: There is no heating problem when used normally. I have done everything with this except gaming. And the warmth generated is very mild. About the radiation problem: Even though the radiation levels are well within Indian specifications, this phone is among those with higher radiation levels. Better to use good ear-phones for long use. About the camera: The camera is excellent. But video-recording in full HD produced less than optimum results. Battery: For me, the battery lasts a day and half with about an hour of talktime but with almost continuous use of wifi for browsing and downloading files. Overall an emphatic 'buy' rating for the price.
0|5.0|DO TAKE SOFTWARE UPDATE V6.5.5.0 OR ABOVE FOR ELIMINATING HEATING ISSUES 1. Heating issue of the processor I have used the device for about a day without updating the software to v6.5.5.0. Observed pretty heavy heating while multitasking. After updating the software, trust me, the heat emitted by the gadget is very less.. While multi tasking with multiple apps opened such as facebook, whatsapp, message etc the heat temperature measured is only 43° which is pretty acceptable, tested the same with a friend in his mi3, even he got the measured temp of above 50° in same conditions... So xiaomi have very well controlled the heat emitted by the hardware sd615, which is well known for emitting large volume of heat.. But do remember, take the latest software update!!! 2. Antutu benchmark scored about 39k in performance mode and about 28k in balanced mode... I believe these are pretty good scores in terms of performance... 3. Is heavy gaming possible with mi4i? will it emit more heat while heavy gaming? My answer would be mi4i can handle pretty heavy gaming.. Atleast see d antutu scores... I have played asphalt8, one of the most 3d complex game available in the market, for continuously about 20mins, measured temperature of the device after that never exceeded 55°..these are pretty acceptable standards for any gadgets, i believe... 4. Is lollipop miui6 have any difference than its kitkat version? Absolutly no.. Miui6 skin over kitkat or lollipop looks pretty identical, i cannot spot a single difference between those.. Moreover miui6 over€ kitkat or lollipiop, it already have 90% features of the lollipop, including on screen notifications... 5. For techies around here, as compared to mi3, mi4i only have a single system on which rom is installed, so forget about dual boot here.. Also mi4i initially had user available storage space of about 11gb, which is 1gb less than that of mi3. I could understand this is because of the heavy lollipop
0|5.0|After my try out with multiple phones, I decided to give a shot with Xiaomi phone and chosen Mi4i. Before purchasing it I was suffering with following issues with my older phones that I was hating to meet again in a newer phone. 1. Proximity sensor issues [Faced with Lumia 520, Yu Yuphoria] 2. Power button issue [Lumia 520] 3. Short of internal memory [Android one/ Micromax A1] 4. Call receiver speaker non-functioning or with low volume [Karbonn Titanium Dazzle S201, Nokia C3-00] 5. Wifi issue/Baseband issues [Samsung Galaxy R] I got faster delivery, Thanks Amazon for your quick service. Phone build quality : Excellent. Craftsmanship! Phone stability : Superb. Baseband ,calling quality : super Wifi behavior : Excellent MIUI : Stock android is always better. UI not so great but still its fine. This is only negative I found so far. Battery life : Waw! Display QUALITY : Superb! Any thing wrong I found : NO! So overall go for it! Its good phone and as I purchased taking all discounts...for me its super value for money!
0|4.0|Hi Guys, I'm writing this review for MI 4I. I bought this phone during mid Oct sale and have had a pleasant experience till now. Listing the things I liked the most : 1)This phone looks great in hand and is light on weight. The display is super with 1080 x 1920 pixels resolution. 2) It is slim and has a poly carbonate back cover. 3) I loved the User Interface designed for MI. The phone continued to amaze me with distinguishing feature. One hand touch, double tap and open message from lock screen,swap camera by scrolling finger up/down,pocket lock,pinch zoom notifications etc to name a few. 4) Camera quality is brilliant. I captured some pictures with back camera and with One plus 2 camera. The picture quality was comparatively better in MI4I 5) In comparison to other phones for same configuration , MI 4I is priced less Things I didn't like : Heating issue- Though with the recent MI4i update,the heating issue is solved to great extent. So I won't complain more on this. Overall - Great buy. Great technology and innovation.
0|4.0|MI 4I (Yellow) Overall rating 8/10 After using for 15days I'm typing my review First of all thanks to Amazon for quick delivery, I have opted for two day delivery but I received within a day! I have got this mobile for rs10000 in offer, best deal! Camera : Awesome quality, Rear one good and Front camera is best one to take selfie. Processor : 1.7Ghz Snapdragon great speed. Though 2GB RAM OS occupies nearly 1GB, but speed is good even after installing more apps. Games - good response and good graphics quality Touch : Really touch sensitivity is very nice. Heating : I have got some heating issues but after updating my OS to MIUI 6.7 the issue is resolved Don't consider negative reviews or feedback, just update or format ur OS the issues will get resolved. Weight : very compatible one, light weighted and easy to handle MIUI : I really love it, awesome themes and wallpaper. A unique look At this price no other mobile Will compete, don't consider negative feedback just go for it. Perfect specifications at this price and quality of xiaomi MIUI is awesome and great
0|4.0|The phone comes in completely sealed box so no issue of phone to be refurbished. The delivery was quick. Talking about the phone, it is a great value for the price that you pay. I've been using it since 4 days and I'm delighted by the performance of this phone. All heavy games and multitasking flows smoothly and does not lag, so the ram and the processor does its job efficiently. Though phone gets heated, but its very rare and theres no serious heating issues as other reviewers has exaggerated of it getting heated like an iron press. So don't worry about it and just go for it. Taking about the camera , it really captures great snaps even in dark. I've also compared its picture quality with nexus 5's camera and I found that mi4i 's snaps were comparable to that of nexus 5 and at night mi4i captured better quality image than nexus. Front camera too has stunning capture capabilities. Also it has dual tone led flash light which is more brighter. Display is also awesome. Battery lasts for one full day(normal use_internet_casual gaming) So don't think too much,if this phone fits in your budget you should definitely go for it because at this price, this is the best you can get....
0|4.0|I amsubmitting my review after using mi4i 32 GB for 1 month and I would honestly confess that I had become great fan of the phone. Pros 1. It's sleek design and sturdiness screen has gorilla glass .I had dropped it without cover and screen guard but phone sustained without any damage 2. Smart themes really love few 3. It's smooth and fast . the phone has never hung since 1 month. It's 2gb ram and processor is awesome 3. Camera is mind blowing with HDR quality option. Even front camera is smart and photos are awesome. 4. Speaker and sound quality upto mark 5. Mi cloud storage is added option Cons 1. No SD card slot .but you can manage with 32 GB internal.memory 2. No flash for front camera. Truly speaking you don't require one the image quality is good enough even in dark. 3. Battery back up is average although it's 3060 mah . but phone charges very fast. 4. It does gets heated up fast but its not very troublesome. Overall I really liked this phone and would recommend to buy if you are bored with Samsung HTC Sony. Its features are like iPhone with economical price.
0|5.0|Awesome phone. Great service by amazon. Fastest free delivery. Mi 4i is superb phone in this price range. Realy u will enjoy. Just blindly go for it. I purchsed 3 mi products from amazon sellor is e-mobiles. Very good seller. Best value for money. It is a monster phone. Very simple to use but fastest phone in avg price range.dont know what is hang in this phone lol. But if u are searching for the best ear phone for mi 4i. Then browse mistore given in ur phone and buy mi in ear head phone just @999.this is the place where u get the genuine ear phone for mi. In other shopping site it is fake. Still maximum ear phone support it. But mi in ear earphone is realy awsome at least way better then sanheiser and sony and skulcandy and jbl in the range till 2500.it is realy cheap and best. The sound effect and bass awsome. I compared it with others and took risk to buy it cz less coments are there for its in ear earphone. But realy it is the best of best to my mi 4i.even it is working with other devices. Love it
0|5.0|Thanks for Great Indian Festival Sale of AMAZON and 15 % Cash back of HDFC. The price of phone is biggest factor, finally I got this phone around 8.5 K. So much satisfied on Amazon One Day Delivery. Why all are going for Xioami brand 1. Under budget price giving good reasonable product 2. Strong battery backup 3. Integrating all third party software such as cleanup, DU battery saver etc. within MIUI 4. Premium Display Quality 5. Awesome Touch sensitivity _____________________________________________ Features : Dual-SIM dual-standby capability 5.0" 1080p IPS capacitive touchscreen, 441ppi (Note : iPhone 6 only have 326ppi) Octa-core Cortex-A53 CPU (4x 1.7GHz plus 4x 1.0GHz), 2GB of RAM, Adreno 405 GPU; Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 chipset 13MP autofocus camera, dual-LED (dual-tone) flash; HDR, Panorama 1080@30fps, 480p@120fps video recording 16GB of built-in storage Cat. 4 LTE (150/50Mbps); Wi-Fi b/g/n; Bluetooth 4.1; GPS/GLONASS; FM radio; microUSB 3,120 mAh battery capacity 3.5mm headphone jack, active noise cancellation with a dedicated mic Android 5.0.2 with MIUI v6.0 Cons: No memory expansion only. Final verdict : Value for money.
0|5.0|After spending a year with the Redmi 1S, I was completely in love with Xiaomi products! Bought this one because the 1S was running out of battery and memory quickly. This upgrade has definitely been worth it. I don't face any memory or battery issues now, and the phone is so totally awesome :) It's very light weight and slim and doesn't come pre-installed with any bloatware software, that's why I love MIUI because the features baked-in are power packed. The other problem I faced with the 1S was video recording and audio quality, which have completely gone away with the 4i. It's been one month now since I've had this phone, and I am more than happy with it plus I'm a very satisfied Amazon customer because I got this phone for Rs.1000 less. This phone reminds me a lot of my old iPhone 4S, with a very similar look and feel, which I was so relieved to let go of. My advice to you: If you're looking for a budget flagship phone, THIS IS IT!! Look no further, #MiFan over and out.
1|5.0|I was afraid to buy this phone after reading the negative feedback and after 3 days I did not remove the sticker from the phone to keep it testing for all my uses. Now its been 3 days since I am using this phone and its worth the money I spend . What you need to do : as soon as you receive the phone update the updates for it. After that the heating problem solved as well as freed memory upto 1gb at 1st it was just 500mb. Will be writing rest after 2-3 month.
0|5.0|Amazing product... Really satisfied... Built quality is excellent... Lightweight..... Amazing camera.... Both front and rear.... Heating issue can be resolved by downloading clean master..... Each and every android smart phone has this heating issue..... So don't judge with this prob only..... Rest is totally fine at this price range.
0|5.0|A review after using xiaomi mi4i for a month ..... Just go for it..!! Dnt kno about the people who gave 1 star to this product , whether they got a defective product or what.. but honestly...this phone is of premium quality... --it is slim n beautiful.. n feels very comfortable in ur hand .. --excellent battery life...lasts a day easily even with the heavy usage... --camera is the best in class..videos aren't sharp though but good... --i've got four updates since the purchase....n bugs are removed on each of them... --haven't faced heating issues...that may be because i live in shimla --display is wonderful --touch is comparable to even i-phone n im not kidding... --call quality is excellent...beats microsoft, htc and samsung..n ofcourse others --yes..storage is going to be an issue because only 12.5 Gig is available to the user --i got this phone for 9999....n this amount is worth spending on this beauty
0|1.0|Very bad phone after deleting storage folder phone memory gets clean & services of Mi 4i is too too bad this thing apply on all authorized centres of mi & also very bad support of email & there help line number is for only displaying call is disconnected. Very very bad phone!!! don't go for this.
1|1.0|After update mobile heats. Some one says not heat. But not true. Also battery charging time almost 8 hours. And games like dead trigger lags after update. Not worth. Then I buy coolpad note 3. Charging time only 2 hr. Also no heating problem. Battery lasts full day with easy.don't waste here. Buy coolpad and enjoy
0|3.0|I bought it on offer for 10K..i received after 4 days..using since last four days..like to share few things here for new buyers. 1)Mobile data is not connecting some times..(It is connecting when we turn off and on) 2)it has a issue of lagging..eventhough it has 2GB ram..not opening apps quickly (pls note i have no games in my phone,only few aps,not even more than 50MB) 3)Battery is week,more than 3000ams i am getting only one day battery life hardly 4)when we put covers back ,heat is tremendous..otherwise ok 5)Camera quality is so good for this price range 6)don't buy tampered galss..it is not fitting corectly..it is half covering the front cam,waste of money. if u buy in offers i.e between 8k to 10k is ok phone ....but 13k is high bcz of lagging issue,battery,net connect..etc overall i am neutral here
0|4.0|Current MIUI Version: MIUI 6.6.10| Stable I'm writing this review to share my experience on Xiaomi Mi4i after 2 Months of Usage. I'm a medium user with no serious gaming. I multitask a lot and here's is my genuine review: Pros: [+] Very Light weight and slim with premium looks. It feels great in holding in hand. The build quality is also great. [+] You can easily use with one hand. [+] 1080p FHD Display is one of the best displays employed in the 10k-20k range smartphones. The colour reproduction is excellent. [+] Excellent 5 MP Front Camera 13 MP Rear Camera. The photos are sharp and vivid enough. [+] After the 6.6.6 Update, we get 1 GB RAM free out of 2 GB RAM. No issues or lags with multitasking. [+] The Quickcharge v2.0 feature is very handy and helps us to charge the 3030 mAh battery fast. [+] With the latest updates, the battery stands for 2 Days with casual usage. At heavy usage, it lasts a whole day. So the battery seems great for a normal usage. [+] MIUI v6 is wonderful to use and has lots of features. Also the OTG, Sunlight Display and Other Sensors works well. [+] The Smart Flip Cover makes it grip to hold and also adds protection to device without adding bulkiness. The Sleep Wake sensor also works fine. Cons: [-] As you heard in all reviews, YES, the phone does heats under gaming. But under normal usage, it DOES not heat. The heating issue may be due to Snapdragon 615 chipset. But after the cover was put on, i barely noticed heating. So dont get down with the "heating" if you are not a gamer. [-] Expandable storage may be an issue for some users, but i'm happy with the 16 gigs. Also the OTG helps us if we want to store any large files. *Please understand that Xiaomi is working hard in giving updates for this phone and rectifying bugs. This is evident from the fact that after my purchase i got frequent updates: 6.5.6 -> 6.6.1 -> 6.6.2 -> 6.6.6->6.6.10(Latest). So dont worry, i think the phone will be updated with a stable rom soon. *The MIUI forum is very helpful for understanding the new developments and also to clear our doubts regarding the phone. ADVICE: Please do a FACTORY RESET after an update. This will fix all the issues. Also Try to use original Mi accessories to retain its looks. FINAL VERDICT: The Mi4i definitey is a strong competer in the sub 15K segment with lot of stellar features including Display, Camera etc but having issues of heating under gaming. So for a casual to medium user who wants an overall best user experience, Mi4i is a great device to look for. For gamers, stay away from this Device. RATING: 4/5
0|4.0|Firstly I would like to thank amazon for its faster delivery services.Now coming to the device ..Picture quality of the camera is awesome and good in low light as well.I would strongly recommend to buy a case cover to protect phone from falling from your hand as the back body of the mobile is so soft and even though I updated it to MIUI 6 heating still persisted. Whenever I use headphones and remove them the headphone symbol is still seen and disappears only after some time.After closing high end games like asphalt 8 and other high end apps a blue screen blinks and disappears.. Hope this may be lost in further updates.. And coming to price it is suggest able to buy if you wish to taste Xiaomi's technology and I insist on updating the mobile to decrease the heating of the device.Charging time of the mobile is less that's a good one
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Amazon and E-Mobile (the seller) did an excellent job at securing the phone nicely for transportation. The phone arrived days before the first expected delivery date. Phone works fine, and the specs are really amazing. I don't think there's any other phone that can compete with this one in the market for this price range. I think that Lei Jun (Xiaomi's Founder) has created a revolution in India with this phone...this phone is designed for many people, but also for someone who is new to the smartphone experience. I would highly recommend this phone to anyone and everyone. Just about EVERYONE of my relatives and friends is totally satisfied after seeing it and checking out its features. Some even want to get it for themselves! Thanks for the Big Navratri Sale, Amazon, as I got the phone for only Rs. 9,999.00!
0|5.0|Excellent product. Received in a company sealed packing. Amazon delivered it earlier than promised. Got it at a discounted rate due to Sale on Amazon.in. Mi4i is really worth buying. Has good speed due to its 2GB RAM and 16BG ROM and of course due to Octacore processor. Though, it does not have a memory card slot i.e. we cannot add memory to its inbuilt memory, the need does not arise. Using since 16th Oct. 2015. No lagging, excellent speed, good battery performance. The data transfer was easy from my old phone with the help of Software Data Cable App. Data can also be transferred with the help of any other similar App available on Play Store. Excellent display and many options of display are in-built in the phone. Keep tracking, and don't miss the opportunity to grab it on a discounted price as and when available online.
0|5.0|This Phone is Great piece of Hardware/software. But just to clear it is not a Gaming phone. Hardcore mobile games can go for other options. Works great in everyday use. Quite comfortable in chit-chatting, texting and calls, Longs calls can be cumbersome sometime as the phone has sharp edges. As far as heating issue concern, personally i did not find any coz i think at normal room temperature all device heats to that extent. I'm only disappointed with the RAM usage that this phone. Phone have 2GB of RAM and only 800-900 max available that's the best i got till now. Beside my phone did not have any heavy apps. I wonder what it would be when i install some useful apps. But over all happy with the phone and Amazon Service and Delivery. It was a Box piece and was well sealed and packed. Thanks Amazon Again
0|4.0|Phone - It is a good phone for the price Cons : > Feels Plasticky,it is definitely not a flagship phone > It has heating issue (gets warm compared to Moto G) buy only if you can live with that > MIUI is quirky and takes 0.55% of the available ram > Memory not expandable - what a buzzkill! Pros: > Display is at par with other flagships and marginally better than MI4 > Look and feel will atleast impress you if not overawe you > MIUI has some cool features Auto brightness , One hand mode , themes etc > Hardware under the hood is very capable considering the pricing for this model Delivery - Amazon WOW! , impressive , bezos is putting the dollars in correct business function Much better than than the other ecom giant
0|1.0|Never buy these chinese phone really so many problems in these phone Google play services problem
0|4.0|Good mobile Worth for money.... Performance is also good.... I bought on plus 2 and MI 4i. Mi4i front camera is more better than One plus 2. Touch response and display is awesome... Main drawback is heating problem i am facing more heating problem while speaking in phone and play games. I am aware of it before buying but heating problem is higher than i expected. Storage capacity is less but u can make use of MI cloud facility. It takes more time to charge while connected to PC but u can charge in power socket it take only decent time. I bought it for Rs.9999 with Rs. 1500 Cashback so actual price is Rs.8500. If your are not bothered about heating issue and storage space u can go for it. Please dont compare this high end mobiles. Please compare this with mobiles with this price range.
0|3.0|My rating is only for the great spec but not usefull because i have 7 days experience in this phone .i found 2 major problm in this mi4i phone. 1 . Over heating like oven i am saying seriously . We can use these spec .bcoz we cant call long time we cant put in to pocket we cant play game long time bcoz this phone is heating high 65 degree . 2. Call drop automatically . I cant take important calls bcoz call drop often . Some time every 2-3 mins call drop while talking. So please think 2 times before buying this product .this review is 100%true belive me . One more thing updation is not solve these problm 100% every updation have lots of bugs . S i am back to maa iphone . Very good seller i got this phone within 2 days .
0|1.0|Pros: Good looking Iron, weight is less, doesn't heat up so much that it would burn clothes. Works on battery, so no fear of electric shock. Can be used as a paperweight also. Mom is asking me to use it as a vegetable cutting board. Cons: I thought this was a mobile phone.
0|4.0|Very good phone with small limitations.. Initial impressions after 3 weeks of use.. Pros Excellent build quality and looks Fantastic display Excellent battery life. Good form factor for a 5 inch display.. Very convenient to hold. Excellent call quality Very good wifi reception better than oneplus which I have been using for over a year. Very good camera and excellent shutter speed. Cons Gets warm very quickly 16 gb storage is very limited and not sufficient for a power user. User interface cosumes about 1 gb of ram Overall best bang for the buck.. Got it as a gift for my mom and it's absolutely worth the price. Hopefully the device works well in the long run.
1|2.0|As everybody Mentioned that this phone is a iron I just ignored and decided to buy this phone, now I know what is the real heating issue. I've upgraded the MIUI to latest immediately expecting the heating will be better handled but its not. Camera is excellent, if you are browsing or seeing Youtube and if you get a call immediately you can't attend the call due to heat its so hot. I am not sure if Xaomi planning for a future firmware release to address this. Simply by starting the phone itself you will fell the heat .The purpose of the phone is not met. May be you can use it as a gadget , Camera , gaming, youtube , ignoring the heat. This is a genuine review next day after receiving the phone. I am think of returning the phone and order another one.
0|1.0|Item I received is not original..its picture quality and camera is inferior then my same previous model which i had purchased 4 months ago from flip kart. u are cheater.plz take it back and refund me...otherwise I would file a complaint against u in consumer court.
0|4.0|Camera 9/10 Display 10/10 Touch response 10/10 Battery life 9/10 Speed 7.5/10 (miui is a little laggy but they promise to improve in update) Speakers 7/10 (amazing quality but the Max vol is a little lower than I want) Style 8.5/10 Software(miui) 7/10 Cons- no earphones, overheats alot on asphalt 8 and other heavy games, no SD card slot (which as actually good if u Google - no high end phones have SD card slots) , miui lacks app drawer (can fix with a launcher). Conclusion - Probably the best buy for the budget - the phone is amazing and the mi drive is useful - it beat my friends Samsung phone in speed camera (brighter flash) design and alot more - but if ud like moto- g3 works too.
0|5.0|Awesome Phone, Worth Buying. Got it for Dhanteras Sale at 9,999 and an additional cashback of 15%. Following are the factors which I liked it so much after using it for an week now. 1. Super Cool Display which is crystal clear 2. MI UI looks beautiful - Home Screen customization options, Color adjustment of notification lights, One Hand mode, etc., 3. Camera both front and back is really good 4. Design of the Phone is really good, with slim and outer body looks really cool. Initially when the phone is switched on for the first time, it lags (was slow in opening apps), but it is faster after a restart. Phone heats up when playing games continuously for an hour or so, but it is manageable.
0|3.0|Disclaimer: I AM NOT A POWER USER. Phone ran hot for a few hours after the updates. Never after that. Very weird behaviour in my opinion. Display is pretty and bright enough on a sunny day. Battery lasts me a day and a half without effort. The OS is sluggish at best. XIAOMI needs to do a lot of optimization to get it running smoothly. Will update this section after the MIUI 7 update. Highly recommend the flip cover from the MI store for Rs.500. The phone is good enough for Rs.8500 (HDFC cash back offer). Do I recommend this phone? NO FOR Rs.13000, but for 10K, you need to consider it as an option. Amazon delivery was on time and the package was well put together.
0|5.0|First of all hatsoff to amazon by delivered the product Speedier than Flipkart . I received in 22 hours. Abt Product : Mi4i Stunning Performance . UI is awesome almost similar like iPhone Played real football which is running Butter Smooth Display is full HD which is Very Crispy to see the Photos and Watch Movies Camera Quality never expected that this much awwwwwwsome.Delivering Stunning Quality Photos in both Rear and Front . Music is not very good . U can Listen thats it Many People Complained abt Heating Issues, Yeah Little heat is there when u r running many app in background and that is normal in all the Phones. Overall 300% Satisfied for 9k :)
0|3.0|I got this ordered by my friend as my account had some problems. There are minor issues not very visible to the eye in the first go. Like the display is brighter towards the edges. The screen is not really white, it has a blue tint. This will be clear when you compare it with motog. I am a ui fanatic and these sutle things disappoint me a alot!! Otherwise the mobile is good. The camera quality is very good. A photo taken at 8pm (no more sun around) of a person beside a fountain gets you a very clear picture of the person and the fountain (infact u can see the water threads very clearly). This was not expected and amazing for me. I like the customization-s mi had done to the UI. The smooth animations is awesome!
0|5.0|I received This Phone yesterday ...First Thank You Amazon for Fast Delivery....Amazing Service by Amazon.com......i got this phone offer 9999/- +15% Cashback on HDFC creadit Card it's Rs.8,500/-. 1) Mi4i its Awsm mb by Xiaomi in less price higher configuration. 2)after read lot of reviews but no any heating issue in mobile last night used more than 5 hours continuously but not heating any issue. 3) Light weight,screen touch feel like premium,everything is awsm.camera also decent. 4)Gray color is most stylish as compare to other ,selfie good. go for it if u r budget under 15000/- not bad option. Drawback 1)headset not with mobile 2)Sometime games not play smoothly but ok ok...
0|4.0|This product is simply worth the price. With octa core processor and 2GB OF RAM, you get a performance which is called "good" in the Android world. Also the pictures and videos shot with the camera were good quality, just need some practice.
0|5.0|excellent product i was wandering for the blue color MI4I and finally got at 9999 rs.... product is good built quality is excellent working smoothly but i am disappointed by the packaging of amazon because they gave very poor packing to my mobile of rs. 9999 but the used to give air bag packing with the silly product under the cost of 1000 but when comes the matter of mobile phone of rs 10000 the provide very very poor packing i was lucky who got my phone without any damage with this much of packing, but it would not be same for all the time of other buyers so be aware....... product is very good no doubt but amazon have to give strong packing for safe delivery ....:)
1|5.0|Awesome Phone, its design is the one most Unique Feature that you will not see in any phone. 5" Screen but body of 4.7 INcher... Gr8 design. At begining i was doubting Amazon about product's Genuinity but only after several formats and Hard resets and multiple OS flashing, the device fianlly behaved as per records hitting Antutu benchmark with 39790 mark. it was satisfying. but the OS - Lollipop 5.0.2 is already declared buggy by Google and these MIUI crazy people dont get it. They will keep on improving it as much possible, you really need to wait out their selfless effort to finally see Marshmallow next year and get a descent battery performance out of this Marvel.
0|4.0|Hi, I have brought this product from Amazon for 9999 /- Rs. If you are a rational consumer and wants to buy a value for money product and your price range is in between 10,000 /- to 13,000 /- then you should prefer this phone. Before Mi 4i, I have used Mi3, Red Mi 1s, Red Mi Note & Lenovo A6000+ but frankly speaking this is very good phone in terms of Built Quality, Looks, Camera, Display, User Interface & Performance. The one and only drawback is its limited memory option in 16 GB variant you can get only 10.45 GB free which is too low for some users. If low memory has a problem then i prefer go for 32GB variant or wait for Mi 4c. Thanks Rahul Gupta
1|5.0|Thumbs up to this flagship phone. Got this at just 9000/-. This phone almost beats all phone in its comparison range. I found only one con in this which is the heating problem. But that's a mere negligible issue. Got for this ppl :)
0|2.0|The physical built of the phone is very disappointing. It is not very sturdy as per the price. The grip is bad, and slips often. My touch screen broke and became unresponsive within a month of the purchase. The phone got dropped from hand. I dropped my other phones before many times, but this is the first time screen of a phone broke. I personally know others for whom also the screen broke very easily. If you search online you will see many reviews complaining about this. About the functionality of the phone, it is quite average. It will do all the work of a smartphone, but you won't get a WOW feeling. Price wise, I can accept the functionality, but not the physical built.
0|5.0|I would say MI4I is just amazing. I was very tentative before purchasing since there was too much noise about phone heating up and also some one said we can prepare an omlet on this phone. I picked up as I got this for 8.5k after cashback and Amazon discount. You wont get a phone with so many features at 8.5k so took a chance. To be very honest, this phone is worth every penny. Picture clarity, screen resolution, performance and response all too good. Phone do get heated if you watch videos for a while. This happens with every phone. I have spoken upto 20 mins in one go and no heating up. So I would say this phone is excellent and value for money. Go for it...
0|5.0|Brilliant product. Probably the best Xiaomi product after Mi 3, I have used. UI is a bliss and it has spoilt me to no end. I cannot upgrade to Samswine or Crapple or HTC now. Once you use this MIUI, there is no point of return. Beware, it is actually a warning. After using Mi 3, upgraded to S5 Galaxy and boy what a dumbed down UI TouchWiz is. Complete douche! MIUI is far more intelligent, it senses what you are gonna do. Copying a number from website, will prompt you if you wanna dial it. Running benchmarks, it will prompt you to switch to performance mode to increase best benchmark performance...damn how much I missed these, can't tell you. Happy to be a Xiaomi owner!
0|4.0|All in all it's a good performer. Only 3 issues are there with this phone: 1. Heating issue, especially near the camera top side of the phone. 2. Low light camera quality is not that great. 3. It is not exactly an issue but I would say a design bluff. The speaker grill at the back is not having any stereo speakers rather just a single speaker, which can be easily tested by placing your finger on half side of the grill and then playing any music. Notice the sound is muted on one side of the grill. Also, do this test without any case or cover on the phone. Rest, I think it is the best phone when you consider the price of this phone.
1|5.0|Great product, review from a former nexus 5 user. It is not a extreme powerful system,but does it job very well. Great battery backup , sharp display & great call quality (all are better than my nexus) However due to heavily customized android skin, feels a little lag sometime (very rare, specially when opening multiple internet based apps at once). No heat under moderate usage & even when connected to 3G network Whoever facing heating issue, please update to latest firmware and do a factory reset. I never felt any uncomfortable heating. Battery easily last for 2 day for whatsapp in 2g, 10-12 calls/day + browsing in wifi
0|4.0|Phone is very good but still not Upto the mark those who have camera performance Problem pls downgrade Miui version to 6.5.6 or 6.5.3 bcus with after version of 6.5.6 camera performance take a dip Camera focus problem on low light for long distance ...for that i suggest "open camera app" Performance is good on daily basis, not a single lag but gamers will feel lag on some high end games display its best part better than amoled screen battery backup is upto the mark. mi4i its good package mobile if you ignore some minor things i writing these review after one month usage totally satisfied wid mobile.
0|5.0|I still use an S6 Edge but after ordering Redmi 2 Prime for my dad I was so impressed with Xiaomi and ordered mi4i. I feel it's better than S6 Edge. Much quicker processing and better battery. More than value for money.
0|4.0|Phone is good nice cam everything is good ... Bt on 3g network only watsaap works no other sites browsing and youtube wont work... Need help ....checked out all setting and modes bt stil didnt help it at all.
0|5.0|FIRST BEST THING IN THIS PHONE IS CAMERA , PHONES 13MP CAMERA IS AWASOME ,PHOTOS OF THIS PHONE IS CAPTURED LIKE IPHONE 6 , PERFORMANCE IS GOOD BUT 16 GB INTERNAL NE MAJA KHARAB KIYA BUT MEMORY NE MAJA KIRKIRA KAR DIYA BTW PHONES 1080P VIDEO IS ALSO GOOD , FRONT 5MP BHI BADIYA HAI SCREEN 1080P DEKHNE MAI MAJA AATA HAI VIDEOS ND HARDWARE IS GOOD . OVER ALL YOU CAN SAY , IPHONE TO NHI PAR IPHONE SE KUM BHI NHI ...
1|5.0|Made 10 Display 10 Updated MIUI 7 owesome skin Camera 9 Sound 8 Battery 10 Stop foolin urself on 20+k for Samsung, HTC,sony,oneplus #iluvMI Features = money = double times value
0|1.0|Pathetic Piece of work. The phone is faulty, only whatsapp is working & not able to browse anything. Agony is i was able to find this after 15 days of delivery. Hence i cant return it...Now only option is to sell it.
1|1.0|I will never buy an MI4I phone again. First thing is i faced issues with the charging.The phone did not charge after 2-3 days.Couldnot see the yellow indicator light.Automatically after some few hours i could see it again i thought it as a genuine problem.Did a factory reset but nothing worked.After some time automatically it started charging. The problem which i am facing now is the speaker which initially rings higher for both call/AV and then after 8-9 seconds rings at a lower volume.Same experience if i play movie or a song. Please don't buy this product.Even the customer care doesn't answer your questions properly.
0|4.0|this is one of the best under 20k nd the best under 13000.there were some confusions between lenovo k3 note but after using mi4i its clear. Pros:- awesome screen good camera very food built,slim n sexy. dual 4g sim suppot. miui is awsome to use with the combination of lollipop 5.0.2. lots of customization options given. fast nd lag free. Cons:- no storage options given. earphones are not available in the box. a bit of heating issue but after a long use, not usually. over all i would say its a good deal in 13k.its quality+style+specs. xiomi has done a good job.
0|1.0|I bought this phone about a month back. Yesterday, the touch would not work and then I realized that it got a think line crack (hard to even notice). Never dropped the phone, it was in my pocket and probably got some bit of extra pressure. This is not covered under warranty and now I have got to spend about Rs 4000 to get the touch screen replaced. I had a Samsung Galaxy S2 before and accidentally dropped it several times but the screen never broke. Also, my wife got a crack on her's and was still able to use it. Only with Xiaomi, you cannot use the phone even with a minor crack on screen. Very frustrating.
0|5.0|First of all, Thanks to amazon for such fast service, Product Quality was good. This phone is really awesome.I saw so many reviews like the phone is heating ( Someone commented as they are making ROTTI and OMELLETTE USING THIS PHONE ) But it is not heating like that. I have also faced same problem when i am playing high resolution game and its around 45 Degree.. But its is common for all mobiles. I got the MIUI7 Update now heating issue is resolved... Its is Slim, nice fishing, Camera clarity is good. battery back is awesome.... NICE Mobile with NICE Price....... Now i am big fan of XIAOMI
0|1.0|I am a frequent smart phone user and have also used Apple, Sony, Samsung products. Also I already have 3 xiaomi phones- Mi3, Redmi 2 and Redmi note. All 3 were purchased from flipkart and are working fine. However with the purchase of Mi4i from Amazon, I am thoroughly dissapointed. Mi4i is extremely bad product, hangs a lotttt, extremely slow performance, and lot of times both the parties to the call are unable to listen to each other (neither the voice from Mi4i reaches the recipient nor the voice of other party can be listened. The moment different phone is used everything works fine). Also the volume is extremely low. Not sure whether its a genuine manufacturing problem or might have got refurbished phone. But whatsoever, I am highly dissatisfied.
1|4.0|The phone is very good with a nice bright screen and good response. The battery life also seems to be quite decent.Only issue is of internal storage of only 16GB of which only 10.75 GB is available to user. So keep this point in mind before buying it.The packaging was good and delivery was fast. Only issue was Amazon advertised that there was cash back of 15% on HDFC+ app but I was not able to make payment multiple times in spite of having a valid debit card and balance in account. I got no intimation from bank on why payment failed. It would be good if Amazon can give an explanation on why payment failed from their side.
0|5.0|Loving the phone.. It's been still not more than half a month, but love the phone every time iI have it in my hand.. Occasionally found it heating at high data usage but can be ignored for shear feel of it!
0|3.0|I am using this phone from last 1 week Pros:- Good design, look, avg Good battery backup, good camera(Front/Back),Light weight,good price Cons:- Heating problem is there and Sometime Phone is hanging
0|4.0|I'd have rated five star if its have expandable storage or else i've found no reason to worried Things to Consider. 1. Excellent design (Inspired) 2. Excellent camera 3. Performance great Specially touch is great 4.I like notification and lower key led 5. The BEST MIUI7 with Android Lolipop 6. Perfect pocket size 5" with excellent color reproduction 7.Slim and light weight 8.Good Battery - last for a day with heavy usage Things could have improved. 1. Expandable storage 2.Little heating issues (its obvious -need not to worried about heating)
1|1.0|This phone is not good because it's back cover is not Removal or not expendable memory slot inside the phone. Please provides this facilities in this phone. Regarding this phone give appropriate information.
0|3.0|The handset didn't reboot after charging and the handset is just displaying mi and it's heating up. Customer Support number +91 8049129109 is not accessible, recorded message coming that all lines are busy.
0|5.0|It is very beautiful product , I ordered it as i need best camera quality,battery backup,latest version,2gb ram & in my budget AND all it is in one mobile mi4i It is the best of best !!!!!!!!
0|3.0|heating problem is there. i bought two phone but one i returned. because sar value is not available. and phone warm up when in pocket and calls. plz fix it. overall phone look and camera quality is so good.
0|3.0|The product is best functionality wise. But it gets heated very quickly even while we are on call for 5 minutes. I wonder if this is a faulty piece. I request a response from the concerned person
0|3.0|After using of around 20days of the mobile. I feel the overall experience neither Good nor Bad! It has a great performance in some features but has worst too in some area. I feel the touch of phone is very smooth & responsive. Camera quality is best in this range. But facing some heating issue during internet surfing, processing speed is very slow some time. Hanging & reboot problem specially during browsing. Taking more at the power on. Storage capacity is not sufficient. After 15 days of usase it got full only in camera pictures & normal downloading.
0|1.0|This is second phone I received and having volume issues. Earlier there was front camera issues. How to deal with problems every fortnightly. I am not at all happy with product. If is utter water of time
0|5.0|I have purchased this product this diwali, now it has been around 20days I m using this phone.. Below list of some pros and cons which I experience in these days: First i want to ask Amazon.. Why r u playing with the price.. Pros: *Great display *Normal battery backup ,, normal use with rare data use - 28hr, heavy data use - 16hr, wifi browsing often - 20hr *Super Touch *Slim Design *Great Camera Cons: *Heating when ,, using data, charging, calling too much *Poor Buttons *Noise cancellation not good *Speaker is not good
0|3.0|Processing speed is low than Mi3. Heating issue. Over saturated colours of pics captured from camera. Pethetic courier service and helpless call centre service. Over all good cell phone.
0|5.0|Nice Phone pros display 10/10 rear camera 9.5/10 corns minor heating while heavy gaming and no SD card :( but the looks and UI makes it up LOVE MI
0|3.0|First of all hats off to Amazon for there excellent service even there return service. I am using different xiaomi phone from last one year MI3 Reademe note all were excellent but this time xiaomi disappointed me. Screen gets off whenever I call anyone and any keys doesn't work even power button, back button . I cannot cut, hold, record call even if I call customer care I can't select language as screen gets off. Screen remains off until the person on the other side cuts the phone I even cannot cut the phone. Rest other features of the phone excellent specially camera quality.
0|4.0|Delivery by amazon Was good and on time as promised.The packaging was intact .Now about the phone its simply value for money.Excellent display with good sunlight visibility.Call quality is awesome and faced no issues on the phone.The heating issues are fixed .no more heating .Excellent camera beats the phone with higher price bracket.Audio quality through the earphones is one of the best. Speaker is little low but is loud enough to listen the ringing of the cell.Battery lasted a full day with medium usage. Miui is best .I recommend updating the ui to miui 7 developer rather than stable
1|1.0|What you gave is complete damaged product. After using the phone a week it doesn't work efficiently, whenever I on the camera few seconds after it become full of red colour dots. I am completely disappointing about that product. So please help me to out this problem. I gifted that mobile to my cousine for deepali gift but he was not satisfied with that product. You people say the replacement of the product was over, for that you gave lot of describe notes. I am waiting your positive reply Contact details Email. sugubalans@gmail.com Mob no. 8015872729
0|1.0|Opened phone from box 4days back. Nice looking one with good specs. Touch is good and performance is good. But off late I realized that phone gets to sleep mode and then switched off if its kept idle for some time. Initially I thought that this is due lack of charge. I did full charge and kept on observation for couple of days then i concluded this a phone problem. I searched net and couldn't find a fix for it yet.. Even though phone looks good has good specs but if I have to do some activity continuously to prevent it from getting switched off then its basic purpose is defeated..
0|5.0|First of all hats off to amazone delivery service. It delivers quickly and conveniently. Now back to phone: The phone is great at this price range with amazing features. Ai bought this phone for my mother thinking that she I not that tech savy. It meets her expectations of being simple in operation. Many people said about heating and ram problem, but with 1st update it goes off. Camera is awesome, we in family prefer camera of mi4i over moto g 3rd gen, micromax canvas knight for its clarity and light sensitivity. Overall best in its category and range.
0|1.0|The piece which I have received even after replacement...is heating so much that I can barely hold it....just normal Bluetooth transfer does get heat up...think twice if ua purchase tiz..!!
0|4.0|4 stars because of it's looks and functioning Didn't rate 5th star because of poor network acceleration. Everytime i connect it to internet i goes well but after few minutes it's connectivity goes down to zero and meanwhile if i need to browse more it says no network while shows connectivity to network @0.00K/s. So i need to disconnect time and again for single browse result. Even now while writing this review internet speed is 0.02K/s. Same sim works well in my redmi 1s. If anyone knows a solution please tell at ravi20feb@gmail.com
0|5.0|Geart phone 2gb ram, 16gb, rom, 13mp, camera with dual flash 5mp front camera quality is one of the best, Great service by Amazon thank you Amazon for given me greatest phone
0|1.0|Very much disappointed with the performance. Software got crashed twice in 1 month. Corrupted Software upgrade versions are being release due to which most of the users facing issues.
0|3.0|Out of 2 GB RAM ONLY 850 is available before installing Amy additional app. Hanging within two days when opening camera and some basic application.. Getting heat..
0|3.0|Good Camera Front and back both are really good...mobile heats up like anything surely not a good phone for gamers...processor and ram is nt as expected sometimes lags when multitasking...MI doesnt provide a headset and the most hated thing is back cover doesnt comes out sim card slot is in sides which opens by a pin which is provided by MI in box that is really a poor thinking..speakers omg nokia 1100 sounds better on headset its fine internal available 10gb that is pretty fair cant extend...will suggest to buy a different phone in this range
0|1.0|I ordered this phone last week and a faulty product with cosmetic defects was sent to me. I immediately returned the product. Looks like there is zero Quality control at Xiaomi.
1|2.0|Mi4i has lot of heating problem. Even while charging it gets heated up quickly within few minutes. Camera is good but sound quality is just average. Plus it has non removable back cover which is a negetive point. Guys go for a moto g variant which is more reliable. Also miui uses lot of memory. Though mi4i has 2 gb ram but only 830 mb ram is available to user and 10 out of 16 gb internal memory is free for use. I bought it for rs10000 in sale but in my opinion moto g3 would have been a better option as its hardware n interface is better.
0|5.0|Excellent phone I didn't encountered any major problems with this phone . there are so many negative reviews about this phone regarding heating problem , which I didnt faced. If you want an experience of iphones built quality at this price point , then this is the best you can get. Works smoothly , doesnt hang at all , and the front camera is just awsome Just go for it and last thing - amazon is the best online destination for shopping , delievered the mi 4i in just two days and that too during festive season . Love u amazon
1|4.0|The mi4i is a good purchase for this price. It has a premium look and feel. Camera is also good. Battery backup is a thing I am little concerned about. I could not get a full day of charge even though I used only WiFi for connecting to the internet. Anyways I will be tweaking around to see what can be done to improve it. :) Special mention for Amazon for making the delivery within one day. That was great. The reason why I opted Amazon although most of the e-sellers were selling mi4i at the same price during this sale season.
0|1.0|Hi, The package delivered too late. the first installment charged even before the package delivered. the Camera does not work ! Bless my stupidity for buying this product.
0|4.0|Very Good phone. Camera quality in HD mode is awesome. Battery life so far is good but should remain the same after a year. Phone has good sharpness on applications as well. the manufacturer has not provided the earphones with the kit, thats something very unusual. Phone gets heated up if Net is kept on for a while. if charging and net are both on, then its gets really heated up. put a good flip cover to minimise the heating effect. but still a Good phone, worth the price. Non - Extension of memory is another set back i should say.
1|4.0|As per hardware and battery combination this would be the best phone but the Software failes to meet the requirement of general use. Some problems I noticed with my handset. 1. If you are calling using SIM1, SIM2 will be not reachable. (Lenovo Vibe X2 used to show call waiting). 2. Sometimes echo of my own voice is being heard. 3. Frequently, call fails to connect and you head your own voice. 4. In some networks, if call is not answered, then you hear own voice or whatever is being played at background.
0|5.0|when you got all features in mobile and you don't have to pay heavy amount there is no limit of joy. this mobile full hd screen so good. so fast speed processor. thin,sleek. just heat during charging and gaming but its not a big deal. this mobile better my all previous mobiles about 20000, 25000 30000 rs. go for it. thanks xiaomi for this. now waiting for xiaomi mi note pro in india. unique feature for front camera selfie.by software it make selfie so cool.your friends will say wow..
0|4.0|I have taken this phone during Diwali offer. Thanks to amazon for on time delivery. Over all on every point phone is good. Cons: 1. More sensitive : suddenly fell down from hand and a crack on screen .. Make sure whomever nots buy this phone, buy it after buying use it with tempered glass and a good case . 2. Getting warm while playing games: I have downloaded one small skewing game. Just with few mins of play phone is getting warmer. I have even updated to MIUI7 . Still the problem continues.
0|4.0|I bought this phone for 9999/- in the recently concluded amazon sale and its more than its worth. Hands down it is the best phone in this price range. Likes- 1.Light weight and the feel of the phone is really good 2.Front camera quality is far better than its competitiors. 3.No heating issues as such. 4.Battery life is good and charging speed is fast. Dislikes. 1.The response is a bit slow while playing games Overall.. Please buy this phone if your budget is under 15k.
0|4.0|Hi, I have purchased this product on Oct 17, 2015 and i am using it from last one week. Following is my honest feedback to this product - 1) Battery performance is good 2) Touch is good. 3) Initially there was problems with connecting few sites on 2G/3G data connectivity like Google search, amazon app, play store etc. This makes me really very irritating and upset. But it's resolved after changing APN setting (from Airtel Live to Mobile Office). 4) And on WiFi it works fine. 4) usable storage around 12 GB ROM and 1 GB RAM.
1|4.0|Overall a good phone. Pros 1. More lightweight than others only 130 grams. 2. Very good single hand use, hard to believe screen is 5' 3. Battery backup is decent, not great as expected of a 3k+ battery. 4. Camera is good as expected Cons 1. MIUI 6 with android consumes at least 1 GB of RAM even when you are not running apps. 2. Charging is slow as compared to Samsung phones 3. No micro SD card slot is a pain as only 10 gb is usable and you can easily exhaust it.
0|3.0|I have ordered White color MI4i. Look wise phone is not that classy. White color looks like plastic. All the applications including MI core applications gets updated immediately after connecting to internet. That means MI has given all the outdated versions of the apps. Even though it is 16GB memory phone, that is not the available memory. Total available memory is at around 12 GB. The GUI is not that appealing. No ear phones given. Expected more out of it as it is 13000 Rs phone, but it is not up to my expectations.
0|5.0|The Xiaomi Mi 4i is a strong value for money buy if you want a phone online stores offering now just Rs.10,000. However, it won't please enthusiasts and power users who want flawless performance...some body saying mobile heating issue but i also littel much faced it but when i am useing internet with as well as in charging time..that also little mush i think not it is major problem..snd another storge issue it also not a big..users memory given 12gb next camera awsome..soo it is the best smartphone for value of money
0|5.0|Using this phone from five days with no lags ,no problems related to software & hardware ,it worth my money spent on it ,even it rocks when i got it on amazon sale in INR 9999 +15% cash back.. will definately recommend all my friends MI4I is setting a trend in smartphones with superb specifications & low cost.. cons: lack of accesories in market i:e headphones back covers & all (thanks to nokia bh-503 for my bluetooth headphones) speaker volume could be little high (but i`ll manage)
0|1.0|Internet access is big problem...I can access it by hotspot wifi from another phone, but at same place with mobile data it intermittly woks. Confused between H and H+.
1|2.0|hopeless result , I have brought MI4I since nov16 and applied update after updated it was not showing me contact detail as well received calls and dial no details. i approached MI service center. They degraded again the software and suggested me not apply the updates. Now what happened phone and network is not running properly. ...Called to amazon service center. Amazon told me we were not the rights place .you have to go MI service center again. So please don't go for chip price and CHINA made ...
0|2.0|The mobile was absolutely fabulous and there are no comments on the hardware as well as software. But unfortunately i was surprised to notice that the proximity sensor stopped working once i installed the SIM cards. It should be a manufafturing defect but still problem is a problem so i have decided to get this piece replaced by another hoping it would be a perfect phone unlike this. Though i was happy with my choice I am not able to rate it good as big manufacturers such as Xiaomi can sell products like this.
0|1.0|Why the hell there is no headphone given?? Mi shall improve this, all other competant brands provide headphones?? It wont affect the price adversely in any case..
1|1.0|Configuration good. But battery is not giving good backup. Phone heating is one problem. Design good. Very slim. MIUI is not good as android original. Resolution is very good. Video quality not looking good. HD quality videos also not as per satisfaction. Don't know whether this heating will create any harm to health or not. Front camera is not working properly. 22-09-2015 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Got a call from Xiaomi support. They told to take some steps and load old MIUI version. But after doing that everything became more problematic. Camera picture are the same. Moreover lot of error messages coming. Don't know what will happen.
1|1.0|I booked the red mi 4i 16 Gb mobile . On 14 Th of this month . And i recievd on 16th. I booked gray colour but i recieved White Colour. Display touch screen Worked only for one day. Now its not working touch screen and any call recieving function is not working. But picture quality and feel of the mibole is good and operating system is also good and fine But might be i recieved deffect peace. So i think amazon qualitiy check is not doing on the products properly. Think and BUY
0|1.0|Friends dont buy Mi4i for 10 thousand because these are returned mobiles this the why they are giving for this price because I was experience d
0|4.0|I recommended you this product, Display - 5 star Touch - 5 star Look - 5 star Processor- 4 star Memory Management - 5 star Camera - 4 star Selfie Camera - 5 star Basic Differences between mi4 and mi4i are processor - mi4i octa core( 2 processor...at same time multitasking is really fast) -mi4 quad core Camera difference mi4 is able to shoot in 4k quality video where mi4i is not mi4i selfie camera is better
0|1.0|Hangs frequently. The manufacturer don't listen at all. Not worth even Rs 500. 00.tried to contact the manufacturer, but it seems they are least concern
0|4.0|The product I received was well packaged. I updated the phone to miui 6.7.2. There is no overheating issue after update. It only heats a little while charging using my fast charger. Asphalt 8 played smoothly. But the battery as per the information in the box was 3030mAh instead of 3120mAh(which was shown in advertisement of Amazon's website). The phones auto flash was not synchronized with the time of clicking pictures after update. But its a great phone if you don't need more storage.
1|2.0|I have bought this phone during sale period for 9999. Before this phone i owned a Mi3 which got screen damage because of a fall. As an year long happy user of Mi3, I was more biased towards Xiomi product, went ahead to buying Mi4i and thats where I made a MISTAKE. Apart from looks Mi4i is very poor compared to my old Mi3 in almost all areas. Pros (all same as Mi3): - Camera - almost same as Mi3 or marginally better. - Screen quality - battery life - Gorilla Glass - not available in most of the phone in this price range and it was must for me. Cons - ITS A HEATER - with a 15-20 minutes of wifi use like simple browsing or doing WA, it heats up like anything from top. You can not take call till you lock the phone and wait for 2 mnts. If you take calls you will surely burn your ears like I did :(. i googled this and found that almost 70% of Mi4i users are facing this issue. Xiomi has provided the upgrade claims to fix the issue, I did that 800+ MB of upgrade even after that its heating and i don't see much improvement in the problem. - Slower - I feel its bit slower than K3 note that my brother has and I feel even Mi3 was better than this phone when it comes to responsiveness. I am a basic user who use phone for WA, browsing and reading. I don't do gaming much just played subway surfer and was ok with its response but again it was heating after 10-15 of play so can say its not for Gamers or heavy user for sure. Bottom line: I would not recommend this phone to anyone, heating is a MAJOR issue for me and makes this phone unusable.
0|4.0|Review after 3days of use (9999) Display- vivid n crisp full HD , nice viewing angles 10/10 Touch- nice responsive 8/10 Camera- nice even in low light In day light it take detailed pics 8/10 UI - MIUI 7 good but miss a enjoy of pure android. 6/10 Battery- not up to the mark BT average 6/10 Processor- good , legs rarely 9/10 Mic- It average 7/10 It shows flag of crashing of google services
1|4.0|It is good experience with the phone. There is no heating issue also as some reviews mentioned. Design is good and easy to carry with only 130gm weight. I am not a heavy user and with 3g off battery lasts for 2 days. with 3g on 1.5 day. I tested with few games and performance was good. I did not overload it with too many applications and test it. There could have been provision for micro sd card as 16gb is a constraint for music,photos,videos etc.
0|1.0|It's touch is not good. little bit scratch can damage it's touch and your phone will be use less. I bought this phone after one month i put in my jeans' s pocket when i put it out from my pocket it not working because it's touch was damaged. There is no service available everywhere. so it's repair cost is too much, you can buy new smart phone at this repair cost. This phone get very hot while working. After saving contact we can not edit. It has problem of hanging also.
1|5.0|Mi is good company ,and this mobile is also good
1|1.0|With out using the data, for general using also it will heat a lot, but the design was excellent, camera is 13 with dual led flash, the redmi 2prime was excellent in terms of camera, night picturing and zooming clarity also, but the night picture in mi4i makes lot of noise by dots in picture, I request u all the guys compare camera and heating problem with redmi 2 , redmi 2 was enough u don't want to invest double for such a product with less quality in camera and heating
1|1.0|May be people living in chilled places like Himalayas would love this product!! YES i had got a portable heater instead of a smart phone! From the time i booted it up for the 1st time ever the phone was constantly hot until switched it off for good when i returned the product the very next day. How can a company release a phone to market without testing it thoroughly? If they had done a good job doing that, i wouldn't have had received a faulty piece.
0|3.0|Product is good in looks , camera clarity is super, but none of the google apps are working even after the system updation..and phone is heating a lot
0|2.0|Battery backup & heating problem very much
0|3.0|Mi4i boasts many things like 13MP/5MP camera, 3030 mAh battery, 1.7 GHz processor and many many things. But in terms of delivery its not even equal to 8 MP camera and 2000mAh battery. Overall product is good at this price. But battery cant last even for full working day (even on 2G connection). With 3G it will be dead in few hours. It has heating problems also which can create boils on your ear. I would suggest go for some other brand, spend more and buy good.
0|5.0|Love this phone. Its sleek, trendy and offers good performance. I wish I could say the same for the operating system, the UI to be precise. I like the MIUI a lot which adds a lot of features directly to the OS which required me to download several apps on my Nexus 5 with stock android. But I miss the stock android performance. I hope when the MIUI7 arrives on Mi4i, its helps reduce the performance issues and make this a much loveable device.
0|1.0|Some times its keys doesn't work and some time the screen got blank which makes the phone hang. Replace the phone with a sealed pack new cell phone
0|2.0|It is a good phone, was slim and looked classy, But it has this issue of not going beyond 50% when charged, now that eats up all the other credits.
0|3.0|I had heard the phone heats up.... I was expecting it anyways considering the configuration... however, it heats up too much.... also, the interface is not as smooth as I had expected... there is lag in activities as well (and this is a scenario when I have installed very few apps, read 14). Pros: Looks, sleakness, camera Cons: Lags, heats up. I had a MI3 and it was much smoother that this mobile.... Would not recommend.
0|1.0|The internal memory only 11.8GB instead of 16GB..these peoples are fooling us. Pl don't bye this product, heating problem, Poor camera clarity.
0|1.0|Very bad mobile can make a omlete on the mobile gets heated in 2 minutes huge problems
1|1.0|I did not like the phone. I had upgraded the phone to latest version as soon as I bought it but the issue was speaker sound was too harsh and loud and I feel like my ear is aching after the use of just 5 mins or so. Therefore I had given my phone to various people to use it and all of them had the same review. I am waiting for Amazon's tie-up with as I no longer trust Flipkart for online shopping and looking for buying Moto g3 from Amazon.
0|4.0|screen is osum .camera is great but in night some pictures are ok. heating feels only while playing games but it is tolerable not too much heating processing is good. battery is not upto the mark .in normal usage battery backup is only one day . phone is very light in weight. look of the phone is awesome . not too much problem of storage .it has sufficient storage for normal purpose . for expanding you use otg pendrive. overall phone rating is 8/10.
0|3.0|Hi friends, I brought this Phone and the delivery is prompt...of course the product is good too....I love the display, camera, ........but the major thing I am worried is about the phone calls.......major times my phone calls are disconnecting during the calls. Even though I made it repair at the service centre.. by updating the software...but the issue is not resolved. Hope It shall be resolved soon. Thanks & Regards Mithun
0|4.0|Pros:- Good design, stylish look, no lagging/hanging, Good battery backup, good camera(Front/Back),Light weight, Reasonable price Cons:- slightly Heating problem. Sound is not much high as required No Support for SD Card- doesn't matter Xiaomi not giving any ear phones-Why ? I am facing very low sound problem in ear speaker as well as other main speaker Otherwise mobile phone is superb. kindly let me know the solution. Rating 4/5 jeet bhumbla
0|1.0|This mobile is not as per our expectation.we were expecting very fast processsing as per latest budget mobile available.but it is very slow.
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Slim, light, fast, great looks. Mi UI is excellent with intuitive options for when you need it. Many of the Mi UI features you'll find better than stock Android. This phone offers so much that its hard to believe its available for this price. Comparable specs phone are available for 18-19k. If you are concerned about Mi brand, don't be. I have become a loyalist after trying several brands and now have 3 Mi phones in my family!
0|4.0|Classic phone, delivery got delayed by one day as per SMS sent by Amazon. Phone is good but go for 32GB because 16 GB is very less. Phone have one issue that is heating but in this price you can bare with it..i am happy with it..another issue i cannot connect some pendrives to this model while same pendrive i could connect to other MI phone like redmi 1S, note etc. True caller & CM security app is not working in this phone, MI need to workout.
0|5.0|This is the third one I have bought from Xiaomi, after buying mi3 and Redme 1S. Mi4i is the best of the three in terms of sleekness, looks, and weight, and is as good in performance as mi3 at a great price of 10,000! So far so good. I hope the button on my now more than a year old mi3 does not start giving trouble soon---it is now less than satisfactory at times, brings the display to life momentariy and then I need to press one more time.
1|1.0|Frankly speaking the phone is not good. Reasons..... 1.Out of 2gb Ram u only get 700 mb in idle condition. R u kidding Xiaomi? 2.software is not polished. 3. Laggy processor. Not good for gaming. I wonder how snapdragon 615 octacore is so Laggy? My honor 4c performance is far better. It has 1.2 GHz Kirin processor, but it performs excellent in games like NOVA 3 and Relic Run. 4. Camera quality not upto the expectations. Compared to honor 4c with same 13 MP cam, mi4i gives blurred image and having dual tone flash not powerful than honor 4c. 5. Finally coming to memory, it gives you only 10,7 gb of storage rather than mentioned 12 gigs. So be aware. Plus don't buy this product. The only good thing is sun light display and slim, light weight. That's it. Thank you for your patience.
0|3.0|Good phone for this price. Obviously, Can't compare this phone to I phone, but the specs we get for this price are more than satisfactory.
1|1.0|Ordered this phone on 15 oct and received it on 16th. Didn't have the patience of using the phone for more than few hours and requested a return by the same night. The phone gets overheated a lot and even when idle. I could not bear the heat for even a minute while talking. Yes! it's that bad. Updating the system to latest available level didn't help. Thanks to amazon for arranging speedy pick-up. I see that refund has been initiated.
1|1.0|Worst phone ever bought. I got the phone today the phone looks nice. Used the phone 2 to 3 hours and found that the home button ia not responding to the touch. By default it is suppose to open google now, pressed it for more than the stipulated time however nothing happened. Changed the setting for the home button to open the app tray and guess what it didnt work. The delivwry timing was greate however i have to return the faulty product.
0|5.0|Good and i had an issue with 4g connectivity of airtel, when enquired with airtel theyguided to play with settings but nothing worked out. Atlast i fornmated my phone and tried connecting and 4g works perfectly fine. i feel audio is low compared to other mobiles.Even many mi4i many users facing connectivity issue with it when you google it but when i reformated and tried my phone all worked fine so if anyone face similar issue do try it.
0|4.0|i have got this product for rs11999-6.6%cashback i.e rs10854 you can also buy from cashkaro and save thousands over Internet shopping(amazon, myntra, jabong, snapdeal&many more)and an unbelievable cash back of 20%on American swan's site . you may get extra 100rs credit if you join with the following link http://cashkaro.com/r=119426 just copy the link in your browser's address bar and enjoy great savings
0|1.0|MI 4i not meet my requirement as seen in website.. when i opened the box and start using cell then i found touch pad is not working well after 3 to 5 times touch then work and other application also not running , facebook and other whenever i connect the facebook then after 5 to 10 second auto discconnect.. i complain the by call but not reply from the Service station whihc is also around 450 km from the my house...???
0|4.0|Happy with the delivery experience. The phone is good value. Pros: -Super light - Awesome camera (selfie mode even better) - Good display and excellent touch and response - No heating issues so far. Cons: - Bit plasticky look especially the white color. - Low volume on speaker - Sometimes (rarely) calls are not received, I've upgarded the firmware hopefully the issue does not recur.
1|2.0|Im not satisfied with this phone. phone is getting heat after update also. i just red the so many reviews, everyone said that this very good phone and not heating problem. i just download the Marvel Contest of Champions and start playing, really its lagging sometimes its getting struck and getting too hot. even Octra core processor why the game is lagging i didn't understand. Im playing this same game on my Honor 4x without lagging.
1|1.0|As winter was near i thought i should buy a new heater. But i found every heater was big in size and can carry it around everywhere. So i asked one of my friends, he told me about xiaomi mi4i, i thought he was joking its so small in size, how can it give me heat. He convinced me to try it once. So i thought to give it a try, and why not its small in size and can fit in your pocket. So i Ordered this one. And guys it far more good then my expectations. It really gives so much heat that you won't even need to wear sweater in the winter. And its plus point is it is smart and it has a display and also work as a mobile phone. Who wouldn't buy a Heater which also works as mobile phone. I am happy to have this. Thank you Amazon for your great service and thank you Xiaomi for making a great Smart Heater.
0|3.0|I am using the android phone for the first time with all reviews and suggestions i finally bought mi4i from Amazon. I am not all satisfied with product, phone gets hangup very frequently and asking for regular updates. The camera is very good. Display is awesome with full HD. The mobile gets heated up for very less time. I kindly suggest that ask the people who are using it for atleast 6 months and taken decision according to it.
0|4.0|I bought this phone on 13th of OCT. Overall this phone is much more better than the other phones in this range...specially the HD screen is very awesome... But the only problem I am facing in this phone is its automatic decreasing sound while playing songs...its sound decreases to very low level within 5 secs...I have checked the settings...but couldnt resolve the issue...so please check this issue when anybody buys this phone..
0|4.0|Got it on the festive sale mi4i grey. On the first 4 days ive gone through the fon my review is like, its a good phone but not the best. Being a heavy gamer it didn't reach my expectation.MC5 is lagging all the time and getting force closed after 4 mins.so if you are a heavy gamer better is go for mi4. But if no heavy gaming, phone is cute and has a premium look, light weight.so this is all wat ive got. Good luck.
1|4.0|Very good phone. All d features we get within d budget. Only concern is dat this phone does not have extendable memory capacity..
1|2.0|No expandable memory and also price of the same has been decreased to 2000 when i purchased Mi 4i (16GB, Grey)
1|5.0|Hi guys im writing this review aft using mi4i for a month..And trust me guys as all even i was worried reading reviews before buying this. Trust me guys this is one of the best smartphone available in market for this price range. I bought it for 10k and very much satisfied. In my one month of usage i never faced any heating or hanging issue. camera quality is good. overall i m satisfied with mi4i.
0|3.0|Guyz The is aswome bt come of the cons are it only 12 gb memory Its process runs only 1.1 ggz 1.6ggz tk jaa sakta hai Bt tab bhot zada heat hoo jata hai N zada der 1.6 maitntain nhi kr pata N charging port ko thorda carefully use krna Vo jerks nhi jhel sakta n bhot zaldy khrab hota hai Mainly problm issy ko le kr hoty hai service center p fer 20 days k phn gya...
1|4.0|A very good phone. No heating issues faced by me. The only problem I would like to comment is the processor seems to be bad. Its either the processor or its the MIUI that makes the phone a bit laggy (negligible though). Got it for my sister in pink. Matte. Looks wise it resembles more of Redmi 2Prime than MI 4i. If someone is confused between MI 4 and MI 4i than surely go for MI 4.
1|1.0|the phone is very good with awesome features, if you really want to buy it don't buy it from amazon.. worst experience ever...
1|2.0|I received mi 4i mobile bt im not happy with mobile .i didn't get headset and screen cover . Wt is the problem plz let me know
0|5.0|I bought the Mi4i after I lost my moto g 1st gen and just one day before the sale. Anyways. I love the phone. It has very wide screen and looks very expensive and royal almost like an Iphone. It has a very smooth interface. IT did take some time to start when I got it yesterday but once it started and all the updates very downloaded and installed, it worked so well. I best part about it are the various themes, I am a theme freak! and it really gives the phone an edge above others. There are no heating issues. At this price, i think the phone is so much better than moto g. I am not a very big on gaming so i dont need additional space, I am good with my basic apps. So I would definitely recommend this phone to everyone.
0|4.0|It's been a week since I bought it through Amazon's wonderful service. For 10k it is a steal, believe me. Beautiful display, all midrange features, decent camera.... Of course it has performance issues here and there which you can't complain when it is a steal! Well I am one of those who thinks that it is a waste of money to spend 40/50k for a smartphone when it is available for a 10k!!. Good luck people!!!
0|5.0|Got this as a gift to my dad. This is his 2nd touch screen phone and he is just loving it. The touch and the screen quality is brilliant. The phone is is fast and doesn't hang up even if multiple applications are opened. The battery back up is brilliant too. Over all an awesome phone and worth the money paid. Thanks Amazon for the prompt follow-ups during the replacement and the timely delivery.
0|4.0|Its a good phone in all respect but the major drawback is its limited memory. I received 2 MIUI updates n my internal memory became 10GB(free) instead 12Gbs n I cant revert it. That means with each new system updates(MIUI) it will eat up some Mb'sand you are not going to get back again even after hard format. Also, you can't clear the Misc memory from phone. Otherwise my phone works fine with Good Camera.
0|5.0|Very good good product.......... Awesome delivery by amazon only delivery boy daisy to delivery at door step. And mi4i in very budgt phone during the dhamaka offer.... Overll is good 13mp camera 5mp front 2gb ram Miui 6.7.8.9 Upgradble to android 6.0 Performance also good 4g awesome. I am very happy to buy...thanks amazon...and ofcourse xiomi.....team.
1|5.0|Camera is extremely good. Sometimes I found camera getting stuck but its only during some excess usage. Heating issue can be avoided by installing du battery saver app. Regarding user interface I found my friends Asus zenfone laser 2 better than mi 4i. If too many apps are open then phone will seriously heats up. But as I said this can be controlled. Got this for 8500 on big billion day. Thanks amazon.
0|3.0|Below my expectations. I was using a IPhone 4 and thought that this phone will be very good after looking at the configuration. Though the phone look very nice and has good display. It is light and thin. Camera quality is also good. I am not a heavy phone user but found that the phone heats up for unknown reasons, hangs while using internet is some other applications and does not have a great battery.
0|5.0|Delivery: Amazon amazes in its express delivery. The product was delivered safely and timely. Mi4i: It is our first Mi series phones for us. Our requirement was quick processor speed, good internal storage and a great camera. It has worked very well on all its specifications. Very delighted. The phone that we compared was Moto G (3rd generation). Recommendation: Awesome device!!
0|4.0|Everything is awesome. My only complain is that sometimes, the touch response has a lag. Otherwise a great value for money.
0|5.0|I am using Mi4i for the last two months. I found the Mobile phone very nice, beautiful and user friendly. There is no heating or hanging. I recommend this Mobile phone who are looking for a Best Mobile phone Under 12000/- I found two small things, the Power/wake-up button is hard. and Automatic dialing happens when not in Power-off mode while in pocket. Yahiya A P Kannur, Kerala
0|1.0|very very disappointed...only 12 hours and phone got hanged....and finally it tot bursted in my bed...........cheap cheap cheap. This is not about the money itself what about the life which is on stake if you came across this kind of products! My hand is get injured and luckily this phone is not get busted while talking to some one otherwise I would have not able to write this review even#######!!
0|1.0|i have purchase MI 4I ...Order no : 402-5259870-1036302 one month before ..i which i have issues like touch problem ,audio jack symbol display issue...i have even spoked with amazone customer care many times but no response ...when i talk to MI 4I service centre they are saying it is mother board problem and it will take 20 to to 30 days ...i cant wait for such a long time so i need replacement..
0|5.0|Great product.. Good design.. Light weight.. Camera quality is just awesome can be compared with sony cameras.. Call quality is good.. And speakers, oh my god they r beautifully loud (beware they can damage your ear if kept very close).. The overall performance of the phone is very good.. Slightly heats up backside rarely and that's just fine.. Lucky me, I got this for 10k.. Definitely go for it
1|4.0|Its been alomost one month use and i woukd say this is perfect phonr for a normal person who love gaming, does multi tasking.. Battery is decent enough to hold one day. Screen clarity is bery good, camera is also good, touch sensitivity is great.. The only reason i could find which is a part of cost cutting is the sensors, which is neglectable for this price.. Every brand manufactures 2% of faulty products.. Dont be scared of reviews which says my product is faulty... If u r unlucky u will get faulty whether it is iphon or mi... I havent faced any difficulty yet. I have been playing asphalt and 3d sniper which is very high end games and never faced hanging issues..
0|5.0|Very Good mobile. + Points : OS: 1. Customized OS. 2. Can be Control Internet access of APP. 3. Can Set privacy option to Individual APP. 4. Smart Notification. Hardware : 1. Awesome Camera. 2. Compact. 3. Cool Design. 4. Notification Light. 5. Both Sim 4G. -ve Points : 1. No Water Proof. 2. No expandable memory.
0|5.0|touch sensitivity of the phone is on par ipad as i use both of them. mi ui is good. hardware lags sometimes however it is fine for the price of 10000 - 1500 cash back = 8500. high quality Photos from this phone which is another excellent point. it keeps hot sometime while playing games, charging & browsing before software upgrade but now it is ok and <= when compared with top brands.
0|5.0|A perfect phone in every sense for everyday requirement. The phone is beautifully designed and the screen is exceptional. Compare it with other 5 inch phones and you will the feel the difference. The back cover is scratch resistant, front has a gorilla glass protection, a snapdragon processor and 2 gb ram..Perfext for this price bracket. I got it for 9999...from amazon. Cheers Amazon..
1|4.0|Mi4i.. My first android mobile phone. Secondary Camera - 5/5 sound - 4/5 front camra - 4/5 GUI- 4/5 Speed - 4/5 Only Concern is the battery Backup when full usage of the mobile and dual sim also working. secondly heating problem near the ear piece that u can't not even want to make connection while it is heated. Amazon delivery - 5/5.
0|3.0|Cons - speakers quality poor(volume is low compared to moto phones) -heating( all cpus, battery and other parts are above 37 degrees, even with little wifi usage it bumps to 48 degrees) -build quality not good -cpus are over clocked. Most of the time all 8 cores are active. I don't if this is poor software issue or a hardware bug -ram : only 800mb is available in idle time. Why xiaomi claims 2gb ??
0|5.0|All together it is wonderful experience with Amazon.... Great product which iam looking for.,....It's really amazing. After reading all the comments and the reviews I was in a dilemma but after using it I found by myself it is a great product indeed. Battery lasted for 26hrs in one full charge, no heating at all, no lagging, very Handy , picture quality is great, a must buy mobile.
0|1.0|shame on you peopl for selling this type of products its hangig frequently i booked a date for return unfortunately i went out of station and now 1 week is completed an i cant return i wat tha f**k i can do with this hanging one i should hang or i should hang u, even the service center is not available near to my location i should travel 800km to make this f**king phone working
0|4.0|This product is good. I bought 16 version of this phone, so far the phone is working fine. If any of u have a price range of 13k to 15k and looking for below characteristics then they can buy this phone: 1) Build Quality. 2) UI is just ossom(MIUI). 3) Camera Quality 4) Video Quality 5) Light Weight 6) Slim Constarints: Non expendable
1|2.0|I purchased yest for 9999 its hotter then Shakira will return after few more checks still it persists same prob....
0|4.0|It is a nice mobile and looks beautiful. performance also good . In wi-fi it load the data fast compare to others .
0|1.0|This phone is such a waste. The screen is of very poor quality and cracked on it's own without any physical impact. The customer support is worthless. They simply won't reply to your mails.
1|4.0|I got the product well within suggested time. I bought this handset after reading up reviews of top selling mid range mobiles. I saw lots of complaints about low volume on earlier versions of handset. However the product I bought is working well on all counts. As compared to Samsung grand duo which I replaced I think the photos taken with this handset look a bit washed out.
0|3.0|After using for a month , i feel it okay for the price . There are minor glitches among them most annoying was when its not-responsive , I have seen this kind of hang in Android high end phones too . Camera both video / photo are excellent . Major complaint : Many people found my phone is switched off .. here I cant say weather its network problem or Phone problem .
0|5.0|Device was in a very good condition. Disappointed with storage available but that was known when I ordered all. Display is very good. Camera is good in daylight, below average in low light conditions. Performance is good. Have to use for more time to know about battery issues. But for the price range it belongs to, the best device.
0|3.0|MI 4i was bought for a discount. The Model is good. But lacks in the Screen durability. The Screen got damaged within 3 days of purchased and had to be replaced. MI 4i charges around 5K for the screen but in local market you can get it for 3K. It also sometimes hangs when the camera is on and a call comes. In future I might not go for MI Products that for sure.
1|1.0|Mobile Sound is gone in 15 days only. ringer volume not able to hear. And very smartly they have kept 10 days return policy. Being an Amazon customer i want to either get it replaced or refund on the same. And since this was sold by Amazon themselves so you cant raise A 2 Z claim as well. Need revert. Regards Anshul Mahajan
0|5.0|awesome phone....camera result is brilliant and front camera is excellent... ane no heating issu....long battay life.... when fon arrived i was play game and other continues 5 hour...but phone not heat..... go for it.... i am confused about mi 4i and moto g 3 gen....but finally i bought mi 4i... i m verry happy..... go for it....
0|4.0|After using it for near about 6 months , I ll say it a good phone with some bugs in every update. So update only after reading reviews. Pros:Display, Camera,Fast ,looks, front camera ,battery Cons:Heat up while games , rest its cool Ringtone voice low, earpiece too loud ,bugs In MIUI Overall a good phone if bought for using normally
0|5.0|Nice Mobile with Nice price 9,999/- with cash back. Pros: Excellent Camera with quick capture Decent Battery life Heating is fine nd acceptable condition Cons:No External Memory(But Price 9999/- is excellent option) Should have given Gripped Back cover. Overall Nice phone..., No other phone presently matchable with MI4I.
1|4.0|This is a good product, but the greatest disadvantage is it burns like a mini sun. The processor heats up a lot and at times you cant even put it on your ear to talk, company needs to see into this matter its really irritating and just not excepted by the customers. More over the camera despite being excellent at times hangs and takes lot of time to get booted again.
0|2.0|It's 2GB RAM helps my Vodafone 3G data pack work at a much more faster speed. I had never experienced this kind of lighting 3G speed before. & the battery of the phone gets charged in very less time. But unfortunately I got a defective piece. Its touch screen is not working. Thanks to Amazon.. They have initiated return of this product & shall refund my money.
0|5.0|The phone was delivered within 2 days of the order placed. The details of the product is accurate. I didnt like the feature that this phone doesnt support external memory card. So people who want more memory should think of this factor before buying. Anyways this was mentioned in the product details. A very nice resolution and better feel of the screen clarity.
0|5.0|actually this phone is quite cool !! Sharp / JDI 1080p DIsplay Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 4G Dual SIM Dual standby 13MP Sony / Samsung camera 3120mAh All-day battery MIUI 6 Based on Android L and the price is really cool and you know as a customer wants a smooth phone and it is the one.
0|3.0|Product is okie but we can use like iron box. If u don't have iron box in home purchase this. Can use it for multiple purpose. But fearures are very impressive. Phone strucking very badly and battery charging time is more and discharging very badly when using mobile data. But very special thx to amazon for its service for taking back this product.
1|4.0|Very much satisfied with this phone.Camera is very effective. Easy to download all essential apps. Very user friendly. Now the cons. No provision for SD cards.User manual provided with the set is of no use and I am unable to find it any link to download it from web including xiomi official website, which makes it difficult toacssesentire functions with ease
0|4.0|MI4I - POINT 1. hiting problum 15 min me heat krta 2. mi4i ne screen cover k liye glass nhi diya 3. micro chip nhi lagti 4. 16 gb internal to 10 gb show karta are aap ko 10 gb show karvana tha wo bat alag hai ki 6gb application ne le liya + POINT 1. Camera 8/10 es rate me sube se acha 2. very fast handset
0|3.0|Phone is good but i am facing issue of call drop when using LTE. i have to disconnect internet to make call, exceptable up to some point but helpless during incoming calls ( it gives bad impression to opposite party specially when its client call or Conference call). Also no expandable memory is big disadvantage as we receive only 11 Gb for use.
0|5.0|Got this phone today for my uncle the phone is super and it is the best phone available at this price mainly I like the 1080p display and 13mp camera which r excellent and also the huge 3120 battery with quick charge which I did not charged yet but I can clearly say that this the best phone in this price ( I bought this phone in the offer price of ?10000 )
0|3.0|It is becoming over heat while using the Internet. I requested for replacement it and time date also was fixed from my side. But no one else came out to collect it on fixed date. instead I received massage 'replacement date is rescheduled on my request' in fact I have not done any reschedule for replacement. I felt bad by such massage received by Amazon
0|1.0|Not a good phone. After a month all the apps stopped working.. Though calling the CC they did not reply..
0|3.0|Boon: Slim Stylish Compact: can use by one hand Touch is super Front camera Bane: Battery back.. on paper only Data connection issue: need to refresh on connect, not on single touch No head phone Only 10GB space available out of 16GB (not extendable) Rare camera not as expected is equal to 8mp
0|5.0|Got the phone for 9999 in sale with 15% cash back from HDFC. Still awaiting cash back. But once I get the cash back of 1500. This would be the ultimate deal at 7500. The phone is no doubt good till it works, as their services are poor. But I am really happy with the phone. It's got ultimate feature & very good camera. Camera not good after sunset.
0|3.0|I am using this phone for week now. No major problems till now with Average performance. Cons: 1.Hardware quality is not good as Sony/Samsung products. 2.Connector for charging is not fitting well. 3.Screen is too much glossy. Pros: 1. MIUI 7 is great software with lot of customization. 2. Camera is super.
0|1.0|No one should buy this phone .As it is a chinees company it's work like a CHINA MAL and all of you know the meaning of CHINA MAL. When i brought this phone i faced problem like android system is not working ,differnt softwer after some time of run show unfurtunately ...***** softwer stoped working. sound quality is not so good.
0|4.0|Not too bad at all. Has a wonderful camera, the heating issues that everybody speaks of isn't that big of a problem. For 9999 it was definitely good vfm. Upgraded now to Miui7, MIUI is exceptionally user friendly and has very good graphics and yes as customization as you need it to be. Definitely better than other Chinese-made Indian phones out there.
0|4.0|Good phone within budget, much better than the Samsung flagship, slim fast handy looks just the accurate size, mi4 is more bulkier than mi4i, network connectivity is sometimes problematic, it does not connect sometimes, first time use had heating issues resolved after update of 800mb, nice budget OS lollipop mobile, go for it, it has torch app inbuilt
0|1.0|I purchased this mobile last month. I very much frustrated with the mobile because of heating problem.mobile is getting heated even 5 minutes usage.I thought of returning mobile however upon looking into the return policy of amazon I was really wondering, it was only 1 week. Finally i realized that wasted money for such a microwave phone.
1|1.0|its not a phone its frying pan ,I was just played a game named Peak for 10 min then i got a call , so i quit that game and tried calling that person back , but my ear was almost burned with that heat . i am contacting Customer care for any solution not sure whther they will be able to fix it or not , if they cant its just waste of money
1|5.0|A very nice phone. It works well. Properly delivered by Amazon. Seller did not sent the electronic signature box neither ordinary signature sheet which was suspicious (a friend of delivery boy delivered the product) . But the product is genuine. the packaging is neat. The product after 3 months working well. camera quality is really good.
0|5.0|Awesummmmm.....love this phone.... smooth performance...thumbs up to new update MIUI 7 it doesnt heats up now usually.... front camera generates good selfie.....its till now performing so smooth that i just love it.....hardware acceleration n graphics interface are good while playing heavy animation games..... overalll a must buy phone
0|5.0|Nice product indeed!!! Initially I was worried enough abt the heating problem I heard b4 purchasing the product but there was nothing as it is hiped so much of it...but take updates if available, your heating problem will get vanish completely afterward....abt camera need not to mention anything....nice product within the range of 10k!!
0|5.0|I'm very satisfy with this mobile Mi4i is the best phone ever i had seen in this amount this mobile is prfect for all as looking this phone is very slim and comfort in hand so i insist you if ur budget is not so high so this phone is perfect for u and i hope in future this mobile work nicely and never i'll face any problem. Insha Allah
1|4.0|I ordered Mi4i in little confusion about its performance but now I m much relieved n it's worth for your money. Amazon delivered it in time n much faster than my expectations. Phone has excellent camera quality and superb display. Phone has excellent performance just one con that is heating issue. Also it doesn't come with headphones.
0|3.0|The phone looks pretty good and the handling is just fine. But am not able to use my internet data effectively. It always shows server error though am nit facing this on any other phone with the same sim. From the reviews I hav read before no 1 else has reprted anything lyk this. I am contemplating applying for a replacement or return
1|5.0|I request people looking for sub 15k phones go for xiaomi.. I feel micromax and other local brands are not giving good specs.. I am a big fan of xiaomi. Mi4i did not disappoints. HDFC cash back will be credited within 3 months.. About heating issue i am not a big gamer and I dont think its a problem.
0|2.0|Product looks and feels good... But major drawback id heating of screen. If 3 or more apps are running, it heats up..that's a major problem as one can't even talk without feeling the heat. Also, 3000mah battery, and doesn't last even 12 hours of no game usage...that's pretty bad. Bought it seeing the discounts.. But its not worth it.
1|2.0|Its not even a month old the Mi4i mobile as started acting up. It was delivered on the 17th. Started using the cell from the 22nd. And the problem started from around the 1st week of Nov. The cell would stop on its own and then keep restarting again and again. I am yet to speak to the service agency...hope this problem is solveable.
0|4.0|Doesn't heat up ..... Really fast processor u can enjoy high quality videos. Slim and stylish also
0|1.0|the phone screen doesnot have any standard. the screen got a crack just by finger pressure,twice . On serious note dont buy this phone its just a waste.I firstly received a defective phone then mi took 3 months in getting it replaced then after one month usage the screen got cracked twice. It is not worth to specd 12k on this s***
0|4.0|Its Very good looking - light-weight phone no problem at all for me at least, but person talk a lot on mobile pls dont consider this because this phone get bit hot white long talk and also 16 gb memory (not expandable) may get less for person who like to stores hd movies an pic otherwise its an amazing device superb camera (both)
0|3.0|The display is very good. Amazing battery life. Good camera. The main issue is with the performance. It lags quite frequently and heats up considerably also. The GPU is not fit for a 1080p screen and there is CPU throttling also. MIUI is also quite heavy on the RAM. Overall it is a mediocre product as the device feels sluggish.
1|2.0|Signal issue, Heat issue, gets hang sometime ,touch is Not that smooth and it doesn't look good in Hand. Overall I will Not recommend this phone when there are so many good options available in market under 10000. I have returned mine will go new XOLO Black 1X better specs for the same price. Thanks Siddharth
0|5.0|The phone is really awesome just a bit of lag issues but no heating issue never experienced great camera and themes make this phone great all this things make phone really good and plz buy mi band with it too.best in its range and fast and user friendly must find some difficulties using miui skin but will get used to it
0|5.0|Solid phone man..!!! Best in th budget.. No complaints except heating issue which would be masked by th performance. :) Outstanding camera quality especially low light. Battery backup is good.. Feel its far more better than competitors moto g3 nd k3 note.. Lacks mmc card slot wiz slightly disappointing..
0|3.0|Average phone. The phone gets warm. Phone slips in hand. Touch is sometimes not sensed properly. Radio does not work unless a headset is connected, which is not part of the package. Though 16GB storage is claimed, only 10GB is available for use. For someone used to stock android 5.0, the navigation is very confusing.
0|4.0|Initially when i got this product within 15 hours of order time, i was very happy, however the product was defective as the sound was decreasing regularly on audio. I put a replacement order and got it replaced withing next 1day. Service of Amezon was awesome. This was one of the best phone in the price band of 12000k
1|2.0|Actually the main thing is heat .. and Camera is poor in Night mode when compared with MI prime 2 Processor is slow when compare with Prime , i have chosen 16 gb but main thing is 5 gb is utilized for system settings only I want a small confirmation if the phone is getting heat . shall i return to you
0|4.0|Loved the product. The only problem i faced was date and time was not getting set as per India time. But when i Updated it new OS update of MI, it started working fine. I bought it for my mom as a gift. The camera quality is awesome and sound is like you are listening a song in big base speakers. Overall a good buy.
0|5.0|I've been using Mi 4i (Grey) for 2.5 weeks now. I haven't had any issues so far. What I like about this phone: 1. The Camera- one of the reasons I bought this phone is the 5MP front camera. My previous phone's selfie quality sucked so bad I could barely recognise myself. The back camera has a two-tone flash which is something I've wanted for a long time. 2. The display: It has by far the best display! Even phones worth 30k don't have such a crystal clear display. 3. Smooth interface- I play a lot of games and not once has this phone hanged or even lagged. Absolutely smooth UI experience. Way surpassed my expectations. 4. Sleek but sturdy- this phone has the looks of a supermodel with the strength of a bull. Need I say more? 5. Battery- I listen to a LOT of music, play a LOT of games and window shop on Amazon A LOT and still this beast doesnt give up! Also I've to charge it for lesser time than my old phones (Xperia & Moto E) . 6. Super-fast internet, even WiFi works better. Saves me a lot of time. What I dislike about this phone: 1. What is with the "no memory card slot" trend? Why? JUST WHY?? I don't like OTG, it's not convenient for me. So I rely completely on the internal memory :( 2. No headphones :-/ Thankfully, I bought a pair of JBL last month so that's not a issue for me. But i'd heard that Mi earphones have a kickass sound quality and was eager to try them out but alas! Shelling out an extra 500 -1000bucks for headphones AFTER having paid almost 13k for this phone irks me. 3. Overheating- not really an issue since it happens to all phones. I use it continuously for hours together and I'd be rather worried if it didn't heat up :P Overall- GO FOR IT! THE best for under 15k. Spend a little extra on the headphones and memory and it's still totally worth it. I'm so glad I bought it.
1|5.0|i bought a mi 4i week back..after using i'm writing this review...this was absolutely excellent in every aspect..after updates..heating issue was greatly decreased...i dont say that it doesn't get heat..but it is not so considerable. i just loved the camera..simply saying..you can opt this phone without any doubts
0|5.0|-> No overheat -> Phone performance is awesome -> Slight lag while playing high end games -> MIUI6 software is pretty cool. Quite user friendly. -> Only drawback, I feel is no SD card slot. -> Much more than value for money. Superior than other phones in this range.
0|5.0|Don't go on the negative reviews of others about this phone. This phone is just awesome.. Update to MIUI 6.7 and not to MIUI 7 and bingo its done!! Camera and picture quality is very good.. Low light pictures are not that fine.. Really great battery backup.. It lasts upto 14hrs with both my sims in 3g mode..
1|4.0|its not 16gb internal memory its only 12.79gb in which around 2 gb is busy in system software and application. we want company should never misguide the customer and should say the truth because customers are not the fool and they know the price n software value. otherwise overall good product in this price range.
0|5.0|If you want better Smartphone, you must go for Mi4i. It has exceeded my expectations.Some of the features of this Mobile are not available in many Smartphones under 15k. Once you use this , you will not go for any other brand.Very responsive touch. Good battery life. Amazing features. No cons. Rasik Dagli
1|4.0|I won't blabber about all the specs and stuff coz you must be already aware of it. In a nutshell, it's a super phone at a price of 8.5K (got it during the sale period). Product is good. Only cons are that you cannot use an add-on SD Card and that it heats up in performance mode (even after the software update).
0|1.0|Pros: Delivery is okk Cons: 1. A lot ofHeating problem while talking. 2. Battery life is also very poor, it gets discharged soon. 3. Net connection probem, while connecting with net the signals are not coming . So guys, i wil say not go for this . Really i had a very bad experince
0|5.0|Awesome phone, except heating issues everything is perfectly fine with this phone Even the heating issues goes away if you upgrade your Android version. Photos shot in HDR mode are too good. In nutshell this phone is worth every single penny. On top of it Amazon service was too good, kudos to Amazon team.
0|5.0|I would give considering the price(just rs. 8500 after offer & cash back), look(stunning), performance(quite amazing), and also the negative reviews(that I read before purchasing) of the mobile. I thought of buying honor 7. Fortunately i chose Mi 4i On the whole I'm totally happy with the delivery and product.
1|4.0|In Diwali session offer got in 9999/-. first of all very good service from Amazaon. I ordered at night surprising got in the next morning.. 1. I have updated the phone with latest version so No heating issue so far. 2. Battery life is very good. 3. phone looks awesome 4. Very good phone quality. Cons. 1. Only issue headphone is not given with the product. we have purchase.
0|2.0|The phone is good. The issue that i faced is that the phone heats like a frying pan. This is the case when i was just checking my mails.seriously fail to understand how and why such poor performance. Really disappointing. I wasted my half day in trying to figure out why the phone is getting heated up so fast.
0|1.0|Within the month charging problem...mobile is not getting charged ..not able to transfer data via usb connector. Amazon is not replacing as only 10 days return policy. though i have heard good about phone but experiencing is such poor hardware quality. Never expected problem in new phone within 20 days.
0|1.0|Phone is totaly low class.....i have bought this phone 12 days prior and now its creating peoblem with battery....after full charging it shut down after 20-30 minute....Also its hang....file taking too much time to open due to hang....i am totaly dissapointed ....very bad product....third class qualiy.....
0|5.0|Mi4i is best mobile in terms of value for money. I got it at 10k with 1500 cash back during Amazon sale against its mrp of 13k. Only drawback is its limited memory of 16 GB. Otherwise mobile is working very good, battery back up and charging is good. It offers best features in mobiles upto 15k category.
0|4.0|Mobile is too good best at this price.no heating issues no lagging,few issues found till now are 1)Camera is not good during day and night compared with my previous nokia mobile having 8Mp camera. 2)signal breakdown some times(may be because of network but never faced with my previous mobile).
1|2.0|The product was not as good as described. The ram was mentioned 2 GB however only 550 mob available. Also the rear camera mentioned was 13 mp however it was poor than 8 mp. I have returned the product in 1 day asked for a refund . please do not go for the mobile phone. You will repent for this prpduct
1|2.0|Network issues... I'hv activated 3g services for airtel on this device but from very 1st day i can't use my services properly with only 0.20kbps to max of 1.15kbps and my playstore and browser's both also not working. I have done every possible ways to make it work but still i'm unable to use services.
0|4.0|Miui 6.7.2.0 is simply a good optimisation and phone itself is best in this price point but I would rather suggeste 32 GB varient. I had k3 note but it was heating so much and built quality is below average with lots of blotware. Paying 10000 is much better than going for moto g3.
0|3.0|Please don't give fake information of battery , that it is of 3120 mAh . The original capacity of the battery is only 3020 mAh . But overall this phone is amazing and is having better features than any other phone available in this price range . Camera quality is too good . At last it is worth buying.
0|5.0|Amazing phone, more than expected. Pros: Long Battery life, Magnificent display(1080p), sleek body, splendid design, impressive camera and many more. Cons: Gets heated(though moderately) and has got no earphones. Overall: More than sufficient in 13,000. Ab kya jaan loge itne me...
1|2.0|This phone heating while long term answering the calls. So that I returned the product.
0|4.0|It's good phone at the price range. However I should say phone has a bit heating issue if we use continuously for quite some time (after update of firmware) . I think everyone aware of this and would agree to afford due to specs & quality Vs price offering. Camera is at its best at price segment.
0|5.0|I'm really loving this great product.Having Great BATTERY Life, Quick Charge 50% in 30-40 min. Excellent Display and Perfomance also Good.Lastly Good Camera and very Slim and Light Weight. So Recommend this product to EveryOne. Thanks Xiaomi for providing Very Good Products at very Affordable Prices.
0|4.0|Everything is fantastic, except for one thing, that is, after switching on any media, like FM, or playing music, volume decreases to bare minimum , it can't be raised by any means. Wish to contact seller and manufactured for the remedy. Besides all FM channels are not getting switched on. Need help..
1|4.0|The only problem came with it is, The mike of the handset does not make a clear voice,so the other person always has problem in hearing u comfortably and everyone goes on complaining that they can't hear u and speak little loud and clear. Other than that,it is all ok. So much given in less amount.
0|4.0|Awesome phone in this price range.. The camera is been fantastic and so is the performance. Just a con about this phone is, it gets heated up a bit. I guess all the smart phones do nowadays with such high battery and processor.. Overall I would recommend this phone unless you are 24/7 game freak.
0|4.0|Nice product at very good prise 9999/-. amazon providing best deal than any other sellers and delivered with in 2-days. Recommend all to go for it : those who are worried about over heating issues, i want to confirm that after upgrading to miui 6.7 almost 90% of heating problem is resolved.
1|1.0|Hello friends I purchased mi4i I used this phone 21 days he is hang and automatic switch off and front speaker bed sound so I am apset this mobile I contact amazon coustmer care he say this phone is not return or replace So don't buy this phone I think this review not show amazon
0|4.0|Good phone for a good buy in the sale time. Yeah it is becoming hot at few times but that is bearable, I can understand that is due to its OCTA core processing. No other lagging or any other issues observed so far. I am not a power user though. Will keep post if I see any issues.
0|3.0|Mi4i Very nice and cute phone. Both front and back camera awesome. Working fast. But giving very much heat after updated also and also not connecting internet even when having full network. These 2 issue which im seeing after usage of 10 days. Other than this, it is really lovely mobile to use.
0|4.0|Just Received Before time from Amazon. No problem in Shipping & delivery process. Looks, Processsor is perfectly fine. Good camera quality just little less to 13 MP . Front camera is not functional when u have screen guard. is this regular or is this a problem please guide me. Overall best ...
0|2.0|Product is good but due to some issues the camera stopped working. So had to return.
0|5.0|Awesome phone no heating and no fast drainage battery problem .... Its looks so nicw
0|3.0|Recently i have taken this product in cash back offer(HDFC). 2Months completed still cashback pending. HDFC customer care said we are not responsible for this. Please don't trust these offers in Amazon.in site. Product is very good and working fine no issues found, but audio quality not good.
1|4.0|Pros: 1.Slim body 2.octa core processor 3.nice cameras specially the front one 4.fast charging and up to 4hrs with heavy uses 5.connectivity is good. Con's: 1.no expandable memory. Only 10.38 GB user can use. 2.only 1gb ram is available for user.
0|5.0|Superbbbbbbbb cellphone Camara Quality very nice battery back up very good display amezing sliem phone sound quality is excellent really very nice cell phone but its a probleme my cell phone mayak are damage so i have replacement this thankyou amazone service
0|4.0|So far so good. I ordered the product on 13th Oct and received it by 15th oct,thanks to Amazon's two-day delivery.the blue color is just awesome and the miui is also great. It is definitely a good buy any this price,after installing the new miui update there is no heating problem upto now
0|1.0|Thought i have purchase this mobile from amazon and also applied screen guard. But now this mobile replaced because of defect. The pain which i have been through and even money which are wasted who will be responsible for the same. Kindly improve the service so we face some less pain.
0|4.0|Got the defective phone on first delivery which did not have any display on starting but the phone was promptly replaced by Amazon. The second phone is working good. Phone has excellent camera and good built in. Didn't liked its speaker quality much. Overall a good budget phone.
0|2.0|camera is blur & Heating Issue. I got it after replacement but issue not resolved.
0|4.0|Very nice product. Pros 2GB RAM, Awesome camera, MIUI. Cons Heating Problem Self declaration for the international standards without going for actual certification. Amazon rocks. Morning ordered the mobile. Evening got the it with one delivery
0|1.0|This is very disappointing. Front cam is not functiining after a few days of use.
0|5.0|Nice one... Better functionality.... Smooth usability... Say better in price range..... Just slightly heating after overuse with 3d games or internet..... And u know smartphones with snapdragon processor having littlebit problem of heating... So keep it outside nd go for it...
0|4.0|Pros Superb look. Excellent features. Light weight. Fast processing. Battery backup is good. Works nicely with WiFi. Cons Mobile data pack doesn't work many times. Applock doesn't work. Heating is still an issue although not serious problem as it recides eventually.
1|2.0|Not up to the mark,hangs alot an heating like Furness, I used this phone and return in 4 days, Amazon's return policy is very good. Then I brought red mi 2 prime which is too much better than 4i, red mi 2 prime is a very good phone in this price,no hangs no heats, full paisa vasul
0|5.0|After exploring dozen of devices i have made right choice by going to mi4i.it has great features,slim and light in weight...Camera is best at its price tag, it captures stunning pictures even at low light condition. I got phone delivered within 11 hours ..good job by amazon
1|4.0|having heating issue after update also..Mobile heats too much after camera use.
0|3.0|Perrfomence is good ! Hardware and software bugs deprive it.After the update my front camera got affected and its grainy. Such bug from a renowned company wasn't expectedby me.have to replace my front camera.amazon doasent replace it !otherwise phone is beat buy for the price.
1|4.0|Phone was good in camera, response, no lag Sadly has to visit the service center within 3 weeks of purchase Display broke on drop from 1.5 feet, replacement cost 4.2k Got to know from the mi service center that there were at least 10 mi's with the display issue
0|4.0|Did not get Charger Socket in the box. Data cabel is there and even the sim pin. Mi 4i is fantastic product. But this glitch makes me feel sick. About phone guys phone is smilly awesome.. Go for it, if memory is not a parameter for your worries.
0|2.0|dont buy it , it is not price worthing smartphone,go for samsung sony etc. it is looking good but it is total crap. i also buyed one and screen got scratch by just a pensil . i have putted both things in my bag ,and it happens. so all they are claming is fake
0|2.0|Though it is loaded with all latest specs but does not work per specs. Very slow.. lot of.. toooooo much of lag.. double tap to on the screen is not at all responsive.. very disappointed.. NOT TO THE MARK.. Will not recommend to anybody.. Only plus..sleek-sexy look of phone
0|3.0|E.mobile who sale this phone very bad packaging ..in plastic bag just really so bad.try to improve your packaging. About mobile update OTA required 1gb omg to much ...its first mobile I see to much data for update. Just go with brand . camera is good in day nnight also.
1|4.0|Good mobile overall, i received this on last wensday and used for 4-5 days. three things i like in it its battery backup, second its front camera clearity and the last which is its music on headphone is awsome. so value for money. i did not experiece any heating issue yet.
0|3.0|The phone is very good but little bit heating issue is in it & so much simple functions means not a designer view at screening.. The camera quality is not as good as compared by samsung J5. Both phones having 13 MP camera on back. Colour contrast is not good in camera
0|5.0|Product is sooooooooo goood but external memory not support. But superbbbbbb.
1|4.0|Mobile is very nice. But some heating problem during game as well as when see the videos camary is good no dought also displsy quality is good yet iam not getting cash back So during purchase take care during sale may be offer given is fake one
0|5.0|It's an amazing phone. I will start with the other commenters who say that the apparently the rose part would suggest yellow...The phone is nice but it just went up almost 3999 after I bought it. I've got only 9999+15% Cashback offers. Thanks Amazon with seller
0|5.0|camera good both back n front.... nice display performance wise good very advance .....and also good standard for china iphone..fooly "paisa wasool" headphone sound better then iphone main sound good light wait body quality good
1|5.0|Been using it for a month, and no complaints so far. I especially like the 16GB internal storage, which means I don't need to think twice when installing apps (unlike my habit with previous phones). Front facing camera was surprisingly good. Hope it lasts for a while :-)
0|3.0|The phone is amazing comparitively. Just a issue is Heating! Other than that its amazing. Screen looks awesome and phone quality is also as per the specifications. Thanks! and happy to have it. I would definitely recommend the same to my friends.! :)
0|5.0|It's been quite a while I have bought this product and it's absolutely flawless. I feel that I got the value for money I paid. Performance is top notch. Display quality is amazing. The phone looks gorgeous in grey. If you are investing money on phone, invest on this.
1|4.0|The Phone which i like the most purchased for my sister, at a diwali offer for 9999(-15% on HDFC still to get that). At beginning the phone was hanging but later didnt faced that issue. She used only Camera and Call so for hers its working good.
0|5.0|certified buyer HEIGHTS OF AWESOMENESS......:) Awesome phone...no lags..no heating problem...great UI.... **** Battery ***** Camera(front n rear) **** UI ****** Touch :} + NO LAGS - No headphones - lack of accessories in market IMPORTANT POINT: Update your phone before using it, there is a update of 800mb. IT WILL SOLVE THE HEATING ISSUE ETC
0|5.0|This is one of the best phones i have ever used. i bought a 32gb version from MI site but i am writing this review here as some people are misleading by adding negative reviews. to be honest this is an amazing phone bang on for the price offered. 1. Heating: this phone gets just a little warm not too much i have used this phone for a week now even 3 days on the previous version. it just gets warm, stop calling it a heater or stuff , a power packed phone will get this warm if you find it too hot better buy some samsung or nokia 101 because that is what is suited for you like how can you not expect a a octa core phone to heat this much. 2. Lagging: there is no lag in this phone at all. miui is heavy but the ram is optimized enough to let you have a lag free experience. 3. Miui needs to be studied well before you know all the features, so stop complaining about things missing everything is well perfect just explore the setting properly. 4.Sound: sound is little low but i found it normal not too low and that is not a deal breaker at all. The phone is the best in this range: perfect camera, perfect looks and perfect experience. Those complaining about only 9 gb available guys every phone having 16gb internal will offer only 9-10gb so flipkart or mi is not misleading you, you are just dumb and not entitled to buy a smart phone. In my opinion you should buy this phone without thinking at all don't think about the bad reviews it is a must buy and trust me you will love it :D if you feel low on storage get a 32gb version. the only problem is a litle low sound but that can be managed. So stop getting misleaded by negative reviews this is by far the best phone in this range
0|5.0|It probably is too early to write a review (I might jinx it!) since I bought it less-than-a month back but so far, there isn't one thing I don't like about it. I love the look, the size and both the cameras are so good!!!! The battery lasts REALLY long too. Love it.
0|3.0|Friends i want to tell u first thing about the phone, you cannot put the memory card in it and you cannot remove the back panel or bettry. Sometimes when i on the net then the network is gone and sometimes it shows sim card removed. Otherwise phn is good.
0|5.0|Excellent buy in diwali sale Very good camera both front and back Initially heated a bit but after miui update no heating issue Very smooth working and easy miui Must buy product if limited memory is not the issue and want one of the best camera
0|4.0|Excellent processing..great camera rear and front but not with so much detailing....does heat up while playing games such as frontline commando....excellent build quality and battry life....gpu performance is also v gud... At this price this is the best phone
1|4.0|Product is good. Specially the price tag. i got this phone only in 9999/_ Phone experience is good. There is no any lack or any issue. Camera quality is also good. There is only one lack in this phone, Like, this mobile doesn't have memory card support.
0|5.0|Thank to Amazon for the faster delivery as I got my phone 1 day before the delivery date. This is such a amazing phone , go for it ....don't think . value for money Amazing camera quality, nice battery back, lots of function. Highly recommendable phone.
1|4.0|Very good phone Camera is good Heats a little while playing heavy games Its little bit laggs during playing fts The major issue is battery is not too good The best part of the mobile is the display and speaker.. Network is good also
1|4.0|This phone is good but it could better.rear camera quality is no as good as 13 mp camera should have.half of the he phone capacity has been occupied by apps.and 80 ram has been occupied by processing of apps,means users can not play game and hd videoes smoothly.
0|5.0|thank you Amazon for such an amazing phone. plus points are HD display, fast internet, lovely touch response, front cam is just an masterpiece by xiomi , no heating problem at all, I'll definitely recommend everyone to buy this all time beast...........
0|4.0|The product was good. There are heating issues somtimes but the fon is completely normal aftr performing a full reset aftr device is updated and then charge battert full and use it untill its drained and ur fon switches off n charge it n njoy....mi4i
0|5.0|Awesome i am the Xiaomi Fan and this is my third purchase. Overall i got this beast at just Rs. 8500/- thank you Amazon India your services are awesome and deals. Best than rest. Now always making purchase through amazon, flipkart RIP their people sucks...
0|2.0|my friend brought tis phone its good when i used it...And i byed a new one..jus 2 days before but it is strucking and front cam is slow..and apps are strucking ........and slow... Hoping it is a default in piece so i requested for a replace ment......
0|3.0|Mi 4i , is giving a problem , one month its running ok, now its not taking the charge from yesterday. can i get any suggestion. because when i tried for replacement option in amazon, it shows not allowed for return or replacement. what can i do,
1|2.0|In Spite octa core processor and 2 GB RAM its very slow on processing, Battery also not good as claimed 3120 MAh exhausted very fast. Very poor and unexpected performance. Repenting on my decision to buy MI phones. Will never purchase Mi phone in future.
0|2.0|Selfie camera is faulty or has developed faulty within a 1 month use. (It was used to click selfie once or twice in a month.) But all of a sudden on 10th nov when selfie camera was put on and the entire screen become blurred with magenta/pink tiny spots.
1|4.0|Mi4i actually lives up to its expectations. Call quality is good and same goes with the camera. HD recording is also good. Only flaw with this phone is, its too slippery to hold. It slipped off my hand once and the temperd glass protection is damaged.
1|2.0|Mobile Heating too. Trying for updates, WIFI is not connecting. But it is late I realised to return today. (On 12th day). Waste of money. I lost satisfaction. But, Xiaomi I recommend. May be My Mi4i piece is defective it seems.
1|1.0|After update phone is not starting even force reboot , cache clean up also not working. First time with very much disappointed with Amazon purchase.Poor performance, Out of 2 GB only 700 to 900 MB RAM Free space. Mi 4i (16GB, Grey)
0|1.0|Received the phone yesterday. But both cameras are not working. Clicking on camera app says: Camera error: Still can't connect to camera. Try restarting the device. I restarted several times which dint any improvements. So raised a refund request.
0|5.0|This one replaced the old non smart Nokia that my wife has been using so far. I'm already using this model since June and was quite happy with it. This one I got for just 10K saving 2K in the bargain. Was a big surprise for my wife on our anniversary.
0|3.0|no, i don't think . Its not up to my expection as the phone camera slightly blur when i update my mi4i os to 6.7...If i say about merits then it has great looks , good battery backup, nice picture resolution, It a little heatup but that can be ignore.
0|4.0|used for a week & I love the mobile. got good price 11999/-. Waiting for the15% cashback on credit card. Battery is very good & last for 24 hours with moderate use. Camera is excellent. It takes time to operate mobile features but its smooth now.
0|3.0|The features are satisfactory but the biggies disappointment for me in Mi4i is its heating issue, due to this i cannot talk more then few minutes because phone gets too hot to hold near ears. everybody in family experience same issue with this phone.
0|4.0|It's a good product at this range . camera quality so good and many features available in camera. I use this product last two months but no problem found in it. So it is best deal for us...everything is OK .but one issue in it no memory card slot.
0|4.0|Awesome phone... Must buy... Dont follow any other just go for it....
0|5.0|Excellent both camera , Battery lasting 36 hour in Normal use if charge full u use more than 5 hour on WiFi continue use Smooth fast display quality excellent Looks very well,I buy flip cover from mi store original its very good
0|4.0|Camera , battery backup, design, screen clarity & speed is awesome Only issue is speaker volume is very low. Am not hearing the ring Small heating issue is there. But after putting back cover & scratch guard it is ok Value for money
0|3.0|Good Lags at times And the major problem is that it doesn't connect to your wifi which is very essential for a smartphone You can have it as a secondary mobile and not the primary one provided you a flagship model of any brand .....
1|1.0|The phone had charging and sensor problem and when ordered for a replacement, I get to know that the product is not available when the same product is available in same colour on the same site. Also, I don't know what is happening with my product.
0|1.0|When I open the camera app, the quality is good but after some time it changes to poor quality and showing dots. I updated the software and the problem did not go away. I also tried with different camera apps, it didn't work. Otherwise its good.
0|2.0|heating issue. u cant keep phone in your pocket becoz heat may create irritation at your thigh. only 9gb is usable when data cable connected. only 700-850mb ram is available for use. pros-price and looks, screen pic quality.
1|5.0|Amazing phone...very sleek and lightweight. For people having heating issues update to stable version 6.5.5.0 and for people having battery issues download apps that kill any unwanted running programs from play store (ps- i use battery doctor) :)
0|1.0|Mi4i battery performance is very bad and this set is hanging problme
1|4.0|Postives : 1. 2 GB RAM. 2. 16 GB internal memory. 3. Good camera (both back and front). 4. Very light weight. 5. Value for money. Negatives : 1. No expandable memory card. 2. Not many colour options.
1|2.0|Very nice and sleek phone. Unfortunately this doesn't come with headphone. Very very very bad news is this will not connect to your car audio system via Bluetooth. You will not be able to get contact list from your Samsung mobile via Bluetooth.
0|4.0|Good phone. Have used it for only 2 days yet though. Interface is closer to iPhone with flexibility and features of Android. Although the device gets slightly heat up, which is not encouraging. My previous phone was nexus 5, so that was better
0|4.0|Just awesome phone @reasonable price.. Camara quality is super duper. Front cam is awesome tooo.. Battery backup iss vary good. Fullfill phone u can say.. But earphone u have to buy on your own. Thats why m giving 4 stars. Love this phone
0|5.0|Amazing hardware for the price. Lagdroid & MIUI have become boring.
0|5.0|Looks fabulous.. Mind blowing product. Battery backup also good. External memory should be also provided. Earphone is not provided with this phone so it should be also provided of the same brand. Both rear and primary both camera are awesome.
0|5.0|Its a very nice phone.. Previously i bought yu yureka plus which is also a superb phone but battery life is too weak.. Phone use to die early.. But mi4i has nice battery life.. Excellent frnt camera.. And a compact size.. Im loving it.. ??
0|4.0|Phone is good, but Amazon promised 15% discount on usage of Amazon app for this purchase if we use HDFC card. its more than two months, still i have not received any response on cashback offer. It looks like Amazon has deceivedin this offer.
0|5.0|I must say Camera of Mi4i is absolutely fantastic. My overall experience of this mobile till now is good. Past one month I am using this phone and specially battery life is very good. The only thing which is lacking in this is SD card slot.
0|5.0|After miui7 update with full gaming and little music and also wifi or mobile data are continuously on with auto sink on gets 1and half day battery life...even the built quality of the phone is also good...no heating issue after miui7 update
1|5.0|I have been using the handset for 4 days and I took a right decision..!! Battery backup is really awesome, interface is also pretty impressive.. Loving it as fulfilled by needs..!! But it took 7 days to deliver which is a bit annoying..!!
0|1.0|I'm buying at September 15 from flipcart.. my phone automatically leave Sim connectivity... both simcard auto restart for network search. my wi fi 3G but mi 4i wi fi catch much slowly... I am cry for lost my 12999 rs. for this product.
0|4.0|Except external memory.. Very thng is outstanding..heating issue will be set right in max of 3months..performance n cam n display n quality awesome..frequently check for updates n update device to earlier versions to get good performance..
0|2.0|Extremely small font size for SMS etc. No impact when Font size is increased in the settings as it does not change the system font size. Similarly the Muisc app etc also has extremely small fonts and one has to download other apps to use.
0|1.0|After one month of Use, screen is not working.... now i hv to go to service center.... dont this is a pain after paying big amt to buy this phone.... my number is 9986953322. let Me c if any amzon guys or xiami guys wil try to cal me.
0|3.0|Phone is really good , All the features are really awesome and meets my all expectation , only downside is since I started using this phone , I am having tons of calldrop , that's the only problem I am facing . camera is really worth it.
0|4.0|Product features and quality is good, very good looking handset and well shipped in time to me after purchasing.Features and specification arr very good in comparison to other brands in this Range, Discount available was also attractive.
1|1.0|Huge Disappointment, Total waste of money Camera is not working, Play Store app download error on first day itself and as usual Heating issue with this Mi Crap. Please don't buy this product from amazon. Sale sucks.
0|1.0|disappointed with the product.. no service, gone dead in 4 months
0|5.0|Excellent product. Delivered in time and orginal product. Love it
1|1.0|Poor performance mobile is very slow better to buy a DABBA mobile
1|5.0|Worth every penny. Note: received a faulty adapter in package but thanks to Mi service, got to replace it within a day. And Amazon thanks for making the buy more sweeter with the save i made on Sale.Complete Paisa Vassol!!:-)
0|5.0|Mi 4i is good mobile
0|5.0|Value for many with awesome hardware... Competes with i phone 6. Display, camera, performance well above par.. Only drwaback no expandable memory slot.. Heating issue addressed through software updates.. Much better than k3 note..
0|2.0|The mi 4i phone which was purchased by me on 14th nov 2015 is not working .It does nt recognising any sims there by the purpose of cell os not full filled.So to day I return the cell and send it back to the amazon by bludart services.
0|5.0|Perfect gift for my mom. Why? Super slim 7.8mm light weighted 130gm Very friendly UI for someone who is not tech savvy. Excellent design to use with one hand. Feels premium. Camera best in its class.
0|4.0|guyz.. received Mi 4i on 19 th Oct. here is my short review ( MIUI 6.6.6.0) Display : Amazing performance : lagged once, when i was adding accounts and syncing it. no other problems. installed around 12 utility apps. UI is flawless I am not a gamer, so cant tell anything about gaming experience Battery : it is 4.00 PM now and it shows 53% batter, around 25 calls, connected to 3g & Wifi and 3 app installation ( I was checking the settings through out the day) Charging time is nearly 4 hrs. heating : Phone heats when charging. gets little warm if we make calls longer than 10 minutes MIUI : great Camera : not great compared to my previous Lumia 730 ( Lumia 730 had 6.7 MP Carl siezz) Voice clarity : good As of now my only concern is the ringer volume. It is very low. I already missed many calls within two day Overall satisfied with the performance
0|5.0|Awesome phone Right Choice made by me Fully satisfied with the configuration of mobile Display is Crisp Color reproduction great Display size handy Battery back up good Camera is awesome Go for it FOLKS
1|4.0|The first piece delivered was defective as the front camera was not working. I reported the matter the 4th day of receiving it, but had to give a few reminders before it was replaced.The phone now received is working perfectly fine.
0|4.0|Excellent device except one problem Pros, Excellent full HD display Camera Ram and processer Weight less Better Battery Con's Only heating when using heavy games and 3g usage
0|1.0|My humbled reqest is plz avoid this phone(mi4i).....by using dis irritating me lot....hanging,wifi direct is not working, also you can't search more than one webpage , heating, by using on 3g network also not synchronising propley
1|2.0|No sound, not a great camera, Google account doesn't sync often
0|2.0|Piece delivered was of poor quality. Speakers stopped working within one week of use and thereafter started producing wiered sound on every ring tone. Expected good quality product but disillusioned with the piece delivered to me.
0|3.0|Phone ringer sound is too less, and no option to increase further. Consumes battery a lot.... Few guys can say - its HD display - it has to consume more power - then mobil batteries needs to be accordingly I wud say....
1|1.0|It is like a heater.we cannot talk more than five minutes. Speaker volume is very very slow.even i cannot listen incoming call ring in my pocket. I request the company if these problems occur only to me then please change my set.
0|3.0|all good, just disappointed that 20 days into purchase had to take it to the service center cause the phone would sometimes automatically restart while on a call. The software has been updated and hopefully the problem is solved.
0|1.0|phone is continuously getting Hang, Screen is getting restart,
0|1.0|This phone is overheating and not able to complete a call due to heat...after completing a two minutes call I feel pain on my ear and head... I return the phone for replacement to seller... But the phone look is so good...
1|4.0|Its getting heat up to 39-40 degree while using mobile data and browsing..company should take appropriate action to resolve the issue other wise its is a good mobile. Full battery goes up to 24 hrs. Camera quality is very good.
0|5.0|best phone till now what i purchased. best camera. best processor. previously i have used samsung, gionee, microsoft phones much better than all of them. One should buy, if like to click pics and want to have best smart phone.
0|5.0|Thanks to Amazon for very fast delivery as promised. About the product : - 5 stars. nothing less. At this price, this is amazing. The display and MUI are awesome. The phone is very fast. Nice phone.
0|3.0|I had buyed this aug 15 2015 after one month speaker is showing some problem. And Slightly heating affairs Only internal memory noexternal sd slot Out of 16gb only 10.5 gb is available but not sufficient. 32gb might be better.
0|1.0|Not satisfied with mobile in terms of battery and performance. Mobile is also getting hanging.. Will wait for 1 more week otherwise need to cancel this mobile order and buy other brand mobile.. Mi3 was much better then Mi4i..
0|3.0|MIUI Not a stable version though it shows stable and the hardware is not up to the mark that it feels so sluggish so many times though it has got Octa-core processor with 2GB RAM. Apart from it camera, dual SIM, etc are good.
0|4.0|Very zippy n easy to use. No heating issue. Camera compared to other same range phones it's better. 1 full charge Will last minimum 24hours on 4g. Only low side is, it takes 2hours 30 min for full charge.
0|5.0|Excellent Phone with Full fledged features blindly go for it.
0|5.0|Best to buy this set worth of money. Camera quality is awesome Both front and rear Sound quality is good Body furnish is very perfect just like Samsung S3 . Battery backup is awesome Best phone in this price range.
1|4.0|The camera quality is good.You don't get headphones with it so you ll have to buy it..About the heating issue,when continuously used it becomes hot at times.Apart from that the delivery was good.The phone is worth the price.
1|4.0|The first Mi4i delivered to me turned out to be a lemon. The phone blinked even when switched off. That being said, I got the phone replaced for a new one within 4-5 days and it works well. So far, so tumultuous but so good.
0|4.0|Shipping was on time and an awesome phone.I have seen review with heat issue. I haven't experiance any such issue yet. I would give 5* if amazone provide a screen guard (Mi.com provides it. Sadly no shipping in my location)
0|4.0|Phone received with in 20hours after ordering. Thanks to Amazon for fast delivery. Built quality is solid. Both front & rear camera are OK. Ear phones are not included in package. Other features will be reviewed after using.
0|1.0|All of the buyer i want to inform you about this phone-- Only Battery Backup is good according to android mobiles but all other performance is very poor. I purchase this mobile in 9999 and after my order its price will increase by 12999 that means seller selling defective piece also . when we received product mobile is looking brand new but reality is this mobile is defective. main problem is " mobile heating" Is mobile ka sirf battery backup acha hai and resolution bhi bahot acha hai par iske alwa is phone mei aur kuch bhi acha nhi hai. Phone mein aap chahe koi bhi data save na kare iske bad bhi ye hang hota hai, mere kharidne ke first day se hi ye hang ho raha hai. and ye mobile ki sabe badi problem hai ki ye baht jyada garm hota hai. is phone ki heating itni jayad hai ki aap iski display par bhi hath rakh nhi payenge. so please dont buy this phone
0|3.0|Camera and features are excellent but sometimes the music or video volume starts well but get down automatically by itself to inaudible even at full volume ..might be a speaker issue .still to figure out why that happens...
0|5.0|It's really fantastic handset in its range and mostly I like is its front camera nland the OS of MI, its really user friendly. Yes little bit heating problem is there but after hours of continuous usage. N that's to normal.
0|3.0|Handset features are really good but heating issues i faced and it takes a lot of time in charging and sometimes hangs up.....Returned back to Amazon. I really appreciate their Return Policy....Full marks for Team Amazon :)
0|5.0|An awesome phone. A must buy at this price. Amazing camera,simply amazing. Even in the dark the pics are clear. And there is not much problem of heating...The only thing..I wish it has more internal memory,16GB is too less
0|1.0|After updating mobile did not start.i have to return product
0|3.0|I am really choosy guy. But still its a nice product. Limited storage is one loop or its good to go. But yeah I do face problem with my wifi hotspot related things like xender or file transfer though.
0|5.0|phone is awesome no doubts!! But memory availability was very less! out of 16 GB you get only 8GB to use.. and no Card support! and yeah.. The best feature.. it doesn't mixes service messaged with your personal messages!!
1|4.0|Everything is good, but I have few concerns: 1. 16 GB ROM & 2GB RAM is not enough. 2. Non support of LTE on SIM-1 slot. (SIM1--2G & SIM2--LTE) 3. Heating issue will be resolved by updating to MIUI - 6.0.2
0|1.0|returned back on the next day itself as it stopped working.
0|4.0|Good one.. Well nothing can be compared with MIUI.. It's the best software company.. I'm loving it.. In starting there came problem.. software issue.. But it was resolved later.. Till now phone is working quite well.. But only one issue is that there is not any expansion option in the memory.. And also mic isn't working well in speaker mode..
0|1.0|After 2 days of use phone start getting trouble problems are: 1. It hangs 2. Screen start fluctuating. 3. Blurred images from back camera 4. A big heating issue even after update. so friends be aware of this phone .
1|5.0|Initial product was defective but the replacement product is working fine. In replacement I have met with loses of rs.200.00 in form of screen gaurd. I request to delivered the screen gaurd free of cost. Rest is fine.
0|5.0|Great phone. No heating issues after the big update of 900 mb. Runs all day with light gaming. Full hd movies lags if HW selected in MX player. Runs smooth when SW selected. Played angry birds 2 with some slowness
1|5.0|No one can say its a bad product. Love the technology love Mi. If someone don't know anything about smartphone. He also say its very good. Upgrade the MIUI 6.0. Customize your phone. The phone will turn into iPhone.
0|1.0|I took this mobile 2 months before, and now I am regretting that y I have taken this mobile, its not all working. its dead. not getting on at all. I suggest all the customers not to buy this product. fraud product.
1|5.0|Awesome phone in this range. Guys lookoutn for 10000 range phone must have this piece Camera == as mention supeeeb Processor == gazab Resolution == high quality boke to paisa vasool beedooo
1|1.0|Speaker not working properly within one week of purchase.
1|4.0|product is good..amazon delivery is awesome..hatsoff to u
0|3.0|Though I didn't face any heating issue as hyped but the phone gets slower as you keep on installing more and more apps and sometimes it takes a while to open few apps. Overall its good phone at the price of 13K.
1|4.0|Xeomi Mi4i is good product. It's fast. But battery last about less than 1 day if data enabled.If you work long, it heat up slightly or more. Over all good product. UIMI operating system is good enough.
0|4.0|Built + design 8/10;display 9/10;camera 9.5/10;sound(earphone) 9 /10;battery: 7/10 overall performance 8/10 ...giving this review after using 30 days. Still i say "Must have phone." Love you AMAZON.
0|3.0|Has Some Demerit. First Headphone is not their. Second we can't use external memory as their is no extra slot for it , we have 2 rely on internal memory only. Don't Play more games as it get heated up very soon.
0|1.0|Product was not as expected. It would hang if you try to use some apps or use camera. I had to return the product. But anyways good service by Amazon, didn't get any problem in returning the product.
0|5.0|Excellent Mobile ! Everything is good , you don't have any reason not to buy it at Rs. 8500 . Only limitation is 16 GB memory but that can me manageable as it supports OTG so you can connect pendrive.
0|1.0|Display got blurred after 15 days of usage.returned back
0|1.0|Heating problem and Wi-Fi connecting also create problem
0|5.0|It's value for money in this price segment you can't find better than mi4i but only one problem it have no expandable memory but in overall it's best its heat up but not more then other in this price range
1|5.0|Nice phone with a decent touch. That too at a lower price. Battery backup is quite good unlike other android devices. Only come I feel is no expandable memory slot and fixed battery. Otherwise phone is smart.
1|4.0|There so much bulls*** crazy revièws are written here..its like people are having ADD! Overall good phone! Camera is just OK,not so clear when compared to any Carl Zeiss lens camera lenses.battrey is average
0|2.0|So many issues wit this phone.. it hangs a lot..... It dials numbers automatically even wen the screen has been locked.. heats up pretty soon. Absolutely waste of money.. sorry seller. But it's fact..
0|3.0|My phone has a problem like...if i make a call my screen is gtng off...i can hear people speaking but after i speak im nt able to cut the call. The screen is gtng off...i dnt know what is the error in this.
0|5.0|At first I got a defective handset, BUT Amazon's return policy is so good they returned it with no question asked. I am completely happy with the Mi4i handset. Perfectly balanced between feature and price.
0|1.0|no option to copy content from other mobile. No option for Bulk deletion. It's one of the worst in terms of software. Hardware is better than the contemporaries but the software is too boring
0|4.0|All the heating issues are gone after miui7 update good camera , back camera is excellent front camera is okayish I would rate it 8/10 . if you are okay with 16gb and miui then this phone is the nest phone
0|3.0|it is ok but i did not find the original product seal wherein the 20 digit security code is to be located for verification of originality. the print on the back of the mobile is also not of quality print.
0|4.0|Amazon's delivery is very fast and perfect. For the mobile Mi4i , I can say it is good and I am satisfied with performance except the battery back up . Rest every thing fine for the last one month so far.
0|5.0|very beautiful and elegant phone. With in this price we are getting a good cam quality, Nice sound and full featured android smart phone. What else you are looking for. I just loved the way it works.
1|5.0|This phone has crisp and very clear display and a very good camera to take pictures with. Overall my experience of using this phone so far has been very good. I think this phone is good value for money.
1|5.0|A must purchased phone. Camera, Processor, Performance are suparb. Only storage is a demerit of this phone otherwise it deserves 9/10 marks. I purchased this phone in just 8500/- on Amazon
0|3.0|mobile is good by features screen display sleek and good looking bt i face problem call dropped every time when i dial or receive any call so main function of talkingis not ffulfilled so only three star
0|1.0|I liked all the features of the mobile (look, quality, battery, camera etc) but very unhappy with the heat getting generated while taking over the phone. Not even worth 1star because of the heating issue
0|1.0|I am giving it a single star because of one major reason: The piece I received was defective (the phone rebooted repeatedly on its own accord). Now I wait to see how soon my money is refunded.
1|4.0|the main draw back is it does not have menu everything is on the desktop if by mistake u delete the icon that app geys automatically uninstalled and its not the user freindly as samsung micromax are
0|2.0|Honest review.. Cheap build quality. Lags in camera... Front camera will get black when in ise... A average battery.. I dont think you should spend yoir money on this one....go for Mi4 rather than this
0|1.0|Blunder for me.......will never buy any xiaomi product
0|5.0|I was a bit skeptical but the phone actually turned out pretty good, especially considering the price. Lots of functions and storage, could be a bit faster but overall ok. Very happy with the purchase.
0|5.0|The delivery & product is as described. But before start using ensure you update through the Updater available in the Mi4i. Otherwise the phone will tend to heat up.It will get resolved with the update.
1|4.0|I purchased the mi4i after reading the reviews and have to say it is worth every penny. The phone is slim, the camera is awesome. Like the simplicity of miui interface as well. Over all its worth it
0|4.0|Best phone in this segment. Camera is awesome. I am a happy Xiaomi user, I almost have all the models of Xiaomi. Worth of buying this and talking about the delivery of Amazon is just fantastic. Go 4 it
0|3.0|MIUI is not good.. it has got lag.. they would have been better off with stalk android. I returned the phone. Yes, phone skin is looking very nice specially the yellow one really looks very good.
0|1.0|Don't purchase this phone. After month of purchase the front camera is not working properly. I have seen lot many complaints about the front camera but till date company has not provided any solution.
1|1.0|hanged on first day, didnt working great even it has 2 gb ram but you can use only 500mb maximum with hangs 10.5 gb space . good looking but doesn,t goes to my expectation ,its keyboard is also wrost
0|5.0|It's the best in that range Look- ultimate, slim Process - good, not hanging problem Touch- super All things are good but not any expendable memory slot that is the negative point
0|5.0|Great Packing , Swift delivery before stipulated time. Excellent phone. Gives the Moto G3 a run for the money. Only drawbacks are limited storage and the user interface compared to Moto G3.
0|1.0|Had to return the set for the following problems: 1) battery issues: despite claiming to have a high battery backup, this drains faster than regular phones which are about an year old. It's worthless to have such a battery given that it's irreplaceable. 2) lag: I use Google keyboard as opposed to the default Swiftkey keyboard. And as compared to regular phones ( moto g the one I was using), this had a lag. 3) wake screen notifications: any message or WhatsApp text would wake the screen. There ain't any option to disable that. The only alternative being disabling notifications of individual app. On the good side, the phone is not at all bulky and fits perfectly in the palm. UI is fine ( apart from some lags)
1|4.0|Very Good Phone. Nice User interface. Very Good battery back up.24hours battery Back on 100% charging. Overall good deal I got on this phone in Rs 9999 from Amazon App. People can go for this phone.
1|4.0|At 8500 price definetly it was worth..every thing is fine...only lack of expandable memory option dispointing sometimes...otherwise it is worthy at this price level..camera,display,bettery superb...
0|3.0|Hi,I am writing this with 2 days of experience ,I like everything except one thing i.e If we use this phone continuously for 30 min ,it's getting heat.Other wise it's very good mobile for that cost.
0|3.0|i'm using tis mob last one month all features good, but browsing not gud in this mob, always shows web page not available when mobile data on, so surfers dont buy this mobile .... go for branded mob
1|5.0|Excellent...just no words....no hitting issue..afterall its snapdrgn 615,that much hit is natural.but b carefull.too much slim n slick.already dropped once...buy a cover b4 duying this cute..cheers.
0|5.0|a great power packed phone wid all the features at an unbelievable rock bottom prize. cant get better than this. got it a month back. and i am more than satisfied with the performance. a must buy .
0|1.0|Over heating on data usage of 30 min.or 10 min of calling...battery backup puts in memory of jellybean system time phones although 3030mah..fraud from Mi ...u can't surf on 3g over 2-3 hours.
0|1.0|I didn't satisfied I thought its a duplicate product
0|1.0|First few days it started hanging while clicking photos I ignored it....facebook started hanging I ignored considering facebook is a heavy app....and now phone is not working at all....Dont buy it
0|4.0|Every thing is good about this phone except out of 2gb RAM 1 gb is always in process & you get only 1gb for use . NO HEATING problem. Camera is awesome. But u get only 11GB/16GB .
0|4.0|The service is awesome and product delivered bfor time quoted.I'm very satisfied with the features n speed at such a throwaway price. I wud recommend this fone is more than a worth at this price
0|5.0|It's one the best mid ranger in the world! Excellent display quality! Elegant software inside! Very good gaming graphics and above all very good camera quality! Proud to have it in my hands :) !
0|4.0|Superb Camera and touch.... but heating fast,... :(
0|5.0|Awesome phone and excellent performance with great looking and stylish phone in cheap price, awesome front camera, Good battery Backup, nice user interface(MIUI) overall excellent phone
0|5.0|Feature wise, I give 5 stars to all the features. The camera is amazing, Call quality is so nice. Music is also nice. There's no heating problem. Battery lasts for 2 days with the data plan on.
1|5.0|Got this phone for an unbelievable offer price of just 8500(including the hdfc cash back)! Thanks amazon for the deal... :) I'm loving everything about this phone... Just go for it!
1|4.0|The price was reduced by 3000 just a few days aftyer i bought this. Product is good. One draw back, the incoming bells are not loud enough, and the voice received is audible to the bystanders.
0|4.0|Amazing phone from Xiomi. Fully satisfied with all the features and specs of phone. Bought after lot of research. Light wieght phone with great camera. UI is lot inspired by iPhone's in looks
0|4.0|Gifted this for my wife and she simply loves it. Pros: Absolutely amazing 13MP Camera Big screen size Sleek design Cons: No extensible memory support
0|1.0|Within month Mi 4i mobile showing hanging problem.
1|1.0|I am not getting ear cod & screen guard in the box
0|5.0|Awesome phone, there is no heating issue as mentioned in most of the reviews. Camera quality is awesome. Battery backup is also unexpecedly good. One can't get a phone like this under 15000.
0|4.0|Amazon delivery is excellent.Overall the product is good. As I was using Sony Experia for a long time compartively Mi4i lack some of the functions. The enthisiasm died down after using Mi4i.
0|3.0|The item was sold to me with a promise of 10% cashback on HDFC Bank debit card. No cashback has been returned so be careful before you buy it by factoring in the cashback into price of item.
0|5.0|Nice mobile... 100% better then other branded mobiles very slim nd compact... And I like camera very much in this mob... thanks for Amazon delivered in correct time with perfect packing...
0|3.0|Phone was good but not satisfied with customer care service. whenever i need any kind of assistance from them regarding application and phone setting, executive seems more confused then me.
1|1.0|it is wastage of money if u purchased this phone
0|5.0|Nice mobile. Better is best. I am happy
0|5.0|with miui 6.7 it is very stable UI, no heating issue, with normal usage give 2 days backup. camera is also very good. only issue is if you report any bug in mi. they will not respond
0|4.0|It was delivered before delivery date. The phone was perfect and working nicely.The camera of mi 4i is superb! A must buy phone in this price. Packaging was good as always.
1|1.0|Please don't go for purchase this device in offer because they are providing defective device in offer my phone is not working after 5 days and they are not ready to replace thus device
0|2.0|Within the first month, it started troubling me. Tried for replacement but it was for only 15days and ran out of eligibility for replacement. At once it went into MUTE state completely where no sound was coming out but was able to hear using ear phones had to manage with vibrate mode for few days. Getting hung when using apps like fb and even i can't completely refuse that it doesn't have battery heating issues. Now yet another problem added to the list where occasionally i'm unable to connect to internet while the mobile data is ON, i need to reboot the device to enable this device to make internet friendly, overall an unsatisfactory experience.
1|1.0|Recd product yesterday and very happy with the product and delivery but when i m using some app today mrng mobile got hanged and restarted but still on restart mode and never start again
1|4.0|The mobile was good.But some problems are there in a mobile such as heating problem and the biggest disadvantage is no expandable memory.otherwise cameras quality, slim body,..and so on.
0|3.0|Camera ? quality is average. Only 600-700 MB RAM is available for user out of 2GB. UI is not good. Front camera is not even closer to 5MP. Else, everything is good.
0|4.0|I have ordered this phone and till now 2 months into the use the phone is working fine, it has good battery backup, good camera quality and sound as well... Happy to shop with Amazon :)
0|5.0|In one word...Awesome...... 1. Deliver of the product was on time and in good condition. 2. Mi 4i : Using it from month now and no problems faced. One of the best phone.
1|5.0|Well packed when received. Phone looks awesome for this price - reasonably sensitive touchscreen. Battery back-up is quite bad but manageable with low data use. Requires 1 charge a day.
0|5.0|Redmi mi4i is best smartphone, Its a one of the best smartphone, as compare other brand and very good performance long time battery back up, excellent camera clarity I like it
0|4.0|Over all good performance. Camera very good
0|3.0|Performance is good but the devise is heating up
1|2.0|Am not receive headset in box... I need heatset
0|1.0|I returned mi4i twice because of defective piece
0|2.0|Was delivered in time. But facing issues with the product quality. Battery isn't proper. As it is a in- built battery cannot open and see. 1% is getting charged in almost 5- 6 minutes.
1|1.0|My 4th experience WITH MI. My first with Amazon. All have been good except this one. The touch doesn't work at all. Hope amazon lives up to its name regarding replacement commitments.
1|4.0|initially it was getting a bit hot on keeping it charging . but after the update .. it is working better then ever. Its a good phone for average people ...and having all you need.
0|1.0|Mobile battery getting drain so fast compare to other mobile not meeting expectation some time it hang donot buy if you want good battery backup only positive is good camera quality.
0|5.0|Display is great, grey colour gives more premium look. Pretty slim .good battery life. Camera is best in its class. Only CON is the UI quirks while navigation.or animation delays
0|5.0|Awesome phone and awesome battery backup. Camera quality is excellent. Front and back is really nice. Please go for it. It's a better phone for this value than any other brands phone.
0|3.0|The phone is responsive. It misses an SD Card slot and does not have a replaceable battery - rest is good. The price offered by Amazon was bettered by 20% by Flipakrt a week later :-(
0|1.0|This is worst phone in battery backup .. Only 6-7 hour battery back up.. And company say it have battery backup of 67 hours..phone get heat soon even on stand by and during charging..
0|4.0|Visible noise in picture quality when flash is not turn on.There is slight heat issue even when phone is not under use.Display is awesome.Very light weight.Media output is acceptable.
1|4.0|4 star for only...for a faulty set.i receive... Otherwise company wise... A grt phone ...awesmm experience... 5 star for this phone but 4 star for amazon...
0|4.0|This is a really nice product and features are really Good. Only CON"s 1. There is no Hands Free in this Box, at this price they should provide a Good Hands free.
0|1.0|very much disappointed with the services of amazon.i received a defective product and faced many issues regarding the same.i suggest everyone to buy this product from some other site
0|5.0|good quality and amazing performance and also giving a greate battery back in a price range of 13k this the best mobile in market now a days. the looks define the brand quality.
0|5.0|Very good phone. The best part is camera clarity which is amazing. No other phone in this range will even come close to this. Images shot from 1 to 2 meters give a DSLR type clarity.
0|3.0|great phone for its prize. But the quality of material used is questionable. the Phones working perfectly fine but theres some sound coming from inside the phone whenever i move it.
0|5.0|Nice phone with the price tag. Highly recommend
0|1.0|It was useless mobile for me because it burnt and I had many trouble. Mobile was not replaced. No damage in my house was recovered . I would like to suggest not to buy from Amazon.
0|3.0|i purchased this product on sep 23 2015, and its been a month but my battery is not getting charge properly and it is taking more time to get charged. only camera quality is good.
0|2.0|My system is got corrupted automatically and now it is in idle and repair made. Heat up very early. For some of the text field there is no enter key or submit button is available.
0|4.0|Friends can anyone help me to search out where is Profile settings and how to set speed dial on Xiaomi Mi4i ? And about Review except Heating issue the phone is good ?
1|1.0|Had very bad experience with the phone. After working for 1 week it suddenly stopped charging. But I am very happy with the costumer care of Amazon, very easily returned it.
1|1.0|Providing only 10.6gb user memory out of 16gb.
0|4.0|but i didn't get the headsets for my phone :(
0|1.0|My mobile gets over heated. It is so much that my touch screen stopped working. Now they are charging to change touch screen. Although it has been less than a month after using.
0|3.0|I got mi4i today and it looks awesome and battery is perfect as I want and also camera quality was outstanding but I received a faulty charger and amazon not ready to replace it
0|3.0|Battery is getting heated, Internet settings to b checked nd adjusted else full data usage vl b consumed in a flash... Camera clarity is Exxxccceeellleeennnttt.....
0|5.0|This mobile is really good. I purchased it in discount offer that makes it unbeatable in the price range. I am happy with product and seller. Delivery also took very less time.
0|3.0|Very good product from MI...the only problem is heating problem and phone is getting strict at some times.. After updating frequently the problem is solved to some extent only.
0|2.0|Product is good looking, due to accessories missing want to replace & unable to use, and check the features, if possible pls replace the product with complete accessories & kit
0|1.0|Not worth the money. Performance of this phone is horrible, it hangs almost every time i am trying to access the browser and it needs to be restarted atleast 10-12 times a day.
0|1.0|phone is hanging frequently-sound/volume is insufficient,even speaker is on could not get much sound-disconnecting at another incoming call ..KAPBabu 9032213381
0|5.0|Very good phone at this price range, awesome display, good performance, good battery backup, good camera. What else you can demand at this price range? Consider it.
0|5.0|Excellent mobile in such price. Full value of money. This mobile is so handy. I will recommend to all my friend to buy this or gift someone. Awesome features and amazing look.
1|5.0|I am already using a Mi4. Bought this for my Mom, and it's a classic piece. Performance is not as good as Mi4. But it doesn't disappoint you in any department. Just go for it.
0|1.0|Its been only 3 months i bought the phone bt its already giving ame a lot of issues . it keeps hanging and fails to detect sim and internet . a lot of issues with the phone
0|3.0|Phone is good, but I noticed some while spots on perfectly white screen and also there is sound from phone when I shake it.I initiated return for this phone see what happens.
0|5.0|Awesome phone..in this price range.. Camera is amazing. The speaker is little bit low as compared to redmi 2 prime 4g. Overall rating will be 8 out of 10
0|5.0|Excellent camera, light weight, Excellent touch, Sight heating (not a big issue), very good battery backup but it take approx 2 hrs to full charge. Overall excellent product.
0|3.0|Getting heated otherwise superb performance and excellent camera quality Charger was not for Indian had dc output That is the only reason for me to return the phone
0|4.0|I appreciate the professional way of Amazon by providing additional product...Great job by Chat executive The phone is working fine and flawlessly after updating.
0|5.0|GREAT PRODUCT. AMAZING DESIGN AND BUILD QUALITY. GREAT DELIVERY BY AMAZON. EVERYTHING IS WORKING FINE. GREAT BATTERY LIFE, CONNECTIVITY, CAMERA. GO FOR IT WITHOUT ANY DOUBT.
0|5.0|good quality of touch & camera both, all functions are work properly,,,,,,.. in short say it have all feature of smart phone ?..... and price is reasonable
1|4.0|Phone is gud. But it heats & when v charge batter its not easily charges. So many time i have to reboot then it charged. Else everything is gud. Picture quality is very gud.
0|5.0|Good phone with 2 sims good battery life 4g compatibility. Though it gets hot some times but no problem till now. I wish I could increase its memory. OVER ALL A GOOD PHONE.
1|5.0|The phone is awesome. The heating issue is pretty much solved with the new updates. If you are looking for something grt at such bugget then this is the right phone for you
0|5.0|Excellent value for money, a second Xiaomi phone for me and I am loving both. The display is 3x better than the Mi3. Fast processing and the dual sim option comes in handy.
0|3.0|With no external sd card slot the phone memory always increases n at last u have only7.5 gb usable of storing data... Storage problem apart it is the best phone one can get
0|5.0|Gifted this phone to Papa. Very happie and very nice experience. Easy to use Thank You Amazon for this Navratri offer because got it in very low price.
1|5.0|Good features, 1)good camera 2)good video quality 3)good sound quality 4)light weight mobile,easy handle 5)not lagging ,&& not any heating problem
0|3.0|Good phone. Amazing themes n battery back jp Camera is mind blowing loving it But a bit of hanging problem. Over all performance wise good Look wise good.
0|1.0|Phone is getting hanging, no external memory, no battery backup, Charging problem, not received cash back till now. very very bad phone,,, i'm facing lot of problems.
0|2.0|Started heating after usage, battery is poor then expected, UI and design is awesome, if Xiaomi removes problem of heating and battery drain, then this phone is a must buy
0|1.0|Issue is there in this phone. When I am inserting sim card in the sim slot then the network is not coming. I tried all the possible ways with different sim but no network.
0|4.0|Best phone with best features Xiaomi has made innovation compact Only little Lagging problem is faced and heating problem which will be solved in further updates
0|3.0|I got it yesterday i read the specification on box it's only 3020mah BATTARY only. But they mentioned mi4i BATTARY will be 3120Mah. Why they cheating like that. Pls reply.
0|3.0|The phone looks slim and beautiful. It has an outstanding camera made for taking selfie. Only drawback is the mobile gets heated up very rapidly even after system update.
0|5.0|THANKS AMAZON FOR ITS PRICE 9999 FABULOUS Mi 4i Brilliant Camera 4G Speed GORILLA GLASS HEATING BUT IT NOT THE ISSUE AND MANY MORE FEATURES
1|1.0|First mobile had no charge and it ws not getting start and later post charged I came to know that flash light also nt working, in short, good offers comes with some risks
0|4.0|The phone is really good. Headphones are not part of package. Speakers volume is less compared to other phones. You will get it for 9999 at f**pka*t
0|3.0|Camera quality is excellent even iphone cant give that quality.Everything is good expect the phone is always getting restarted and suddenly battery gets critically low.
0|4.0|4 star as i can't able to retrieve 100 % of my contact list from old android phone. Ringer is not loud enough. photo quality, voice quality & battery life is excellant.
0|5.0|Awesome phone. Has all the features you would expect in a phone priced about 1.5 times the price at which this phone is available. Highly recommended for others to buy.
0|5.0|Update MIUI after receiving your phone and no heating problem at all. This is the best smartphone at this price. Camera is even better then those with 20-30k price tag.
1|1.0|I already sold that mobile to half price bcoz it has lot of hanging problems and I didn't like some options like keyboard, log etc. Please don't buy this mobile..
0|5.0|A great value for money product. Great display, voice clarity, multitasking ability and very sleek. Makes me feel many MNCs are selling us greatly overpriced products.
0|5.0|best phone under 10k....battery backup is good,camera good, display excellent,no heating issue.overall product is very good got the delivery on the 2nd day itself
1|1.0|Front cam is not working now, also primary cam quality had gone down. After 2 weeks of purchase facing the problem , 50 % of storage is already consumed by phone apps.
0|4.0|I use this Mobile back five months ! I can't feel's any problems except extended memory ? Best in at price ranges ! Any other brand can give that at this range?
1|4.0|For the price range, decent and stable phone. The memory and processor are appropriately functional. The GUI is not stock, and while decent can be a turn off for some.
1|5.0|Amazing phone! Awesome secondary camera. Doesn't heat up (I'm not a gamer). Stylish. Primary camera isn't that good. However, overall, it is very good for its price.
0|4.0|Poor's flagship product. 1GB more RAM and More internal ROM would be fantastic even with 2K more. But it is having fair things required in latest phone's expectations.
1|4.0|The phone is good but need to handle very carefully. I dropped this once and screen got damaged. I replaced it from my own but good product in this price bracket
1|1.0|Phone is best by performance star but It is heating like anything. You can make omelet on it is badly heating you cant even put in your pocket & cant put on your ear.
0|4.0|I purchased this phone in 9000 totally worth buying at this price. Display- ***** Camera- **** speed- *** design- **** software- ****
0|3.0|You can not delete multiple contacts simultaneously - its painful. You can not configure multiple gmail accounts simultaneously yet ensuring separate inboxes....
0|5.0|Worth More than 13000 rs Pros Sharp Display with high resolution. Visible under under bright light Great camera with handy/needful feature Overall phone build quality Sound Quality Amazed by the MIUI (You will love it :) ) Battery life also good cons Though 2GB RAM is provided while using it always diplays 1 GB RAM avilable for other application . though that doesn't impact other application performance I have read/saw some video regarding MI 4i heating issue that doesnt really exists. After intial MIUI update it doesnt exists
0|5.0|Its awesome phone really like camera clearity processing speed screen clearity battery backup i like this phone very much i am fully satisfied so please guys buy it.
0|4.0|light weight, cool , good camara and battery.. apps are good to work.. battery is not removable nor a memory card insertable.. u hv to be linited with 16 GB in built
0|4.0|Camera very nice Screen smooth Lot of good feature Little heating problem Expandale memory should have been provided Overall happy to own it
0|3.0|slow camera change from front to rear. Some application takes time to open. Some time it feels that its unresponsive. Being 2GB ram its not that much fast.
1|5.0|amazing cell phone... bought it despite my concerns regarding its servicing (if needed)... got more than i wanted... The only issue is it heats up while charging....
0|3.0|I found phone get heating somuch while charging and connected to 3G..other than this its worth for money. If xaomi can find solution for heating will be better
0|1.0|Koriyan phone now Bed item Frod
1|5.0|A great smartphone for a low budget and normal usage including like 60% for internet 20% for gaming 5% for music 5% calling remainig 10% for as personal choice..!!
0|4.0|Good looking, smooth smartphone with a gorgeous display & a good battery backup. MIUI is good. An alternative to Moto G3 if you don't care much about stock android.
0|3.0|In Product information & warranty sheet it is mentioned that ear phone warranty 6 months & on power bank it is also 6 months but both items are not received by us.
0|3.0|Overall phone performance is seems good but Speaker sound is less than expected. Either it is required to keep a high pitch song etc. otherwise it is less audoble.
0|1.0|Mi4i don't meet my expectations ..... In only six days it's front camera got damaged..... N I am not able to contact any one because I don't know where to contact
0|1.0|WORSE PRODUCT, WHEN WE USE 3G INTERNET CONNECTION, ITS MAKE RED HOT CONDITION , WE CAN'T MAKE CALL THORUGH EAR, BETTER TO MAKE A PACKAGE TO BUY BLUETOOTH HEADSET.
0|4.0|Nice phone at this price,camera,music ,screen,touch all is just awesome Small heating problem but negligible Overall nice phone Happy to have it.?
0|5.0|Its Good Techie phone.. I got it what I expect from it..... UI is fantastic and works smoothly.....Top of everything -- service from Amazon is always Amazing.....
0|1.0|Looks extremely cheap. Avoid MI products.
1|4.0|Good phone in that bugget .. But it lags and hangs when connecting a new WiFi band .. Otherwise no problem Camera quality is good as per expectation ..
0|1.0|REALLY REALLY BAD PERFORMANCE. I HAVE BEEN USING FOR 1 MONTH. APPS ARE DEAD SLOW AND HANGING ALWAYS. MONEY WASTE. BETTER YOU GOR FOR MOTO G FOR THE SAME PRIZE. AND THIS PHONE CAN BE USED AS AN IRON BOX TOO BECAUSE OF ITS HEAT.
0|4.0|Very good product and value for money. Battery lasts great. And display and brightness of screen is brilliant. Only wish there was a memory card slot.
0|3.0|Light weight, and user friendly buttons. But the Battery life is not superb and drains off by afternoon and Battery cannot be changed also, which is a drawback.
0|5.0|Bought this phone after a lot of convincing from friends and family. I totally love it. Amazing camera. Brilliant features. An awesome phone for its price.
1|2.0|Its rebooting very frequently on a daily basis , little heating while using continuously . ITS SAR value is greater than other phones line Samsung and Micromax
0|5.0|Got this beautiful phone for a price of 8500 only.. Awesome deal and prompt delivery by Amazon... Working good so far.. No heating issue.. Long battery life...
0|3.0|I enjoy having Mi 4i. It is a nice and decent phone at this price. Well overall I am happy with the phone but I have some serious issue regarding overheating of phone as per my normal usage. It heats like electric iron sometimes. It have some great features but some of them troubles me. So 3/5 is my rating. 1 star I've taken due to overheating and other star for some complex features which possibly can be less hectic.
1|5.0|Overall delivery was quite good Packing was OK Product is good, issue is less storage space , only internal memory and no option for external memory
0|5.0|This phone was really an excellent choice.. I loved it.. But I have booked the mobile in cash back offer but I didn't get the money.. Amazon have cheated me..
0|3.0|Phone is good... But after a month the phone's speakers volume suddenly decreased.. Now hardly able to listen to the calls I recieve or a music I listen to...
0|3.0|EVERYTHING PERFECT BUT AFTER 03 DAYS USING WHILE AFTER CHARGING THE PHONE GET STRUCK AND NOT STARTED .WITH NON REMOVABLE BATTERY U HAVE NO CHANCE OF RESTART
0|3.0|Battery backup is less Sound quality is great Heating issue present Photos are good quality by camera I would prefer to buy for 9000 only
0|3.0|No hands free, no user manual. Its strange no other mobile in past I purchased without these two. Actual memory they mentioned is 16G but usable is only 11.9
0|3.0|It is working fyn for me..camera quality is good ...i find only 1 problem..i.e. sometimes calls does not het disconnected even after pressing call end button
1|4.0|Mi phone is very good but there is some issues Of back key is not that good some time hanged Also company is nt provided earplugs Rest is good
0|5.0|Superb, outstanding, phone with excellence no comparison with other phones of the same segment enjoying Rs. 50000 feature in Rs. 8239 bought on Amazon sale.
0|2.0|As soon i got the cell the mic r watever was in a bad condition, that was not at all hearing for the one who called me, which was inturn iriitating me a lot
1|4.0|Good for this price point Good build quality, Good display, Good performance Camera is just an average, MiUI has some issues, Slightly overheating
0|5.0|Mi4i is a cool handset supports a quick change in itself. The way they designed the product is amazing. Thanks to Amazon for wonderful piece of handset.
0|5.0|Good mobile.... Real feels premium and fast delivery by Amazon .....even better than flipkart .....and thanks to Amazon to provide this in a best deal ....
0|4.0|Heats up a bit other than that the phone is awesome. So light so definitely needs a case to put on some weight. Excellent camera clarity and good speakers.
1|1.0|Very good Phone with poor battery life.
1|5.0|Compare to other phone like fast open some file ,transfer file and every thing like OK. but some heating problem and services related issue in Ahmadabad .
0|5.0|Excellent product. Great value of money. After 1 month of use, No problem so far. Working like a charm. Highly recommend mobile phone
0|1.0|mobile looking good, when is used internet or gaming 5 to 10 mints the mobile is heat produced highly mi is worest products is relesed it not good product
0|5.0|Superb logistics setup. I orderee on 14th noon and got delivery on 16th. Standard contents were of the pack was found. However not so ? with camera & OS
0|1.0|I have purchase the phone and it started to get hang and battery is draining bad. When I approach to Amazon they said we cannot do anything regarding it.
0|4.0|Great product good screen, feather touch, very thin, low waight. Problem is heating. Amazon also given excellent service. Great amazon....
0|3.0|I got this phone on Wednesday. Phone feature and performance is okey but their is one big problem that phone is got heat only after use of half an hour.
0|5.0|Excellent phone.. Bought this in megasale with 15% cashbook.... The heating issue easily resolved by updating phone.. Awesome phone in less than 9k bucks
0|1.0|This phonr is not working. It is not going to switch on. I have already ordered for replacement but no body came to pick it. really disappointed. .
0|5.0|Great Product! Amazign camera. I bought this for my wife since I have Samsung Note II. My next phone will definitely be from the same company.
0|5.0|Excellent product , awesome delivery services , no lag in phone , nice camera , with slow mo , display is HD superb product except no headphones in box
0|1.0|The phone i got is not even switching on. I put the phone on charging but after 1 hour of charging the phone still not switching on. very disappointed
0|4.0|the phone is really worth it for the cost..pictures are suberb and overall performance is amazing. however only drawback is lack of extendable memory..
0|5.0|At this price the is best from other mobile. Camera quality is brilliant. Battery backup is also very good. Overall MI is the best phone at this price
0|1.0|Àmazon delivered it in one day even during festival season.but the mobile started hanging in two weeks time and I am unable to return the mobile also
1|2.0|Need to recharge daily when just gmail and 20 mins installed games played if i would have known this then definitely did not upgrade from MOTO E
0|1.0|The product is worst.my display is not functioning properly.please never take this product.amazon is also not giving me a replacement of the product.
0|5.0|Writing review after 15 days of use No heating after miui7 update Perfomance is very good Crispy display Sometym lags a little bit but not noticiable Camera is not too good in low light condition Bt in day its camera is too good Gaming is smooth played modern combat5 Asphalt 8 runs smoothly
0|3.0|Let me be very clear, I am a sony user & I was so confused to buy MI 4I & at last decided to go for it. I liked its features and Display quality of this phone. Performance is quite good but do lags while playing games like subway n all The major cons: Heating issue which will never be solved No expandable memory Trust me both camera quality is not up to the mark Can't trust sensors, it can stop working at any point of time.
0|3.0|overheat issues on very limited usage
0|3.0|Audio is total not working, Ring sound with decreasing node. after few seconds totally not audible.How rectify the problem, who to contact pl advise
0|3.0|I can't use this product.becoz the mobile automatically restarted immediately and continued when I connect mobile data.please give ur contact number
0|5.0|Highly recommended..... Best company in this prize range. All features are awesome works well in every respect. Camera is really awesome. Go for it.
1|4.0|The product is good..1star is deducted as the seal of the pack was opened at the time of delivery. I also complaint about it but no action is taken.
0|5.0|The phone is very stylish and weight is also low and the performance is High......feeling hpy because i bought it for Rs.9999, Thank you amazon
0|4.0|Mi4i a stylish handset with klassic camera &good features,downoad videos G Nice HD view only concern remain as phone memory is not expandable
0|4.0|Amazon delivered in the next day and I'm very happy with the features of the phone. Only drawback iIcan say is speaker volume is not upto the mark
1|2.0|Mi 4i which I brought is issue of over heating on very first day and as well got hanged ones.so could you please help me to get resolve this issue.
1|4.0|I hv got my Mi4i on time. I am satisfied with camera and appearance.but There is no headset along with phone and we can't use external memory.
0|4.0|Great phone. Very light phone as compared to my previous Nexus 4 and many others. This is a good deal for one of the best smartphone in the market
1|1.0|Worst dream ever....... Dammn its buttons are not working properly , its only one week of use....... Not recommended to even my enemies.
1|4.0|Good phone at ds price. Lots of features, good touch response, no heating problem at all but one drawback dat it doesn't ve expandable memory
0|5.0|Always great !! bought for several people @ several times from amazon and flipkart..! every piece was perfectly cool and no problems till date..!!
0|2.0|Good looks good camera but it starts heating up while playing a game or watching a video also sometimes gets hang up not exactly what I expected .
0|1.0|Phone has lots of problems like Call drops, battery issues from the 2nd week and Amazon has stopped its replacement. Pathetic service from amazon
0|5.0|Love this phone Amazing Specs With Crisp Camera Clarity Battery last about a day Bought it in 9999 Cant get better than that
0|3.0|Its torch light stopped working after few days and speed of the mobile is not upto the mark as 2 GB RAM can do that but looks good featured phone
0|3.0|I received my phone in time, phone is very good but my charger is not charging it doesnot charge .charger found faulty please replace my charger.
0|4.0|Great product...works well. Good VFM
0|4.0|This is an amazing product with excellent pricing. Good to go with it unless you are too much concern about overheating of phone while charging.
0|2.0|Had issue with speaker quality and not playing HD video without hanging, doubt the product I received was not duplicate.Have returned it anyway.
0|4.0|Very nice performance .have to handle it more sensitively . qualities are good,sensor near by camera creates problem under normal circumstances.
0|2.0|it is not working smoothly, some time its touch screen is showing unresponsiveness. the picture quality by camera is on good in night/low light.
0|1.0|I got a different item speakers not working battery heating in 5 minutes and my phone switch off and on in every 20 min automatically..and today the screen got blurred have asked for replacement but Amazon guy said they can't do it now if I have to buy.. I need to but in new price.. Pathetic service Amazon.. Not happy
0|3.0|It is a gd phone but it gets heated when i use this phone for an 30 min And in low light camera doesnt work get imeage is nt at that sharp
0|4.0|The build quality is superb. Camera is amazing. Its just a month i am not sure about the performance so that one start has been kept pending :)
0|4.0|VFM product at Rs.9999. Don't buy if you need storage for music and video's. Heating issue is still there. Hope miui 7 will resolve this issue.
1|1.0|My Dear Amazon it was not expected from you .I am Fed up by this product ,not working properly. Settings not working. I need your support.
0|1.0|Bad phone. Looked fine,slim and all. But heats up badly upon 10 mins of moderate usage. Very bad network receptivity. Not as good as it sounds.
0|5.0|Amazon is the best place to shop for. Got the product earlier than expected.Mi4i is best phone in the market with great features at low price..
1|4.0|Happy with the buy..Pretty neat phone for 10k.. No heating issues as I read on a few reviews which I was a lil worried abt before buyin..
0|5.0|It's an awesome phone. An thanks to Amazon I got it for 10k. The only issue with the phone has no expandable memory and slight heating issues.
0|5.0|Worth the price. Every feature is very well crafted. Camera is best among below 20k phones. Audio recording is nice. Magic of miui. Worth buy.
0|5.0|:-) gr8 product at gr8 price..
0|3.0|To much heating while on browsing and even on calls. I wouldn, t able to speak 3 to 5 minutes getting heat. i would n, t keep phone in ears.
0|2.0|Phone is ok for 9999 but it lags while typing on keypad...processor takes too much time.. can't cope up with human speed...quite disappointed
0|5.0|I got addicted to Mi brand and this phone is way more than what I expected and amzon delivered it 3 days before their promised time thank you
0|3.0|looking at market it seems this product should be rated around 10k only. as Moto X Play 21k device gives lots of functionality than this one.
0|4.0|this mobile is good...but in my mi4i every application mostly facebook hang sometime....and this mobile heat quickly....otherwise it is best
0|4.0|It is a very good phone no leg problem multitask ing supap great cemera quality touch response very smooth everything is OK I love my Mi 4i
0|4.0|This is a wonderful phone at decent price. Only flip side is you don't get suitable accessories in open market. The looks are simply great
0|5.0|Excellent phone Absolutely no problem in any segment, whether in heating or memory as hyped earlier. Best buy in this price range
0|4.0|Mi 4i (16GB, White) is a good mobile. Features are excellent. A little heat problem while using internet. But other features are excellent.
0|5.0|It's amazing feeling to open the box. the only thing which i don't like is COD is too Late :P but the Mi4i awesome look and feel.
0|1.0|Heating very quick and frequent...
0|5.0|Made even more sweet, by the 'Diwali' special price. Thank you Amazon! I am amazed! Great phone; very sleek and handy. Superb performance.
0|5.0|Excellent product of Xiaomi. Smooth operation. No heating problem after software upgrade. Real value for money. It was a steal at Rs.9999.
1|2.0|Boggas Phone, as it gets hanged some time, sometimes it get auto switch off. Not matching to my expectation and not recommended to others.
0|5.0|Excellent set with all latest features on such an affordable, picture quality is very good. Compatible with most of the required software.
0|4.0|Performance was good, Camera clarity very clear, who follows Lumia Windows phone don't use this because you can't get enough satisfaction
0|4.0|Awesome phone in all aspects except one problem phone gets automatically cut after while. this happens to me after recent miui upgrade.
0|4.0|The only issue here is the phone heats up at lot. Otherwise a good phone from the Xiaomi stable. Quick and reliable. Superb battery life.
0|1.0|Worst Phone. I have taken before 15 days and it started giving problem. Now its speaker phone stop working. Really hate this product.....
0|5.0|Over all performance is good but when I know the body of phone something sounds inside. It looks like some nut boll is not fit perfectly.
0|5.0|Nice phone within budget with awesome configurations. Battery is good and heating is similar to other smartphones. I would say Go For It.
1|1.0|Product is not good because Internet is not working properly and I can't return also all cheating in Amazon be don't purchase in this app
0|1.0|Received very late by amazone. I used this ph for 2 weeks, Getting too much hot, camera pic quality is also not upto marking level.
0|3.0|Whenever I open front camera of my Mi4i random pixels starts appearing on camera. and unable to take picture or video with front camera.
0|3.0|Get heated while using. Battery don't last long. Camera is of 13 MP but pic quality is average. Would recommend to go for better brands.
1|4.0|Good mobile value for money. But out speaker voice is very low and face book app some time close automatically. Rather then good product
0|4.0|cool.....but heats.......stable and smooth performance.....heats at multitasking......for not so regular users.....just a smartphone....
1|2.0|Nt as expected performance dull. Especially battery life can't even sustain for a day. Arnd evening need to charge again. Disappointed.
0|5.0|I liked Mi4i as it met my expectations of good battery backup, quality picture with excellent processing speed that too without hanging.
0|4.0|Slight heating issue when so many apps r open.otherwise. awesome handset in this price range,if u got SME more money defntly go for mi4.
0|5.0|Very good phone at the price it is offered. Light weight, very good battery life. Initial trouble of setting 4g now works like a charm.
0|2.0|still persist heating problem.the mobile get quickly heated during function.no solution was provided even by MI customer care executive
0|5.0|You will Get Same Phone on Flipkart for 9999/- only & if u have Standerd Charted bank Debit or Credi Card u will get 10% more disscount
1|1.0|After 10 days of delivery camera is not working in this phone and also it is getting hanged though opened only one or two applications.
0|5.0|Very good phone. Looking cute,great performance,Display & Camera (Both). Slight heating issues on net continues using. Otherwise best.
0|1.0|The handset is not functioning properly. No one from amazon and xiaomi is responding to the complaint. Poor service and worst product.
0|3.0|Product looks good. But when I received headset was missing in the box. So be careful and open the parcel check as soon as you receive
1|4.0|Brilliant, its m(y) iphone. Just go for it.. I have been an iphone user for 4 years.. Started using this for a while. Its really good.
0|4.0|Its brilliant. Advantage- High resolution i.e 441 PPI, FHD, Battary Back up, Good Processor Disadvantage-Non-removable battary, display size only 5'', non expandable memory. heating issue.
0|5.0|No issues at all. Highly impressed by its features..in reasonble amount..most recommended. Amazon is best in delivery and packaging.
0|4.0|Highly recommended mobile in this range. Pros : 2GB RAM, Full HD screen, dual sim and Mi OS Cons : not extendable memory ..
0|5.0|Dont think, just go for it, it satisfies every need, good speed, great display and i am sure things will get much better after MIUI 7
0|4.0|Quite nice best phone in the range. Gets a bit slow sometimes available ram is only around 1GB/2GB and storage is around 9.5 GB free.
0|4.0|I have ordered one for my sister. its a good phone and meet my expectations. but What had happened...? why do u change the price....?
0|4.0|Everything looks perfect from price to design. Yupp! It doesn't support SD card coz manufacturer's wants chipset to run smooth.
0|1.0|Complete waste of money .... Got a mobile which hangs every second day and we have to give hard reset for rebooting device
0|5.0|It is lighter than Mi4 and back cover finishing is better than Mi4. It is lighter also and dual sim. And works good.
0|1.0|Received product on 18 oct. yesterday, almost after 24 hours suddenly, it stopped detecting sim in both slots..... really fed up!!!
1|5.0|What's the meaning of refurbished here? Actually the price of refurbished ones and the others are same..so any difference here?
0|4.0|Good phone in this range with good camera quality, nice battery backup, Less heating issue. Good Display. As of now worth buy
0|4.0|Excellent mobile, very light weight and handy. I was happy with this mobile. Only issue was mobile is getting heat while charging.
0|5.0|nice product the miu theme is fluent to the device it has a powerful processor and nice resolution i recommend to buy this device.
0|4.0|Really good product only problem to reset internet settings reqirements some uneasy please make it some kind of more user friendly
1|1.0|bad service provide by mi and battery dead in six month and service center not provided services. please not purchase mi4i mobile.
1|4.0|Phone received with safe packaging. Phone is working completely fine. The camera is very good. Its an awesome phone in 9000 range.
0|5.0|I love this. Product at this price this is best because it has 2gb ram and has great camera quality front amd back camera is best
0|4.0|Decent phone specially considering the offer price of 10k. Minimal Heating or lag issues, smooth interface and good performance.
0|2.0|Product was sent twice as the packet was not containing all the items as described. Still, 1 earphone was missing 2nd time also.
0|5.0|Very fast service delivered in just 2 days from the time of order................thanks and keep it up ................Cheers!!!
0|5.0|superb phone in this range.. firstly i bought samsung j5.. but then find mi is much better then j5. go for it..thnx amazon.
0|4.0|product is very good and working properly. if they provide expandable memory it was excellent. Thanks to Amazon for great deal.
0|5.0|Thanks amazon,good phone for 10k price tag,camera is good and well inbuilt performance also good,if you buy 10k phone go for it
0|3.0|Expandable memory is not available.if set will become faulty memory will also lost.this is the main problem of this mobile.R.k.
0|4.0|Over all good phone for the price.. works like charm.. but slippery to hold but sure it's worth every penny spent on this phone
0|2.0|This phone has such a brilliant screen, but it is a pity that you can't make calls without some hassle. I faced difficulty in receiving and making calls. I think Xiaomi forgot to make this piece of plastic into a "phone". If you are not much into receiving and making calls, I would suggest buying this "internet browsing device".
1|1.0|Sound system got effected with in 15 days of use and also Return option is closed after 10 days of purchase.I don't prefer it.
0|4.0|I am still learning to use the various functions. What I have used is very good. There are so many things still to be explored
0|1.0|One of the worst phones that I have come across! On paper it may seem value for money and it may have great specs but even with 2 GB of ram it hangs so much that it gets you frustrated. Whats the point of having a smart phone when it hangs and doesnt even let you make a call, or when it doesnt show your contacts. I had been using a windows phone earlier and I realise that I was so much more happier using it. The apps and phone updates daily which will eventually lead to filling up of entire internal storage and since it doesnt even have a memory card slot, you wont be able to do anything. Out of the 16GB it shows only 9-10GB is available for my personal use of which also Apps will take up >2GB. Cons:- 1) Heats up 2) Battery doesnt even last a day (Barely lasts 6-7 hours) even with normal use 3) The sound quality is so so 4) The phone hangs a lot Wont recommend this phone. Its better to go for a windows phone rather than this. This was by far the worst investment I have made.
1|5.0|Excellent phone. This piece comes with the latest software update which solves the heating issues in older models. That was one apprehension that I had when I was planning to buy this phone. I do not see any heating issues either while charging or while using. Note that I haven't played any cpu heavy games yet. I did not see any lags during usage. Good battery backup (I'm mostly on wifi and still I can go without charging everyday :-)). Clear display. The best thing is it auto adjust when you are in sun or under any other bright light. Very good cameras - front and back. Clear pics. Although the clarity of front one under dim lights is not that good. Only thing which I would miss very soon is secondary storage. I guess I would need to get into the habit of either deleting or occasionally taking backups. Now about the seller, it took a while for the seller to ship the phone. When I contacted Amazon customer care, I got a response that this phone went out of stock. I will have to wait for a couple of more days before it can be shipped. That was bit annoying. But still I got the product on promised time (10 days from the date of payment).
0|2.0|heard lot about mi 4i but scared for future buying as this is cresting a lot of problem.....may be product is not authentic..
0|4.0|Very good handset having small limitations like heating problem & no accessories with the phone. Performance is really good.
0|5.0|Which is better Mi4 or Mi4i ??
0|5.0|I LOVE THAT MOB . IT HAS ALL THE FACILITY WAT I WANT, THE BAD THING IS IT DOES NOT SUPPORT ANY LOCK RELATED TOO APPLICATION.
1|4.0|Download speed is very slow even though wi-fi. Available ram around 40% only. Others like camera, display etc are very good.
0|4.0|The phone is amazing. Only drawback is no earphones with the pack and also, no SD card slot. That's quite manageable though.
0|1.0|Product not good. its getting very hot even when you talk for 10 minutes and even when you take photos its getting very hot.
0|1.0|heating problem from day 1 when switch on...what should i do..is it ok? or replace another handset..plz suggest team amazon.
0|3.0|fastest delivery I have booked 13th Oct and delivered on 14th Oct Excellent camera picture quality overall is good
0|5.0|Nice phone evrthing is gud but. In this phone miui. Updates. Not support this phone....... Setting chnges automitacilly....
0|3.0|Good one,all features of higher end phone of Samsung except expandable memory ...contacts application is not comfortable ...
0|3.0|Features are awesome. But battery drain issue was horrible. I updated miui 6.10. But it not resolve battery drain problem.
1|1.0|The phone isn't reliable. Recommend not to buy it. Used Sony for 3yrs. Far more reliable than my mi4i. The phone gets lag and has some issues with the performance. The service Centre ppl are also not replying properly. I recommend to go with standard company. The camera is awesome, that's the only thing I liked abt the phone and the speaker.
0|3.0|I just bought this new mobile and it is not supporting OTG calbe or pendrive...... Don't know how to use external memory...
0|4.0|The product is good. Battery life is very good and very light to handle. I would recommend this phone to others.
0|4.0|Got in very good condition.thnks for first courier service and phone is awsome but getting tens' after reading some reviews
0|5.0|One of the best mobile at the most reasonable price. Amazon delivered in 48hrs that too in Diwali sale. Amazing Amazon
1|1.0|Very poor phone. Crashes every time you open some site or app. Would like to return it. Waste of money. Feeling cheated...
1|4.0|The whole phone is very gud but what i saw toucpad is not worked properly. Is it happend with me only or with some others!!
0|4.0|For incoming call it shows wrong location of caller. If somebody call from gujarat it shows madhyapradesh location.
0|5.0|Great phone except memory is limited to 16 GB Only. Camera Quality is superb. Great experience by dealing with Amazon
1|4.0|Lags in day to day tasks in balanced mode. In performance mode, back part becomes hot. Plus points are display and camera.
0|1.0|I recieved the defective phone. I was waiting from one week for this phone but atlast my experience was bad with amazon.
1|1.0|Please dont buy this product from this seller. When I put loudspeaker during call, its full of echo and other noise sound.
0|1.0|Thanks to Amazon for speed delivery .But Mi product worst. 1) flash not working. 2) using 5 min. feel over heat.
0|4.0|Nice phone in good price only problem is that internet is not working with postpaid sim(i have idea).otherwise great phone
0|3.0|everything is fine but volume of the phone is bit lower. Found difficulty during phone call conversation in public areas.
1|5.0|nice deal.bt 1500 cash back is jan 17th .y dhe too late.this is not satisfaid.i payed 10000rs and waiting amount of 1500.
0|4.0|Its been more than 15 days & Mobile is working good. Recieved one charger, manual and handset, did not recieved earphones
0|4.0|Nice one...but heating issue is a biggest issue in all redmi phones.. After updated OS. Grip of the phone os not good....
0|5.0|terrific phone...stunning camera...camera is really high quality with superb shutter speed..Camera is better than Moto-X
0|3.0|MI 4I geting warm sooner while using internet during voice call and while charging too. otherwise it is good smartphone.
1|4.0|Awesome phone very thin body, processor also very fast but only sound volume is little beat low otherwise good phone
1|1.0|Defected piece!! As front camera is not working properly!! Not satisfied.. Some help will be appreciated!
0|5.0|I bought this phone from amazon....and despite all the negative comments...I have to say...this phone is really good...Has a premium finish,awesome camera,better screen than all phones available at this price and also decent battery backup...the phone do get heated...but I think that it will be solved in the future updates.
0|1.0|The phone had heating issues from day one and within 5 days the phone went into a reboot loop had to return the product
0|5.0|The mobile has very cute themes and backgrounds. it is so much fun. the camera is great. the phone is sleek. I love it.
0|4.0|Light weight and no lagging till now. Good product. Sometimes there are heating issues. After reboot it works normally
0|5.0|At 9999 its the best phone I can get. One suggestion though, do not go for any back cover, just feel the phone directly
0|5.0|very good product.front cam is awesome !!!!!! battery back up is good!! Excellent timely delivery by amazon..
0|4.0|Bought the phone and happy with it till now. Though not very satisfied with Mi UI. Will update again after some months.
0|5.0|Excellent it gives very good performance also battery holding long period time I am happy with Mi 4i (16GB, Grey)
0|4.0|Very good cell phone in the range of 13k....Camera is simply superb..simply loved this cellphone..Thanx Xiaomi & Amazon
1|1.0|This mobile is totally use less,only one month display error.......so please do not provide this items to other person.
0|5.0|Best phone i ever seen.There was some heating issue because of the processor used in this but now after the update there is no heating issue.The camera of this phone is best or u can tell that no other phone in this range has a good camera than mi4i.So,i prefer this phone to all of you who wanted a new phone under 15k.
1|1.0|Excellent.... User friendly.... Light weight... Affordable.....Price.. Beautiful colours....
0|1.0|Poor quality of screen. It broke while it was in pocket. Total waste of money. Go for mobiles with good glass quality.
0|2.0|Good phone but sim slot get problem in or out..we can't bring out without its pin mostly when I need to call that time
0|5.0|The product is good in simple words. Thanks to amazon for the good discount. Regards Sandeep Das
1|2.0|Touch is. Not. Working properly ,i have downloaded mx player but it is not supporting.....completly wastage of money
0|4.0|Kindly remove d scratch guard then its working fine really super but memory capacity is not enough need SD card slot.
1|2.0|while minimize the icon ,mobile display vibrate,also internet speed is more problem, please return my mobile.thank you
0|1.0|More heating issue is there.
0|5.0|It is good phone and I found no issues as of now in software or hardware since I had purchased this mid September,'15
0|3.0|Charger is not working. No more durable battery backup. No any option of replacement after ten days even charge also
1|1.0|Hitting problem at the time of long discussion. Specifically at the time of charging you can not use this mobile
0|5.0|mi4i, that I bought very good.. its price has been slashed more over.. battery and performance both good...
1|5.0|Gud phone. Ppl suggested not to buy MI phones as its China phone. But trusted amazon n bought phone it's working f9..
0|3.0|Mi4i getting more heat while charging . and using .. But I return the product. I got money back thank u for amazon
0|5.0|I got a great deal...n I'm happy with the phone.. I think there are already tons of reviews about this phone...
0|4.0|Good phone. Nice camera. Customized so you get a different experience from android. Overall great buy for the price.
0|4.0|The phone e is good and I am happy with this phone at that price range one thing that Amazon delivery is very good.
0|5.0|Bought the phone on sale in amazon. The phone itself is great for the price. U will love the phone with the mi band.
0|3.0|The phone is very good. Only draw back is no memory card slot and phone heats up. Amazon has best offers on phones.
0|5.0|Phone working fine, Camera is very good, only issue with memory card can not be attached and phone can not be open.
0|3.0|Handset has heating problem. It would be the best if it has expandable memory. Battery takes so much time to charge
0|3.0|battery is ok. good built. but amazons package is so bad. heating issues are still there even with updated versions
1|4.0|Phone is good..light weight.. slim trendy..goodbspeed... wifi speed is good..but facing internet sped in 3g network
0|3.0|Specification is good and worth for money, but heating is the main problem. When camera is on, mobiles heats a lot.
0|5.0|Yester day I have received Mi 4i. It is beautiful. I have immediately upgraded OS. Until now, I am extremely happy.
1|5.0|Amazing Phone with the best looks in this class. With the updates we can solve heating problem. Go-ahead pick this.
0|4.0|This is my first Mi phone. It is really amazing. Heating is little issue. Camera is superb. Good phone from mi....
0|5.0|Great buy for the price....very satisfied with the product....looking forward to such deals in upcoming mega sale!
0|5.0|Neat phone......... Worth the price... Bigger brands will give you half the specifications at this price
0|1.0|Within 20 days the Screen cracked when it fell on a carpet floor from a distance of only 50cms. Bad Quality Screen
0|3.0|Even After an update it lags so much..better to wait for some time and pick mi4c with 3gb ram and 32 GB internal..
0|5.0|Best phone ....features performance camera quality faster..... I love MI 4i phone....... Great phone....
1|5.0|Very good product, I am not a excessive user of phone, my battery gives me two days back up, very light weight
0|5.0|1.After having a lot of market survey, I planned to buy Mi4i 2. Very good phone for this price. 3. Battery Life - 9/10 4. Cameras - 9/10 5. CPU - 9/10 (Octa core / Snapdragon 1.7 Ghz) 6. ROM / RAM - 7 / 10 (16 GB - of which OS eats up 6 GB and 2GB RAM of which 1.2 GB is used by the OS) 7. User Interface - 8 / 10 8. Look and Feel of the phone (10 / 10) - Slim, Very light 9. Support for 4G - 8 / 10 Only on Sim will be supported at a time, though both the slots can contain 4g Sim 10. No Support for SD Card - 0/10 (we can supplement this feature with external pendrive) 11. Audio Quality - 10 / 10 - Sound Reproduction is Simply superb. 12. Video - 10 / 10 - Supports full HD and DTS output Overall, Great product from Xiaomi.
0|2.0|This phone doesn't have a memory card slot. You can't do away with 16GB memory in a pictorial / video world.
0|1.0|The wifi doesn't connect.. The amount of hassle to setup a static connection for just one connection is horrible.
1|1.0|I have purchased mi 4i through amazon. But charger is defective. I didnt got service from amazon for replacement.
1|4.0|Arrived on time, really a very good mobile but very rare case it may feel you bit slow. But overall product is ok
0|3.0|Battery backup not good. While talking a little bit long it gets heated. Some time hangs.so not a good experience
0|4.0|Phone is awsome. If the main speaker was good i would have given 5 stars. Still good buy at this price(Rs 12999).
1|1.0|Dear all friends not buy redmi any mobile phone because i am purcahse redmi 2 and mi4i during using problem is data connection not spported' during wi fi network ok but data network not spported, i am replace 2/2 mobile on flipkart' This is hardware problem. Bijender sharma 9650693030
1|4.0|it is value for money only at 8500 rupees.must update it to solve some problems like heating, battery backup....
1|2.0|Getting issues in app as they are not working with mobile network. All apps r working fine with wifi connection.
0|5.0|Amazing Smartphone. Display is crisp and touch is just awesome. Can't get better smartphone in this price range.
0|2.0|Mobile is getting warm from back and front side within 10-15 min of usage (Game and Internet). Not recommended ,
1|5.0|Fast delivery. I owned a MI4i before but this one is not having heating problems as previous one.excellent phone
0|3.0|Calling UI hanged various time. Sometime need to restart mobile because of no UI. There is some problem with UI.
0|5.0|Super mobile no compliants... Design is super and outstanding outlook... No words to describe... No drawbacks...
0|1.0|Restating from day first and after getting full of furstate was hit this s*** phone on floor goodby Mi.........
0|3.0|its good but sometime 3g netowrk network creat some prob. and most important thing is memory is not expandable.
1|4.0|Phone features are really good and worth buying it. It heats up when you play games or browsing for long hours.
0|5.0|Awesome phone with amazing camera clarity. Worth the cost... Picture quality better than iphone 6 or Samsung S5
0|5.0|Phone purchased during vijayadasami offer, very satisfied, good features, excellent camera s, every thing good
0|3.0|Features are good but some times it is not responding properly. Sometimes it shows apps are not responding.
0|1.0|the mobile camera save picture upside down,not auto rotate...i returned but till now money not refunded,,,worst
0|4.0|Just 1 star less because of unavailability of memory card slot , apart from that my rating says it all for MI .
0|4.0|i dont like its speakers...nothing great, similar to my old lumia 720...one good thimg is 2gb ram n nice camera
0|1.0|This product has a problem with front camera.All the photos are captured in a mirror image...need a replacement
1|2.0|It's heating while using for more than 10 min. Facebook app gets hang while scrolling down. Remaining all good.
0|3.0|the battery mentioned in the product specification is 3120mah but the product delivered to me is having 3030mah
1|4.0|its looking good , by performance wise is not good. It is getting heat when i use the video player and camera.
0|3.0|It's OK,and iam not able to get correct screen guard for this phone. Which are available doesn't fit properly.
1|1.0|Phone ki performance bad hai mainai to vapis bheja hai per mere paisai refund nahe kar rahai aaj 6days ho gaye
1|5.0|It is worth every bit of money it costs you.great camera but heats up a bit when running high end applications
0|5.0|Super amazing phone. Though I have faced issues in receiving the product due to shipping/ delivery team issue.
0|5.0|Best phone in camera,clarity,design and battery backup.but no memory card slot availability. But u can buy it.
0|5.0|very good phone, i am fully satisfied. If expandable memory is also supported then It can be given 5.5 stars.
0|3.0|Best for those looking something different OK for daily use but not for gamer does heat up while gamming
0|5.0|I love this product...its awesome mb in this price range..really good...its gives me apple i-phone feeling...
1|1.0|Hi...now started using phone...battery tamprature is too high 38 deg... Is this product deficit plz... Reply.
0|5.0|during great diwali sell 2015 , this phone was available at Rs. 8500 is truly game changer to mobile industry
0|4.0|Excellent product, with great features.. One and only minus point is "No expandable Memory cad slot"
0|2.0|i baught it in august and now (nov )its mic is not working, i dont have a service centre in meerut too
1|5.0|Completely satisfied with mobile and service of Amazon. The replacement service of Amazon is up to the mark.
0|1.0|I bought it on 22oct and I am facing a problem in d product. Whenever I open settings it hangs. I donno why.
0|4.0|i LIKE THIS PHONE MORE AS I GOT IT IN AMAZON DIWALI SALE...BEST PRICE EVER AND EVEN BETTER THAN MY FRIENDS..
0|4.0|Device is nice, speed us good, only issue I face as sometimes the UI is freezing or hanging, camera us nice.
0|5.0|Three months of use. good one and worth for money. Only negative 16GB restricted memory can not be expanded.
0|4.0|3x4 keyboard is not available in english. This is the only drawback about this phone. Otherwise its awesome.
1|1.0|it is hanging and touch is not good in one month I want to change it, don't choose any one and don't buy it
0|5.0|during great diwali sell 2015 , this phone was available at Rs. 8500 is truly game changer to mobile industry
0|4.0|Excellent product, with great features.. One and only minus point is "No expandable Memory cad slot"
0|2.0|i baught it in august and now (nov )its mic is not working, i dont have a service centre in meerut too
1|5.0|Completely satisfied with mobile and service of Amazon. The replacement service of Amazon is up to the mark.
0|1.0|I bought it on 22oct and I am facing a problem in d product. Whenever I open settings it hangs. I donno why.
0|4.0|i LIKE THIS PHONE MORE AS I GOT IT IN AMAZON DIWALI SALE...BEST PRICE EVER AND EVEN BETTER THAN MY FRIENDS..
0|4.0|Device is nice, speed us good, only issue I face as sometimes the UI is freezing or hanging, camera us nice.
0|5.0|Three months of use. good one and worth for money. Only negative 16GB restricted memory can not be expanded.
0|4.0|3x4 keyboard is not available in english. This is the only drawback about this phone. Otherwise its awesome.
1|1.0|it is hanging and touch is not good in one month I want to change it, don't choose any one and don't buy it
0|5.0|Great value for money ! Excellent phone ... ! Camera is ultimate! Everything is good !
0|2.0|The phone is very good for its price point but mobile Internet does not work well. And that is a very irritating concern. I thought it might be a problem with the sim, but I used the same 3G sim on my old phone as well as some other phones, and I have not faced a problem.
0|4.0|Very good product in the range of 13000. Front cam is also very good. There is little heating problem.
0|5.0|Great build quality. No heating issues with latest miui 7.0.3. Fast processing. I suggest you buy bliendly.
0|5.0|Nice phone but I am facing some problems my call drops in every 1-2 minutes What should I do?
0|5.0|Before time delivery during time of high demand is highly appreciated. Product is amazing as expected.
1|1.0|During ordering part, it shows order is includ headset, dut headset is not delevered, pl.. Send the headset
0|5.0|After usage of 20 days don't find any heating issue.. Battery back up is awesome. Loving mi 4i...
1|1.0|The phone suddenly stops detecting sim. For numbers not fed in the phone it doesn't ring when a call comes.
0|3.0|Everything is fine except the heating problem. The fine heats quickly while watching videos or downloading.
0|3.0|Pros: Looks good, Light weight, Good camera, Cons: Battery sucks, only 800 mb ram free anytime at max.
0|4.0|one of the best in its stream - had to get the best phone for my bro and it took 15 mins to go for this one
0|4.0|Light Weight good Clarity
0|3.0|Atul surface coatings Industrial and decorative epoxy floorings design and painting. 9428026846
0|4.0|Excellent product. Good camera, powerful battery and sharp display make the product unique in its segment.
0|4.0|Nice phone in cheap price.. But Heating problem solved after updating os.. You need to update must..!
0|2.0|Camera quality not good I purchased for camera Only in offer given camer quality good I think and buy
0|3.0|Phone is awesome for someone who doesn't need 32gb but disappointed with camera yuphoria had better camera
0|4.0|Great phone. Amazing camera. A little problem with typing when charging. Rest all, a great deal.
0|5.0|Bindaas bina soche lelo... Got more than I expected.. More than a month no problem awesome phone
0|4.0|observed some heat issue on receiving the phone. after upgrading the patch didn't observed the heat issue.
0|5.0|Mi4i - The Market Killer in the below 15000 segment. Okay, I have been using this mighty beast for over a month now. This phone has the best display in its segment, 1080 p at 441 ppi, the videos actually function better than my HP probook which has a 1080 p display at 390+ ppi. its 2 gb ram functions perfectly and I play asphalt 8, sniper 2, nba jam regularly for about an hour or so...don't read reviews about heat generation, post lxi6.5.6.0 update (which u will receive ota as soon as u connect a wifi/3g/4g)- the heating problem has been solved satisfactorily. yea, playing wwe2k15 is troublesome, but it's a laggy game and works a little slow on my Samsung note 4 too..anyhow, comparing mi4i with note 4 would be unfair on the device. the camera has beautify feature pre installed. The polycarbonate sleek slim body is an envy to the users or sony xperia or Samsung users & even Yu yureka owners. when you hold its 130 g light frame, u feel it's indeed a flagship device. The best part...MIUI 6 app features...u have pre installed themes, app locks to protect gallerry/messages/watsap etc from others..in fact it gives an option to lock any app from the in-menu itself. u needn't worry about ur privacy anymore. there are options like pocket dial lock. hide pictures in gallery, floating lollipop notifications which won't stop a video or game if u receive a call inbetween, shake to align icons n widgets feature, inbuilt notification light color choosing option etc. it's a power packed phone and the 3030/3120 mah battery lasts a day easily with 1 hour of gaming n regular wifi/3g use. the charger is A2 generation fast charge tech adapter and charges the phone in approx. 2.5 hours...please don't use it via usb cable, it will take around 6 hours due to low power output. Cons: like every phone, it has a few cons too.. there are no headphones with the handset and it's a big let down considering even micromax spark gets one at 4999/- there is no memory card slot, its biggest let down. but, I bought a transcend 880s flash drive usb 3.0 otg and you can store apps in the pen drive by using lets go app on playstore. it supports microusb 2.0 and otg upto 32 gb, still a bit of a letdown. no video calling feature via sim cards...Skype/watsap/viber etc are functional with an exceptional performance front camera. Conclusion : don't let negative reviews fool u, it's an awesome mid segment device and currently outperforms the other similar products like yu yureka/honor 4x/Lenovo a7000/asus zenphone 2/xperia c3/xperia m4/moto g 2nd generation etc in both display, screen resolution,looks, lollipop interface (some of them are not even lollipop specs) and build quality/performance. go for it..at 13k with the only handset supporting 4g on both sims simultaneously, it's a great steal.
0|1.0|I m not satiesfied with MI4I mobile. Phone has problem of hitting. It's hitting while using it normally.
1|2.0|Not the best Phone for Performance. Cell hanges again and again. Display is really good and so are looks.
1|4.0|Phone is good but problem is only with heating. It heats so quick when using internet or watching videos.
0|5.0|Great Phone at such low price. Build quality is excellent. Thank you Amazon for quick delivery.
1|4.0|It asome phone i will order it just i am still watting it for phone come my home so u will order it mi4i
1|1.0|I brought this mobile via amazon on 14-10-2015 on offer Rs.9999 and plus cash back 3000 on HDFC card but am not getting the cash back simply they fooling the customer in the name of cash back. till date mobile is good but am very much upset on this cash back issue.
0|3.0|User friendly good camera but just after purchase of 15 days I need to visit service centre to solv prob
0|4.0|Phone overall is good but the buttons have a sound that is not very pleasant to here. No other complains
1|4.0|Phone is good. Battery, camera, touch and display are good. The cons is MIUI. It is too buggy
0|5.0|very good hardware. but there was a heating issue. i rooted and flashed a custom rom.. now its excellent
0|5.0|Fantastic phone... Just go for it.... Camera is awesome... Betray is too good.... I get it just 9999....
0|3.0|It is a mid ranger I found it slow. I think miui on lollipop is slow and consumes more battery
1|2.0|Just used for browsing for aminute it gets heated very soon Over over heating.....pls do not buy mi 4i
0|4.0|Very good phone.. Receive in excellent condition.. No damage.. Wish i would have got other casing color
1|1.0|Amazon providing very good service but the phone's camera is not good. I will give 4 ratings out of 10.
0|4.0|Nice phone but price dropped just after my purchase. But phone is much better than other in its segment
1|4.0|Amazing performance!! The only negative thing for this product is non-expandable memory....
0|5.0|Excellent mobile and wroth for money, but only drawback is no memory card can use only internal 16 GB.
1|4.0|It's one month since I bought. No problems. Everything seems good though I don't use it to play games.
0|3.0|i like product but front camera clerity so dull otherwise product is awasome sp plz replace mi4i again
0|5.0|I purchase this mobile 15 Oct 2015 after 15 days working good camera quality nice I love this phone...
0|2.0|User interface is not good..,battery heating issue,Mobile speakers not good,No headphones with product
0|5.0|Super fast delivery, got it within just 1 day and Mi4i is just awesome, best camera at this price *_*
0|1.0|There is problem with mobile, frequently signal goes and only emergency contact number gets dispalyed
0|3.0|I purchased this mobile through credit card and opt for instalment. But instalment won't happen why.
0|5.0|phone is awesome a gud xiaomi product your service is too gud then any other online shoping
0|1.0|This mobile is not good. It is being heating when u are on call or charging. It's also being hanging.
1|4.0|Its all good..but one prblm is there was heating prblm only....my opinion is was to buy this mobile..
0|5.0|Sleek n stylish! Good specs! Awesome battery backup! No heating problems after update.
0|5.0|Worth money camera supurb Nt much heating issues Gorgeous phone Hand full product
0|4.0|Lovely phone......liked the looks, performance of it!!! The only drawback seems 16GB limited memory.
0|5.0|Nice mobile.. It just awesome. N happy to purchase it reduced price only 8500 bucks in amazone sale.
1|1.0|Heating issue temperature raised like anything not safe at all charging taking 10hrs for full charge
0|1.0|I have received faulty model, & request for replacement. Let see what happens. Not happy.
0|5.0|Awesome Awesome Awespme
0|4.0|thank you AMAZON for the promised delivery... mobile awesome... yellow MI4I really a cool color....
0|2.0|Its bettery does not last much. Touch is not upto mark. Camera is very good which is the only plus.
1|5.0|Excellent !!!! Amazing!!! Just no words for brand camera quality. My selfie phablet.
0|3.0|Heating problem is there. SAR level is not being displayed. Appears to be more than allowable limit
1|4.0|It does heat up a little and once in a while hangs but display/ camera/ response are pretty good.
0|5.0|Everything is Excellent except some are Heating if talk for long time No Memory Expansion
0|5.0|Great product, as always been. Great delivery team. Kudos to entire Amazon team of their good work
0|3.0|Good looking and good price, but don't have the expandable memory card slot.. That's only drawback
1|1.0|As the music play in either audio or video the volume shows full but it decreases automatically...
1|4.0|Ok Product, Build quality is not that good, but the features in it are good. Value for money.
0|3.0|Display is nice, camera is good but not good at signal catching which is the most important thing.
0|5.0|Good phone. Display is superb. Masterpiece for the price offered. Very competent with other peers.
1|1.0|I used the phone for 15-20 days. Suddenly I started facing issue. Neither I can receive any call nor I can make any call. There was problem with device. Big thanks to Amazon customer care who helped me in return/refund of the product.
0|5.0|Excellent phone in sub 10k category. Using this phone for a month now and experience is all GOOD.
1|5.0|I brought it 4 my sister. ...itz a good phone. ..at gr8 price. ... I brought it for 9999 nly
0|2.0|Its really heats at top while in normal usage also,Please advise how to come out of this problem.
0|4.0|When I will receive 15% cashback for HDFC Credit Card for buying Mi4i phone on 13th of Oct. 2015.
0|5.0|Nice phone .... Worth the price ..... I wish memory was expandable .... But really awesome Phone
0|4.0|sab pata hai jab dekho tabb 1 mobile bacha hai, baki sab bik gaya hai, jabb mann hoga tabb lenge.
0|5.0|It's awesome....looking too good ...features gorgeous...camera clearlty is much more wonderful...
0|4.0|nice purduct... but only heating issue is bad... cemra is mind-blowing.. plz fix heating issues..
0|4.0|Overall experience is goof.. but speakers has some issues... And camera could have been better...
0|4.0|Good one. but lil disappointed with battery backup. happy with stunning look . overall its nice.
0|5.0|This is excellent product excellent display and touch pad this is 5 star rating product-A.chandu
1|5.0|This is my third MI phone. People say apple I have tasted its bitter. I am addicted to MI brand.
1|1.0|Excellent product but charger was missing in the box. Really shocked how this could be possible
1|2.0|Display and spekar is very poor my display is already brok in few days voice quality is not good
1|5.0|There is no any heating problem in my phone.great to use.and Amazon's courier service also great
1|2.0|My experience with Mi4i. After 1 week of normal usage it has been found that the mobile is not at all good for those who cares for their health. In daily usage with at-most 4 apps the temperature is at 43 deg which is not at all acceptable. When in call for more than 5 mins the phone heats up like you are near a stove and you experience the heat at your head. Pros: 1. Build quality(Simple and Classic) 9/10 2. Camera (Very Good) 9/10 3. Screen 10/10 4. Touch sensitivity 9/10 Cons: 1.Over heating (You can't bear that heat in hands and at head) 2.Battery drains quickly even when not in use. 3 Poor internet connectivity over mobile data even on 3G 4.High SAR value. You can feel when you are talking more than 5 mins. 5.You can not get called ID picture while receiving calls. 6. Very poor hardware optimization at temperature control on mother board. 7.Though it is a 2GB RAM mobile you only get around 800 MB free RAM which is of no use when playing High quality games. 8.Speaker volume is very less. 9.Hangs when you capture more than 8 photos continuously. 10.Need to reboot daily for good amount of RAM which is not possible all the time. I am not a fan to any brand but when you are investing money on anything it should worth of every rupee.
0|4.0|Xiaomi Mi 4i comes with a polycarbonate rear cover which is non removable and this cover wraps the phone from the rear side giving smooth rounded corners and edges. In terms of design there are more hints of the Redmi 2 rather than the Mi 4. There’s a soft touch matte finish with a non grease coating. The volume rocker and the power/standby button on right hand side are made of steel and have a nice feedback. The dual SIM tray is located on left hand side. On the top you have the 3.5mm audio jack and at the base there is the micro USB charging and data transfer port. The Xiaomi Mi 4i houses the Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 SoC (second generation) which has an octa core processor. You get a quad core Cortex A53 clocked at 1.7GHz also known as the performance cores and another quad core processor clocked at 1.1GHz known as power saving cores. It has an Adreno 405 GPU. This is paired with 2GB LPDDR3 RAM. The Mi 4i runs Android 5.0 Lollipop with the MIUI 6 skin on top. In terms of appearance, there isn’t a different look despite the Android Lollipop treatment. Only when you are in the Play Store to download apps, do you notice visually different controls from the MIUI 6 skin. It comes with 16GB of internal storage of which 12.9 GB is available to the user. Sadly, there isn’t a provision to add in a microSD card. According to Xiaomi’s Hugo Barra, the reason behind not having a microSD card slot was to ensure space-saving on the motherboard, since Xiaomi has used a small form factor motherboard to accommodate a large capacity battery (3120mAh). Barra also claimed that if users added in a poor quality microSD card in the slot, that would lead to performance issues. He said that Xiaomi does plan to come out with a higher capacity variant soon, but did not give any fixed timeline. It looks like Xiaomi wants you to use the Mi Cloud storage platform if you have higher storage needs, which may not be to everyone’s liking. The Xiaomi Mi 4i has a dual SIM, dual standy mode and can take in 4G SIM cards in both the slots. It features 802.11ac WiFi, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS/GLONASS and USB OTG. Presence of the second generation Qualcomm Snapdragon 615 SoC paired with 2GB RAM is enough to handle most tasks. The phone works well in the performance mode and the Adreno 405 GPU is capable of handling heavy games such as Asphalt 8: Airborne and Dead Trigger 2. Browsing on Chrome with over 10 tabs open at a time, along with 10 apps running in the background didn’t slow down the device or make it freeze.
1|2.0|The phone came slowly but it reached on 15th Aug (on national holiday) so its good on amazon part. The phone was okay, usual stuff you can find in other reviews, main thing to return the phone was that it was heating up even on normal tasks (no playing games), I was setting up the new phone as anyone does like adding accounts, installing essential apps, syncing data and it was heating up. Though there was not much heat but I have never used a phone which would heat up even that much while doing these simple tasks, I use iphone 6 now and it even heats less when I play games on it. So i gave it like 6-7 hours but the heat was even there when I was not doing anything, so i decided to return the mobile. Next day I returned the mobile back to amazon. Conclusion: If you are okay with a little bit of heat then its fine. A recommendation to new buyers, recently I searched alot of cpu's being used now a days and I recommend that you go with Snapdragon 8 series processors like 801, 810 etc. not 6 series, this mi4i and yureka etc. are all 6 series snapdragons and though they might claim to be efficient etc. they will lag / choke etc and they are nothing when compared to 8 series processors.
1|1.0|Initially after seeing the reviews, I purchased blindly and recommended to my friends and family members. Also almost reviews in the internet was wrong about this product. Four main issues of this product. 1. Not Enough RAM: Because most of RAM is used by MiUI6 ROM (almost 1gb), Did not improvement after updating to MiUI7 ROM. 2. Heating Issue: While playing Games are watching videos, the mobile get very hot and can't put in ur pocket after playing games are watching videos. 3. Battery: battery just runs out in one day. 4. Performance: every way performance, opening and closing apps , opening webpage , opening Games are equivalent to My MotoG 1st gen mobile. I get this mobile for 10K without any cashback offer and sold it in OLX for 8K in 2 weeks... its a loss, but piece of mind… Back with MotoG 1st gen... Even though some Software engineers are working in India for this mobile, its pure China Product. not worth for Indian Buyers
0|5.0|It soooo gooood than sony and samsung I like it
1|4.0|Torch light , and lower left side butten has no or useful function. Otherwise seems ok for me.
0|4.0|It is nice experience and delivered on time. There is no search option for any apps. Rest r OK.
1|5.0|The product is very efficient and has features like nothing else. Even more than expected.
0|2.0|Its battery performance is not good... it fully discharge on online about 4 hours and less
1|5.0|One thing is that it's heat more and there is no expandable memory. Else everything is perfect.
0|5.0|in a month time I am happy with this product. Camera is good. looks like Value for Money.
0|3.0|Phone heats up a bit on use of camera and light games. Otherwise it's good in the given price
0|5.0|Wow this phone is awesome... No heating issue smooth and also camera quality is excellent....
0|5.0|Don't hesitate to buy it. It's just awesome at 8.5k . At This price it cost me on 16 Oct . :-p
1|4.0|Purchased at Rs 8500 which is very cheap in his category... This device is best at this price.
0|5.0|Phone is just superb. It meets all the expectations especially the camera and the performance.
0|5.0|Excellent phone.... Really as per expectations... Good touch... Prompt delivery....
0|1.0|Cell phone was defective!!! google services was not supporting!!!play store IS not working!!!
1|4.0|It is very good mobile and having all the features. Both camera front and rear are excellent.
0|3.0|needs more battary back up. Try for the best quality of the products by using quality inputs.
0|1.0|worst experience with Amazon for this product... i ordered twice and both time it was faulty.
0|1.0|Faulty piece recived
0|4.0|Apart from heating issue and some software issues, the phone is awesome. Good camera Display
0|5.0|Very nice product and fantastic support by the Amazon team. They are very customer friendly.
0|4.0|my little experience says it is a good phone with features, super camera, good battery life.
1|4.0|Only problem is, that phone heats up too much. Rest its a very good buy at this price point.
0|4.0|This is a nice mobile But rear camera is not too good Selfy camera quality is good
0|5.0|Very good phone.. In fact very very good in its range.. good battery back up. Superb camera.
0|2.0|mobile not up to mark as expected ....camera is not good.....mobile gets heated very soonly
0|4.0|In comes in good shape. No problem whatsoever..the camera is very good especially front cam
0|3.0|Its high in SAR value .It toucuh 2.02.See that in the mid page of the manual of this phone.
0|1.0|What is wrong with Xiaomi? I am using all Mi products.But Mi4i is disaster. Serious Issues.
0|5.0|Using this phone for one week now.it is very good.phone looks amazing.. Wroth for the money
1|4.0|Very Good > The Resolution is perfect > Camera Clarity is Good >
1|4.0|Range is high but satisfied by the mobile performance only prblm with storage 16 not enough
0|5.0|Superb touch,great quality, slim, light and most qualities in one phone. Its amazing......
0|5.0|This is very nice mobile I have purchase Samsung galaxy note edge but mi 4 is very better
0|4.0|1) look great 2) Performance 10 out 10 3) Heating problem 4) rest look owsm
1|5.0|Mobile is good but its get heat like iron so plzzz give me a advice to solve this problem.
0|4.0|Hi All, Excellent service by Amazon. Worthy Product. Thank you.
0|3.0|There is no slot for additional storage. Very delicate and buy insurance without fail
0|5.0|one can not ask for more in this price range (more so with festive offers). a real steal.
0|5.0|nothing is better in this price... very good this is my 3rd Mi4i from amazon... go for it
0|5.0|Will the price decrease I really wanna buy in dis 72hour deal pls tell...I.love dis phone
0|5.0|Excellent product excellent service by amazon. Mi product is far better than other brands
0|5.0|Excellent! Fully satisfied with the product and Amazon's quick delivery...... Keep it up!
0|5.0|Very happy with delivery time that was Next day, offer and price..it is a gorgeous phone.
0|5.0|Excellent phone and excellent service delivery by Amazon. Will update more after use
0|1.0|Waste the mobile camera is not working its showing camera error whenever I try to open it
1|2.0|When use phone 20-25 minutes phone temperature very high ... Please replace my phone
0|4.0|I have ordered this product for my family member. good for him and he liked it very much.
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Shifted to thisnphobe after using iphone4s for 1.5 years. Very satisfied
0|1.0|this is not my order
0|3.0|With in a month my front camera stop working . over all product is good with its price .
0|5.0|best phone, its value for money, great display,light weight and unibody design, awesome!
0|4.0|Same as other xiaomi products, jus doesn't live up to the hype. Great service by amazon
0|4.0|I got it in 8500 at Amazon site and all the things are good according to my expectations
0|4.0|Thanks a lot Amazon team.this is awesome phone, I just purchase this phone is only 8500.
0|1.0|This has too much heating issue from back, is it same with all ? Or only with my handset
0|3.0|Phone getting heat very soon. Some of the features not available which having Red Mi 1S.
1|5.0|Really a good phone. Camera is too good. I luv it. There is no heating problem. No lags.
0|5.0|Just bought it for 10k on offer. The interface is amazing and the Camera is just Superb!
0|1.0|Calls are barred and i cannot receive calls even after software update, can anyone help?
0|4.0|Hi, Everything fine. sometimes device getting heating problem. Otherwise OK.
0|1.0|After fully charging the Battery, it drains out in less than 12 hours for normal usage. And screen heats up after 3 to 5 minutes of continuous usage.
0|2.0|it "s heating very much thou i dont play games,after reboot my ram is 989mb is free
0|4.0|Excellent mobile in this range.Hardware is too good, software needs minor improvements.
1|5.0|mobile Camera and all performance is very good except Game this phone is not for gaming
1|5.0|Very good mobile at a reasonable price point. Amazon's offer was the icing on the cake!
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Have been using it for over a month. Very light and great performance.
0|4.0|very good phone..but little heating issues are there while browsing on Mobile internet.
0|1.0|I don't like this it's getting irritating to me.when am using the mobile gets struck.
0|1.0|Its not working properly ! Getting heat n no battery backup ! Please help out
0|3.0|Lenovo K3 note is better than MIi4i. No expandable memory is worst part of this device.
0|5.0|Delivered promptly and in good condition. As for the mobile phone, nice to use. Very.
0|4.0|Go for it...its a best phone for 13000....better than moto and other similar phones....
0|5.0|Specifications are worth the cost.. Classy look.. Superb camera.. Innovative features..
0|5.0|Been using the phone for a month and no problems.... Love the os and very user friendly
1|1.0|I like this model, but WiFi is not working properly. I going to replace with new device
0|5.0|Beautiful piece of a phone. Slim. Speed is good. Mi is here to stay nd grow. Satified.
0|5.0|Excellent product .Fully satisfied with performance. Delivery in time .Amazing Amazon
1|5.0|excellent phone, got at effective good price of 8500 when cash back offer was running.
0|4.0|It's cool. Heating problem is solved thanks to MI developers team. It's working great.
0|2.0|Phone hangs suddenly and then restarts by itself. No clue as to why is this happening.
0|5.0|Excellent phone with lot of features..n very competitively priced. Great package Xiomi
0|5.0|Excellent display and moderate camera and quality of the back panel... Best value....
1|1.0|The front camera is showing some dots all over the screen and the image cannot be seen. Please help
0|4.0|Nice phone Very smooth ;) But there should be handsfree with the phone
0|3.0|Hangs & heat up while using WiFi camera good quality overall good using since one week
0|4.0|Product is good, it gets heated while charging. Amazon Delivery service excellent
0|5.0|Excellent product. Delivery was done on time. Great purchase. Recommended to everyone.
0|5.0|Its very simple to use and all d function are excellent.Battary backup very much good.
0|4.0|Its cools n awesome for gaming n camera bt sometimes or many times its lags n hang too
0|3.0|Carema quality is awesome ... But heating n hanging problem create lots of problem....
1|1.0|Doesn't even start!
0|5.0|BEST IN THIS RANGE.
0|1.0|very bad experience.I ordered by prepaid but courier cheated me given faulty product.
1|2.0|Internal memory good, cemara also good, one thing is external memory not there is bad
0|4.0|This mobile is very good and so fast. But battery back up average. Mi 4i nice mobile
1|1.0|I bought mi4i through amazon at Oct 2015. After one month front camera isn't working.
0|4.0|excellent phone is the price range of 10k. Control radiation level which seems higher
0|4.0|When we use dual sim data that tym network lost by 1 sim, Otherwise excellent product
0|4.0|http://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B0117H62QK?redirect=true&ref_=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_1
1|2.0|Heating issue, even if i use in 5 min.. getting too much heat... returned the device.
0|4.0|http://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B0104ZR8E6?redirect=true&ref_=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_0
0|5.0|mi4i is a superb style phone on low budget... display n camera is very good
0|1.0|Do not gave me a headphone.box item also available in headphone. Why not to gave me.
0|3.0|The fonts are not clear in some applications. Calls get disconnected without reasons.
1|4.0|Good phone with decent features ...,good camera ,but still have some heating issues .
1|2.0|Received the phone and I did all my data transfer and finally when I inserted the sim and try to make a call, nothing is audible. Then I found the headset icon on top of the screen. Looks like the phone detected a headphone even if there is not one. Called mi service number and they first asked me to clear cache which didn't help. Then they asked me to download a ROM and reinstall it after creating a backup. Done it and problem not resolved. On the other hand after I installed the new ROM the back up that I created doesn't exist. Thank you so much to Mi for loosing my data. Feels mad and now they want me to visit a service center. Every thing is forgivable but loosing my valuable data, I'm done with Mi, never again! Edit: Amazon has taken the item back and processed a full refund. The return experience with Amazon was excellent.
0|5.0|Mi4i is exellent phone. You all have to buy it. Exllent performance and best look...
1|4.0|Product is good, delivers in time but iIdidn't get the warranty card and user guide.
0|4.0|Worth Mobile.... I Love it .... 2GD RAM 16GB ROM and camera is really awesome ......
0|1.0|Problem in speakers occured in one month and 2 days. Totally disappointed from this.
0|1.0|Not good, heating issue, and screen and camera is not working properly dont buy it,
0|5.0|awesome brand i like mi so thanx to amazon to give a awesome deal to buy this phone
0|3.0|I like this one but sometime it get hanged and you have to wait for 3 to 4 minutes.
0|5.0|Superb mobile worth for money... Battery backup its long... Front camera so nice...
0|3.0|Great Screen and touch experience. Processor is pathetic. works like a 1 GB mobile.
0|2.0|Serious heating problem, not able to handle multitasking. performance is slow.
0|5.0|Excellent mobile at this price. Mi is going to stay long have. Just go for it
0|5.0|Nice product in this price rang. light weighted & slim smart phone in this sagment.
0|2.0|Defective Piece was delivered. Waste of time. I could have purchased another model.
0|4.0|i am using this product. this product is very nice. its camera quality is awesome.
0|5.0|too good product. no problem at all.i will recomend to all for buying this product
1|4.0|If you are getting it for 10k and 16gb memory is not an issue for you than buy it.
0|3.0|Yeh its camera quality is good on the whole it's a good piece till not any problem
0|2.0|Overheating issue. And in performance mode, the phone starts heating in 2 minutes.
0|3.0|Good mobile. Bought for 9999rs. 5 stars i proce drops back to 10k.
1|2.0|The front camera of this item is not working..... it seems some hardware issue....
0|1.0|Iam very disappointed.my feelings has bee drown.seriously I am feeling very bad ?
1|1.0|Phone not working properly. It is continuously lagging while using the camera app.
0|4.0|I order 16th amazon announced 22nd date but phone received in 19th phone was super
1|2.0|This mobile is bit slow. After changig fort size its hanhing and needs to, reboot.
0|1.0|Product was faulty and then they promised to give INR 300 which they did not give.
1|2.0|used the MI 4I before that i was using the IBALL Cobalt 4.7G(don't remember the exact model) 1. Photo quality of mobile is better in day time in compare to my old mobile. However not good in the night time. 2. Phone has speaker back side so face lot of issues while speaking with some one on speaker as well as if we would like to see any video. I think this is a very big issue. 3. was expecting that the phone would not get hanged but face book gets hanged on the mobile. 4. I am not sure why the Internet is not working when i connect through sim whereas others are able to connect when both of us are using the airtel. That is a real big issue. not so satisfied with MI 4I except on camera front in compare to my former mobile, which i had purchased 1.5 years back.
0|5.0|Amazon thanku for fast delivery PRO: Awesome design looks premium. Brilliant screen. Camera superb. Slim. CONS: storage not expandable
0|3.0|Not found as mentioned.... Zooming issues and touch response not satisfactory....
1|2.0|phone is working nicely but only 8gb internal memory . no headphone cost 400 more
1|2.0|after update in MIUI 7 hang issue are their battery charging is more than 3 hours
0|5.0|Best phone at this cost... Loved it. Amazon is always the best in service...
1|5.0|Nice one. Perfect size and weight. Easy UI.Battery life is good. Value for money.
0|4.0|Great phone. Good UI. Great feel. Slim and good. Used very lil n found no issues.
0|5.0|Bought the phone for my sister. It is working well. Looks premium. Amazing phone.
0|4.0|excellent product..... just its.... having some heating issues when using GPS....
0|5.0|Very very awesome mobile for camera, good look, big screen, and also for function
0|3.0|Good experience so far. Phone has certain issues with use of FACEBOOK app though.
0|4.0|Very nice phone but its not having expandable storage. overall excellant product
0|2.0|AS PER CONFIGURATION PRINT ON BOX PHONE IS VERY SLOW AND CAMERA IS ALSO NOT GUD.
0|4.0|Value for money, only pblm is gets heat up during use. Very good camera quality.
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Battery life is Simpy amazing. 1.5 days with full time data ON.
1|5.0|Everything I expected. Just great. Miss proper user's manual and head phone.
0|4.0|Nice product from xiomi, 4 star because it's android and not as secure as ios...
1|5.0|Its fully updated and latest in technology..i wud love to buy anytime anyday..!!
1|4.0|phone is good but camera quality is not good, hitting when use 4g and 3g network
0|5.0|good phone for the cost, camera was excellent, u can buy this mobile for the cam
1|4.0|I have been using Mi4i for the last one month and I can tell it is a good phone.
0|4.0|Good handy, slim with advance features equivalent to apple in affordable price.
0|4.0|Amazing phone in this price with these features amazing simply v.good phone. ..
0|2.0|Battery is draining out like anything. Eventing is good except for battery life
0|3.0|I want to know about the 15% cashbook through hdfc credit card on this purchase
0|4.0|Nice one mobile phone.,..... In this range...... Perfect quality....
0|5.0|Awesome Product. Extra slim, light and cool. Lov'd it..! Thanks
0|3.0|battery pickup was very low.not getting at least 3 hours while using Internet.
1|1.0|Over heating like iron box and automatically return to home screen and hanging
0|1.0|Very bad product i received... Mobile restarts 20-25 times a day automatically
0|5.0|Excellent battery,nice performance, 5inche IPS display,amazing camera visuals,
0|4.0|Very good my oder and curious man i am happy this curious man thank you Amazon
0|1.0|Poor Ram. MIUI is a lagger. Too many bugs. Proximity sensor doesn't work properly. More than 60% of the ram is always occupied resulting in very poor performance.
0|4.0|Nice phone But I didn't receive my 15% cash back which I was supposed to
1|5.0|I would not think twice to buy this phone if you're not into too heavy usage.
0|5.0|Gud phone to hang out with...with all best class features...go for it friends
0|5.0|excellent ! but i wud be better if its is delivered in North East region also
1|5.0|The package is very good. The mobile is also very good. we can purchase it.
0|3.0|When I tried to zoom pic or camera than creating like Small spot on screen..
0|1.0|Very poor quality and loads of performance issues are there !!! Very upset :(
0|1.0|Phone is hanging, heating and network is also not gone. Its very bad handset.
0|2.0|Not match my expectations Camera quality poor Battery not live long
1|1.0|Phone sometimes behaves wiered also the user guide and the sim ejector mising
1|4.0|The phone is thin, fast, camera is great, MIUI is ok and updates are regular.
1|1.0|the phone came up with nice specifications & attracted me to buy. i have used it for 4 days now & felt good so far. nice battery, less heat issue, 12GB user usable space, RAM is quite enough got having large games & didn't hang while playing. camera is good. today i was speaking a call in speaker phone & after speaking 15 minutes, the speaker damaged & the sound turned horrible with lot of noise. so just placed for refund. the speaker started working again in the next day normally. but i dont have trust if that wont damage again. the quality if the product is very poor & don't think it will be durable for a long time. hence opted refund rather than replace. so think before you buy this. i would personally recommend not to.
0|5.0|phone was nice but the flip cover I ordered later was not fitting this phone
0|2.0|I have not got cash back of 1500/- although i have used HDFS card. Pls gelp.
0|4.0|Best phone in range 10,000 Super quality camera. Front camera is super.
0|4.0|Everything is good except missing headphone/earphones in the box as promised
0|4.0|Verrrgood quality but no earphone in the box and no spece to external memory
1|1.0|Mobile is over heating when Camera is operating and also while doing browing
0|2.0|This Phone has heating problem ..so i suggest you please dont buy this phone
0|5.0|Fantastic mobile for the price. Just go for it, no need to think twice.
0|2.0|the phone gets very hot within 10 min of usage, wifi drops every now or then
0|5.0|Superb device though the plastic body seems delicate. No overheating nothing
0|5.0|Good Phone in below 15k ....if they add memory card slot it will help a lot.
0|1.0|Phone touch is not works properly .. and your replace time is to short
1|2.0|I Ordered the white one but received the black in front and white backside.
0|5.0|Nice mobile! has good features. Camera clarity is better than my old Nexus.
0|3.0|Awesome but the battery life less but is 3120 mah it hardly come half a day
1|5.0|Great mobile with little flaws,no memory card slot and simcards placements.
1|2.0|a phone with only 32/16 GB internal storage and no SD card support is waste
0|1.0|Heating problem, don't buy this phone, hardware is also very poor quality.
0|3.0|Well bought a Mi4i on 23 september and got it delivered by amazon on 25 september. As per my excitment it was very good looking device. Here i share my pros and cons: So lets begin with pros: 1. Excellent camera 2. Great build quality and design 3. Good quality display 4. lag free 5. Long durable battery 6. Quick charge is really cool 7. Sunlight display is really great Cons: 1. Heating after 10 mins of gameplay even after updating to latest miui. Heats even in simple games like pocket tanks. 2. No sd card support 3. Slippy phone 4. screen is fingerprint attractor 5. Only 10 gb free space available in 16 gb device
0|4.0|Phone is quite good. Battery is very good. Cons: Heating up is there.
0|3.0|Nice phone but the only drawback is it doesn't support the external memory
0|4.0|Very very nice mobile in this price Only one problem is sound is slow
0|4.0|In this price range mi 4i is best smartphone.....camera quality is too gud
1|4.0|Super phone BT my front camera was not in good concern who to get repaired
0|4.0|Nice phone, but hiring it's proccsesr very fast, miui great experience.
0|5.0|Aawwesomweeeeeee
0|5.0|very good phone ... value for money .. Just wish it gets Marshmallow
0|2.0|It has heating issue also juice is draining in around 7-8 for normal use.
0|4.0|A nice phone. Gets heated up if used for playing games ckmtinuously.
0|5.0|Very good budget phone. Decent battery life. Superb touch and resolution.
0|3.0|Weakest point is not having expandable memory :( ...which is the must...
0|5.0|A beauty from Xiaomi. Best phone ever. No heating after update. Don't se negative reviews. Just go for it.
0|1.0|Not good battery is running out very fastly.and internal space only 12 gb
1|4.0|Good phone, value for money but gets hanged specially while accessing FB.
0|5.0|Product is good meet required specifications, delivered on mentioned time
0|3.0|In a nutshell I would give stars. Cons: 1. Overheating( you might feel uncomfortable) 2. Charging is too slow, it takes as long as 3 hour to make it 100%( if you have patience GO FOR IT) 3. When it comes to high definition application or gaming you might experience some laggings. ( don't go for it if you are into gaming) Pro 1. As far as sound quality is concerned, I would rate 9 out of 10. 2. Although it has lollipop yet you won't be able to experience it, xiomi has launched its own interface on the top of it which is quite amazing you don't have yo worry at all. 3. DISPLAY: 10 out of 10 in this price range
0|4.0|CAMERA IS NOT VERY GOOD OVERALL GOOD AND NEED MORE STORAGE CAPACITY
0|4.0|Nice product. Good sleek model. Battery lasts for a day of moderate use.
1|4.0|The Incoming Ring Volume and Speaker volume is Low. Not up to the mark..
0|4.0|Good phone for basic usage. Keep mobile data off for more battery power.
0|1.0|its Very Worst Product and don't go for buy this much costliest IRON BOX
0|5.0|Vry nice in all feature In this rang it is best buy among all phone
0|4.0|Value for money.....awesome front camera ..overall efficient performance
0|2.0|not a good phone, hangs and net speed is very slow when used mobile data
0|1.0|i ordered grey colour, whereas i rec in white, how can i chng the colour
1|1.0|Phone gets rebooted several times a day and during call heats very fast.
0|4.0|Rings are too slow...battery is okkk n look's great nd camera is awesome
1|4.0|Every thing is good with this phone. But i hadnt got the ear phones
0|5.0|Very nice, good camera quality along with other features. Worth product.
1|1.0|Heating like a frying pan... options and apps are good but... if i make a call and speak 5 mnts and if a open games, download any thing it is heating like pan. i am unable to put the mobile at ear.. SIM insertion slot is difficult and unable to open battery. Please don't buy this mobile..
0|3.0|1month after having a charging problem. And Mobile phone slow work
0|3.0|good perfomance and quality camera and usful for personal home use.....
0|2.0|does not meet as expected. gets switched off suddenly with out any sign
0|4.0|Good phone with great pic quality. Picture processing speed is awesome.
0|5.0|Awesome phone.. great Seller... be original nuy original only on amazon
0|1.0|I defused delivery because product is defective piece I order again mi4
0|3.0|Poor in battery. Good display and video experience.. Camera is good....
0|1.0|even few clicks and call is making top front and back portion very hot.
0|5.0|Light weight excellent phone very good looking & handy just like iPhone
0|1.0|Payment get done twice but after sometimes it shows decline of the same
0|5.0|Very good product, very good perfect service amazon excellant i love it
1|4.0|good product,light weight,needs to be little more faster in processing.
0|5.0|Satisfied with the service and the quality of the product is Excellent.
0|1.0|I returned the product within a month as there was a motherboard issue.
0|4.0|Without ear fone & without cover so low impression over all phone super
0|1.0|Phone is bad.. Net slow hangs sometimes... Looking wise good only
0|4.0|It is a good phone but whrn we hear call on it its battery becomes hot
0|2.0|The phone looks very dull and small. Further the headphone was missing
0|4.0|Awsone mobile..but biggest problem is otg...some time not works otg...
0|2.0|Look wise its a cool product But in performance it lags sometimes
0|4.0|Do not update the mi version. Otherwise ur front camera will collapse.
0|5.0|good product but even after miui8 7 update it still has heating issues
1|4.0|No headphones ? No USB cable's Apart this the phone is good
0|4.0|Good product in the similar price range with all new features / specs.
0|5.0|Value for money
0|1.0|Worst service from Amazon, and the phone has defective camera, battery drains out in no time and screen resolutions are bad in sun light
1|2.0|heating problem, low battary backup, no good looking, hanging problem
1|4.0|Good visual quality, sound, battery life, camera and processing speed
0|4.0|Excellent Phone. Meets my expectation. Camera 13 mpx taking nice pics
1|5.0|Good value for money...... Awesome ph within this price range...
0|4.0|Great phone. Just gets a little heated up after using for a long time
1|5.0|Awsome product, but handle it carefully because it is too slim silky.
0|4.0|Great cellphone in its range. But I did not get the HDFC cashback yet
0|1.0|Worst product Hanging and sticking the phone after using 20 days
1|2.0|It's hang...heat's up a lot whle gaming and browsimg...don't buy..!!!
0|4.0|4 star only because it doesn't support external memory..... But nice
0|2.0|Starting it worked fine but after 1 month it started to hang and all.
1|5.0|Got a defective peice. Was a rakhi gift for my sis. Disappointed ??
0|1.0|Camera is not good quality, hang issue ... Auto brightness sensor is not working perfectly. While using internet its getting hot quickly. High hd games of Gameloft not installing after the completion of game download its showing installation error.. Tried for gangster Vegas and nfs. Once complete 50 % memory used after it start with hang issue, if u download any app or game through Google play store it download smoothly however it takes very long time it is taking so much time to install. (3 - 4 mins) and sometimes game download completely after that it may not install , so that you can lose your mobile data in zero value.
0|4.0|Delivered extremely fast. So far the phone has been very impressive.
1|5.0|Awesome phone. Using this from last 4 months,upto now no complaints.
0|5.0|Fantastic picture quality and decent performance. I love this phone.
0|4.0|There is a speaker problem, workaround is to calibration the speaker
0|5.0|Amazing product considering the price and features that it provides.
1|4.0|Good phone worthable,only draw back is not expandable limited memory
1|4.0|Good but my temper glass was a damaged piece so I am returning today
0|5.0|Best quality I ever seen....excellent camera.. Excellent feachers ..
1|5.0|Awesome handling experience. Clean UI and a very good looking phone.
1|2.0|I am writing this review after One week use of Mi4i. Amazon delivery is very good, i got the product on time. Initially 2-3 days it was working ok.But after that it start hanging in all major applications like Facebook, whatsapp etc. It also quit from the application while running.Now it is getting restart automatically after some time. Although the configuration is good on papers but its performance is not as good in real. You will also feel some lag & slightly heating problem if you use it for longer time.As it was under amazon fulfillment product so i am returning back to amazon.....
0|4.0|Nice handset, only one problem is external memory slot is not given
0|4.0|premium look phone,battery,resolution so good,i like it this phone.
0|5.0|The phone was awesome and as expected. Worth for every penny spent.
0|5.0|Great product for the price. Was delivered promptly by Amazon.
0|2.0|Seems a problem for its front camera. Photo contains fully graims.
1|5.0|Mi4i - Too Good , delivered in a day though it was a 2 day delivery
0|5.0|Overall an excellent experience. Received the product before time.
0|1.0|Mobile is getting heat after taking video and after using internet.
0|5.0|Good mobile at amazing price. And super delivery service by Amazon.
0|1.0|Got the product with already sealed was opened. Zero for servicing.
0|4.0|It's a good mobile worth for money and received in good condition.
0|3.0|Company should have given to external memory option at least 32 gb
0|3.0|front camera not working properly....pls go for any other product.
0|4.0|The product meets all my expectations. Best product at best price.
0|5.0|Good Phone with Amazing Offers of Amazon.... Simply Great....
0|5.0|With new technology, all is well but there is no expandable memory
1|5.0|Supeb phone at this range...no problem at all..dnt think go for it
0|5.0|Heats up a little after OS upgrade. Rest everything is good so far
1|5.0|TOP CLASS . DONT TRUST ON FAKE REVIEWS BY COMPETITORS , GO FOR IT.
0|4.0|This product is too good. Look like a premium device. With to buy.
0|5.0|Great phone, real value for money and very good service by Amazon.
1|1.0|it have cashback, if we pay with hdfc debitcard, but i dont get it
0|5.0|Got it for my mother, she is loving it. Fine piece of engineering.
1|5.0|Been using this since couple of months and finally thought about putting in some fair words about the phone. iPhone & Samsung better rethink your price tags, cause with so many features and stable OS on MI4i i am glad i bought this over some stupid expensive good for nothing brand phones. I would surely recommend this phone to everyone. BTW i was an iPhone user since 2012, it's my first android based phone. In my family everybody owns s*** brand SAMSUNG which i personally dislike, cause they are over-priced & worthless. There service center responses are cheap and pathetic.
0|2.0|the camera is not the said mp. its s*** phone the os is archaic
0|4.0|Good camera better thn though in low light.Recommend to purchase.
0|4.0|Mobile Continue use Heating Problem Otherwise Mobile is Very Good
0|3.0|When using mi4i mobile it become hot and battery get down quickly
1|4.0|Gud phone but I suggest the company to improve the camera quality
0|5.0|excellent i like it good features all in i thank for company
0|5.0|Good phone at the price . Bought it at 9999 during amazon sale .
0|2.0|Rear camera was not fully Working Fittment was also an issue
1|4.0|satisfied with the price and product but only white instead black
0|3.0|It's good but not best in this price-categorize of other mobiles.
1|5.0|Looking good & slim stlish... camera was so lovely in clearity...
0|1.0|Everything is good in this phone but 2 problems one is not expended memory and second is net problem don't buy this phone
1|4.0|gets heated. non expandable memory. display and camera are good.
0|5.0|In mobile box there is no Earphones Please Forward the Earphones
0|5.0|Very good looking and with good specs. Amazon service was good.
1|5.0|Good mobile.. Good battery. 16GB memory is also sufficient.
0|3.0|Some time phone will be hang . So advice for not to buy this one
0|3.0|Good ui , good performance. Camera average, less internal memory
0|3.0|I don't think it has 3000mAh battery. It seems to it has 1500mah
0|3.0|This smart phone is very useful and hi revolution camera quality
0|3.0|Product is good but the SIM card gets removed from time-to-time.
0|5.0|Worth every rupee, amazing phone for that price. Awesome camera.
0|3.0|Like everybody's saying, Heating issue is present in this phone.
1|5.0|Best product for this price.. Have been using it for 3months now
0|5.0|Both cameras is very very good,it will be best for handling & It comes with latest version Thanks to xiaomi India
0|1.0|Within Seven days of use, touch screen failed to work.(first fours days I have not used to transfer my contacts) I lost replacement time of 10 days. Got repaired after changing display unit.Lost Screen Protection sheet.Same Problem repeated next week again-Replaced Display again. Lost Screen Protection sheet.Just after five days of repair I noticed Camera Flash is not functioning. The service center with AC is so crowded that to hand over faulty mobile, I have spend half a day each time. To be ashamed I have to wait 4 hours to collect the repaired item.
1|4.0|Supeb system n looking good but sometimes even it is hanging...
1|4.0|Everything fine but the glass of phone is not upto the mark...
0|3.0|Mi 4i is superb phone I like to use than another mobiles...!!!!
0|1.0|the back button is not working within 15 days. worst experience
1|5.0|Got mobil @ 8500 too worthy and Amazon's service is awesome too
0|5.0|Delivery before time was not expected. good discount also.thanq
0|2.0|Product is specialized bt gts hot.. Mi needs to improve on dis
0|5.0|Only Problem is the UI .Its somewhat laggy Rest all great.
0|5.0|Awesome and best phone under 13k . Guys go for it . There is no heating issue no camera problem. The only con of this device is STORAGE rest everything is perfect. The best feature of this phone is DISPLAY 440ppi.
0|1.0|"Mi4i"....the WORST OF THE WORST Product ever manufactured.... Even I was one of xiaomi fan who had an MI3 and powerbank from MI. Inspired by these products I purchased this Mi4i on the flast sale on 28th July 2015, it took 6 days to deliver the product. On 3rd August I received the handset and was curious to enjoy this piece. But my expectations was in vain, as soon as I switched on the phone, severe heating and batter was at 3% which I thought its common in a new smart phone. So I switched off the phone and put for charge for 4 hours and later switched it On, BATTERY HEATING ISSUE was still there and the BATTERY DRAINING was like flowing water within 1hour the battery was at 10%.... I contacted the call centre for this issue they said me to do some tests and finally said " ITS A BATTERY ISSUE AND ITS COMMON IN ALL Mi4i". This response was said easily by the call centre person. Asked me to go to service centre for a free Battery replacement....Man its a new phone and they are easily asking me to waking to a service centre.... Worst and pathetic service and call centre... I have wrote this to all major online Gadgets reviews. And more over they are not in a policy of RETURN ORDER which most of the major ecommerce business has it like Amazon and Flipkart. Please friends never buy this phone, they are cheating people and no service even for day old product.... Worst of the worst service Industry, finally they proved that they are from CHINA...
0|5.0|It's too good product within lowest price overall it's amazing
1|4.0|Good phone. User interface pales in comparison to one plus one
1|4.0|Value for money..... No heating issue..... Nice user interface
0|5.0|Its a phone with good features, good performance, good screen.
0|4.0|Nice phone under this budget, but the UI is not up to the mark
0|4.0|Good one but still just heat up. Otherwise excellent product..
0|5.0|worth for money. 100% happy. main thing is no heating problem.
0|5.0|Better than expected. A quality product. Amazon remains best
0|4.0|over all phone is gud but mobiles get heated in 5min of usages
0|5.0|Very Nice mobile & Phone Feature is great, Paisa Vasul product
0|5.0|this phone is amazing i got in 8500. thanks diwali offer.
0|3.0|Very slim, light weight, over all good but easily heating
0|2.0|Ear piece is becoming heat even if you are speaking for 5 mins
0|2.0|this phone is in ok condition but its charger does not working
0|4.0|Very light weight...handy. MI UI user experience as well good.
0|5.0|This phone is very nice.good battary backup and best in price
0|5.0|The best handset Very light weight Excellent camera
0|5.0|I had never seen such a great phone I such a cost. It's super.
0|4.0|Good Phone in That Range as compare to Samsung n other brands
1|4.0|My cell phone has been lost but this devise is really owesome
0|5.0|it's like apple phone. good features. totally it's nice.
0|5.0|Very smooth phone. No heating problems. Got it wothin 3 days.
0|4.0|Phone is good.. but heating problem.. suggest some solution..
0|5.0|NICE MOBILE AND I FEEL HAPPY YOUR SERVICE ALSO EXCELLENT
0|1.0|The mobile is not taking the charge. Got a new one yesterday.
0|3.0|Mi4I mobile was good but mobile major issue is heting problem
0|5.0|I am very happy with dis mobile and amazing service by Amazon
1|4.0|Phone is good but it is hanging occasionally. Kind look into.
0|4.0|Mi4i awesome,amazing picture quality,and overall nice phone.
0|4.0|Nice mobile with steller performance. User friendly UI.
0|4.0|The product is nice the only issue is its low ringer volume.
0|5.0|The only thing bad is storage... Excellent phone indeed.....
0|5.0|It's a awesome phone at this price.... Recommended for all
1|4.0|Good mobile @9999.specification is all so good.light weight.
0|2.0|Same day delivery I taken option but I got item night 10:30.
0|1.0|FRONT CAM IS NOT WORKING. PRIMARY CAM IS VERY VERY BAD.
0|5.0|Excellent phone ,great offer and best service from amazon !!
1|2.0|Camera quality so poor over all nice phon except camera
0|2.0|Alot Hanging problem slow touch response . not as I aspects
1|4.0|This is a good product. The battery lasts for about 12 hrs.
1|5.0|Very good phone but there is a drawback of external memory.
0|3.0|Performance is gud BT want to replace so much heating issue
0|5.0|Got it before the promised date.product is good and working
1|4.0|Product is good but it took to much time to deliver product
0|5.0|Best budget phone good service by amazon and better profuct
0|1.0|Other performance found OK...bit heating is very worst.....
0|4.0|Excellent product except heating problem while using Camera
0|4.0|This phone is great its heting issue is solved after update
0|4.0|Mi4i best price to smartphone, pictures cliarity very nice.
1|1.0|I am facing a network problem... Kindly resolve this issue.
0|4.0|Heating problem only Other wisw its a five star phone.
0|1.0|Very poor ''
0|5.0|thanks amozon i like this side and service
1|5.0|Nice experience. Only thing is phone gets hot quite often.
0|1.0|sometimes its hungs , can we do the exchange of this phone
0|5.0|It is amazing although battery gets heated very frequently
0|4.0|The Phone is quite good, the software is best you will get
0|3.0|heating problem. also having some touch issue while using.
0|3.0|Nice phone for its price. Amazon services are really good.
0|3.0|Camera & display is good, For gaming its not so good.
0|4.0|Nice phone with little heating problem... Miui is great...
0|3.0|Nice phone but don't know why there is no headset for it ?
1|4.0|Does not have expandable memory.. otherwise phone is good.
0|1.0|cash back not credited my credit card account as per offer
0|4.0|Awesome phone and nice Amazon's delivery was simply superb
0|4.0|Great phone yr..... Really impressive Pesa vasool....
0|3.0|1. Me being an android fan, dint like the miui..its basically a tried copy of iOS. 2.the camera is namesake 13mp...images get pixelated on a little zooming or wen light is a little low. 3. Batrey drains a lot... 4. Phone space gets used up real quik...i cudnt delete the files in the misc folder that got filled up to 1.5 gb in 3 days The good points though---the phone interface is smooth and good to use..and ....there is no lag in any of the apps...and screen is toooo damn excellent
1|5.0|Amazing Product developed by Xiaomi Communication of Mi4i
0|4.0|Value for money phone.Superb Camera.Godd Amazone servicce
1|1.0|i have ordered Mi 4i n i have not headset n screen guard.
0|4.0|good device i seen in my carer and good capacities screen
0|5.0|I liked this product but i dint got Earrphones with this.
0|1.0|Battery and performance is very bad don't buy prefer Asus
0|2.0|Everything is good but when using Internet it getting hot
0|5.0|Great performance, light weight , feels premium in hands.
0|1.0|In this mobile have ato insert external memory card ..??
0|4.0|good phone ,one major problem is that it heat during call
1|5.0|Phone is good but heating and microphone problem still.
1|4.0|Every thing is fine except there is no expandable memory
0|2.0|Bad phone heating problem this phone heats like a cooker
0|5.0|good and nice phone with handsome discount of Rs. 3000/-
1|4.0|Mi 41 phone is good but charging will be take 4/5 houres
0|4.0|I bot this for my dad. His feedback is "awesome"
0|4.0|It would have been better,if you provide ear plugin.....
0|5.0|The amazing smartphone in my life. Thank you Amazon
0|5.0|Excellent features in reasonable price.. thanks Amazon..
0|5.0|Good mobile and super prompt delivery....full satisfied.
0|5.0|Good one but not batter than Redmi Note 4G, if looking at dual SIM it may be batter option.
0|3.0|I have used it 3 weeks and writing this review Pros:- Good design, look, no hanging, Good battery backup, good camera(Front/Back),Light weight,good price Cons:- Heating problem(I updated this phone as soon as i get it), but while playing small games for 5-10 Min,it started heating but not too much heat Sound is not much high No Support for SD Card Xiaomi not giving any ear phones Overall Its OK. My rating would be 3.5/5
1|4.0|Good mobile .. With very good battery backup as of now
0|5.0|I want to buy 1 more @ 10000/- Best phone ever...
0|3.0|it overall good ... but it heats up.. if we browse more
0|4.0|I got it for Rs. 9,999 one month back. So far so good..
0|5.0|Superb device. If gives problem then use RootBooster :D
0|5.0|Excellent Product with Great Feature! Simply Wonderful.
0|3.0|Good ph at decent price ....hangs a few times rest good
0|3.0|Nice mobile but it's over heat fingers feeling very hot
0|3.0|My cash back which day available? product is Good.
0|1.0|Recieved defective product with a half working screen!!
0|1.0|go for lenovo or htc .......... repenting on my mistake
0|4.0|I'm loving it and now became fan of MI and Amazon also.
0|1.0|Not Good Heating Problem, after updating MUI also
0|5.0|Thanks u remember me very nice mi 4i I m gating 5,star
0|5.0|Great Product from Mi, Good seller with faster sipping.
1|4.0|After looking for 3 months for mobiles, Finally I decided to buy this mi4i mobile. This is very good and having all the features as mentioned are excellent...it's been 4 days now, and I have not seen any drawback in this mobile so far.....so many people have given comments about battery, but that is not as bad as people have written in comments.....I would suggest to buy this mobile if you are looking for good one without comprosing on other details....
1|5.0|Ultimate mobile at this price. Gr8 2 b with mi.:D
0|4.0|Best phone in best range price +15% Hdfc cashback. Yo!
0|5.0|Awsm phone with outstanding features best in category.
0|5.0|amazing amazing amazing... just buy it... loved it...
1|5.0|Very good phone as described.I always believe Amazon .
0|5.0|Im interested in this phone If it is at 9999/- rs
1|1.0|My mi4 mobile not showing network plz solve my problem
0|5.0|Value for money. Recommended for customization lovers.
0|5.0|Great phone at this price.very nicely packed by Amazon
0|5.0|definitely the best mobile phone in this price range..
0|3.0|I didn't receive earphones.... And screen also ceacked
0|5.0|It's nice phone but there is no external sd card space
1|5.0|Hey I need to exchange mobile to moto g 3rd generation
0|5.0|Nice phone and work is so Smith and camera was amazing
0|5.0|Prompt service from Amazon good phone, value for money
1|5.0|ohhh wow....its amazing frnds. .....totally loved this
1|2.0|Heating issues... Please don't buy and save your money
0|2.0|The phone is really slow unlike the reviews I had read. Every time I open facebook or zomato it closes within 10 min.. with an error pop up "Facebook Not Responding"/ "Zomato not responding". Also you get cut off in the middle off the phone call, many a times. I had thought it to be a mistake of the sim. Got late to figure that it was not. Also the phone gets heated up soon. However the look and feel of the phone is very good.
0|5.0|Its SUPER !!! Camera quality is awesome.Its better than other costlier phones.It never hangs like Samsung and the processing speed is very fast. 16GB memory,2GB RAM and 13MP/5MP Camera makes it the best phone. If you want to ask any question then go to facebook page of Mi4i users, there you will get all the details about this phone. If you are planning to buy a phone of around 13-15k range then this one is for you.
0|5.0|very very very very good mi 4i mobile show very cute
0|1.0|Worst phone. Heating problems .... Sudden power off..
1|5.0|its really ggod mobile in the cost amazon offered me.
1|4.0|Its cool and crazy phone... but head set not provided
0|4.0|Its a great phone but heating issue is continue .....
0|5.0|Amazing camera... sleek and light weight.... Loved it
0|4.0|NICE PHONE..NICE CAMERA..in this Amount. IMTIYAZ
0|3.0|I also bought k3 note, which is far better than this.
1|4.0|Got it for 9999/-, though battery drains quite fast !
0|5.0|It's an awesome phonr. Especially the camera clarity.
1|4.0|After update there is some heating issue still exist.
1|4.0|Mobile getting heat while charging and playing games
0|5.0|Great value for money. Nice delivery time by amazon.
0|5.0|Happy with the phone and service provided by amazon.
0|5.0|Excellent phone iam very much happy with the product
0|4.0|Good phone but heated when using 3g or charging timw
0|5.0|Nyc phne n slim n stylish n camera ? is superb ?
1|5.0|mobile is best but courier facility is not good.....
0|4.0|It's a best mobile working but no memory card insert
0|3.0|It hangs frequently but overall is a decent product.
0|5.0|its the best phone in this range, Worth buying it...
0|5.0|Value for Money. UI is phenomenal. A must buy phone.
0|4.0|Very good phone. Only the speaker sound is bit low.
0|5.0|Very good piece, no hang up. Very good battery life
0|2.0|Not met expectations, both in performace and price,
0|3.0|Specs are good, but still heating issue is there.,
0|3.0|Camera is not that up to the mark...else it is fine
0|4.0|Very good phone much better then my earlier nexus5.
1|5.0|Super phone... Super design.... Super battery... :)
0|5.0|Want to cancel my order but no option is showing...
0|5.0|Amazing product Great service by amazon
0|3.0|Sencer is not working properly mobile is heating...
0|3.0|Phone is good but truecaller not work in this phone
0|3.0|First of all very good nd quick service from Amazon I booked my mobile on 13th night and I received at 14th.... Now abt mobile.. Any looks it very slim very nice Touch is also very smooth.. Camera quality is also good... Battery backup is also good.. By some times its heating... Total storage is 16gb... But 10.50gb is for us use All over its a good phone....
1|1.0|I am facing heating problem. No happy with product
0|4.0|Love the performance, battery backup, and camera.
1|5.0|Its best phone. Camera is good.awsm fast charging.
0|5.0|Good phone. Easy to use. Looks nice. Worth buying.
0|5.0|Exactly as per my expectation. Thanks Team Amazon.
0|4.0|The best VFM phone below 10k. Just go for it!
0|3.0|Battery backup not good battery drainage very fast
0|5.0|speed is good and also camera result best quality.
0|4.0|It's very good product and great delivery service.
0|4.0|Good one.... Up till now no issue with these phone
0|3.0|2/3 minutes use karne par phone hit pakad leta hai
0|5.0|Superb product but now price is less so go for it.
0|5.0|Really nice phone and great commitment from amazon
1|5.0|All letest fiture available Smooth &cool look
0|3.0|Very bad experience. Courier service is very poor.
0|5.0|Much more better than moto g. Recently I am buyed one moto g. I also used redmi note. Redmi products are user friendly and easy to handle. A really good smart phone. On the other hand buying moto g is wastage of money. It one of the poorest phone I have ever seen. So pls don't go for moto g 3rd gen. Buy redmi always. Ifvi have a option then certainly I am change my moto g 3rd gen with mi 4i.
0|5.0|Well satisfied with my purchase. Prompt delivery.
0|3.0|Phone is good but external memary is not avelebal
0|5.0|Great Phone & Value for Money through AMAZON deal
0|5.0|Good Mobile but not up to the mark compare to Mi3
0|5.0|yes But didnt get cash back yet!!! Else its great
0|3.0|I want to buy this phone on semi what should I do
1|1.0|Hang and network issue after two days of purchase
0|5.0|The best one for its value.. Thank u amazon.
0|4.0|Product is Excellent. Amazon Delivery is too good
0|5.0|Product is good, but cashback is still awaited...
0|5.0|The delivery was in time.Product is good.Thank u
0|1.0|Many times call disconnect after 5 to 12 seconds
0|3.0|camera is not that good as specified bt it is ok
1|5.0|Received the product within 48 Hrs...Amazing....
0|3.0|Excellent Service by seller.. product is SO So..
0|4.0|Satisfied with phone and the service from amazon
0|5.0|Super product.... its worth purchasing and using
0|5.0|Best phone...in style and in also specification.
1|4.0|really good smart phone available at this price.
0|4.0|Phone is good but they r not providing handsfree
0|3.0|Over heating used only 4days but its overheating
0|5.0|Are available hindi language in this smartphone?
0|5.0|Very Nice Device and excellent service by Amazon
0|5.0|Overall good phone in 13000 better then moto g 3
0|5.0|No heating issue , in one word you will love it.
0|1.0|I am very much disappointed with Mi4i because, the mobile I got didn't work after 6 days from my received day...:(
0|4.0|Good mobile but not compare to Samsung mobiles.
0|3.0|Looks great but heats up even on minimal usage.
1|5.0|Awsum phone....fully satisfied wd the product:)
0|5.0|Mobile is awesome and worth for the money spent
0|4.0|Best mobile for 9999rs. I got it for big b land
0|3.0|The phone is fine but some times I find it slow
0|5.0|Good phone at good delivery service of flipkart
0|5.0|Nice handset..but have a little heating problem
0|5.0|Felling happy with Mi4i, Thank you amazon.
0|1.0|Heating problem, sound is very low, bad product
0|3.0|every thing is ok but handset heats up too much
0|3.0|I found Lenovo note 3 is much better than mi4i.
0|5.0|Nice phone and fast service of Amazon.in thanks
0|2.0|Heating problem is main issue.Low sound effort.
1|1.0|The Screen Hangs abruptly and at times it becomes difficult to pick the call / unlock the screen, Had received the product on 3rd Oct and asked for the refund on 7th Oct. The Phone was picked back on 8th Oct.,, I am Still waiting for the refund. I would not recommend this phone though it has got great looks / excellent camera quality
0|4.0|Nice product with good camera and touch screen
0|4.0|Very Good product quality . Thanks Amazon team
0|3.0|Good phone but contact are not saved sometimes
0|4.0|It's good compare to other Android base device
0|5.0|Nice product Thanks to amazon with good offer.
0|4.0|it's nice smart phone at lower price i like it
0|3.0|Heat high & battery Also not till long one day
0|4.0|Awsm phone awsm camera .No heating and lagging
0|4.0|Original product thanku Amazon shopping online
0|4.0|good product in this price range -heating
1|4.0|its one of the good phone i have ever explore.
0|4.0|Good buy for the price ..... Worth it....
0|1.0|Total wast .heating problem.and tower problem.
0|5.0|Awesome phone loved it... superb in less price
0|4.0|A good product and well delivered by Amazon
0|4.0|All is good except Heating and memory space...
0|5.0|I get this phone for my brother .and hi is so happy after geting that phone.its spacification is awasam is working to good,battery life is also god,for gaming purpose is work perfactly.according to me its cloude storage and os is so much good .I love this phone.its provide automatik update facility so that after updating thats phone us get extra featuers.
0|3.0|As everyone said it is indeed a wonderful phone. Isn't there a single person who has come across any problems with the Skype video call..??is it just my set which had this problem and anyways it has been sent back now and will be ordering the same phone again...just taking chances here..let me know if any of you have come across the same problem..!!
0|5.0|First of all hats off to amazon for the delivery within 2 days .my phone is now 2 days old its operating like butter,bole toh maska,no lag nothing the heating issue is solved after the update of almost 900mb ,camea is simply awesome,display is superb,only one thing i dint like that is does not have external storage,But overall phone is fantastic.
0|2.0|The phone heats a lot. In the morning the process temperature will be at 31 c. when a play games, or even simple applications i run for 10 mins. the process temprature goes to 42 to 43 C minimum. .. raise in of 12 C. think it of before buying for 10K if in 10 min if it goes to 10 C. how log the phone get last in your hands if you use every day.
1|4.0|Grt selfish cam.... Simple looks grt handling
1|4.0|I mobile is very good and there is no problem
0|5.0|Nice mobile at nice price thanks Amazon team.
0|4.0|light wt .running smooth. good batery backup.
0|5.0|Using it from one month very good performance
0|3.0|one week back i purchased this..it is good ..
0|5.0|perfect gift for my wife at an amazing price.
0|3.0|looking its grt. But charging downs quikly!!!
0|4.0|Nice phone but processor needs to be improved
0|4.0|Little bit heating problem... else amazing...
1|4.0|Very good but there is no airphone in the box
0|5.0|very nice mobile... good camera quality.
0|5.0|Does it has flash light is it USA China brand
0|3.0|Nice to use but hangs sometimes and gets warm
0|1.0|after a month of using this phone its hanging
0|5.0|Superb phone its look better than my htc 820s
0|2.0|Nice Product but we cannot insert memory card
0|4.0|Good features, but battey pick up will low ..
0|5.0|Very happy with the performance and design...
0|3.0|Nice phone but better phone are in market now
0|1.0|Amazon sent the mobile but both time faulty. It's really frustrating
0|5.0|When i get cash back of mobile Pls rply
0|4.0|Nice phone but sometime battery becomes hot.
0|3.0|Low Sound quality, Stranded browser hanging.
0|5.0|Perfect. 100% genuine product. Thanks Amazon
0|5.0|very nice product at lowest price. good deal
0|2.0|it is a China product let us see the quality
0|5.0|It's a good phone, its camera is very nice .
0|1.0|Heating in handset 2 processing is slow
1|4.0|15% Case back not refund in my account why??
0|5.0|Excellent Phone at such competitive price!!!
0|2.0|new phone creating problem in call answering
1|4.0|i expected ear phone in the pack.but missing
0|4.0|Overall very smart mobile. But volume is low
1|1.0|Don't buy it. Sensors doesn't work properly.
0|4.0|No info regarding cashback during purchasing
0|5.0|Kadak piece... Ghya bindast. Value for money
0|4.0|So far good... Let's see time will tell...
0|5.0|excellent service by amazon and good product
0|3.0|If RAM could have been 3gb it would be great
0|4.0|The product is good and it is user friendly.
0|2.0|This phone hangs like hell. Don't go for it.
0|5.0|Ultimate Phone with outstanding performance.
0|5.0|Awesome phone.. Very fast delivery thankss.
1|4.0|bought recently ....best mobile under 15K ..... prons: best Build quality... battery working excelent. before buying i was in dilema for heating of phone ( from earlier comments) but after the MIUI updates No Heating problem found.. cons: ear phone is missing. expandable micro SD should be provided.
0|3.0|Mob me kuch avaj ati jb is ko shack karte h
0|4.0|Product is really good in affordable price.
0|3.0|No changeable battery.phone hang up 2 times
0|1.0|Not upto the mark still have some drawbacks
0|5.0|Best phone for 10k good camera nice display
0|5.0|Awesome smartfone ...go ahead w/o any doubt
0|3.0|battery is vwry poor.. no memory card slot
1|5.0|Excellent offer by Amazon and worth buying.
0|5.0|Value for money , Amazon Service is Awesome
0|3.0|Battery very poor and fone quality not good
0|5.0|Nice ... delivered as promised. Good phone.
1|5.0|It's good mobile & Amazon service is good
0|5.0|Excellent display and camera 441ppi 1920*1080 Battery backup good..can easily last one day Looks premium in hand Ergonomically designed Dual sim with 4g Latest android Light weight Octa core processor powered by 2gb ram and 2nd generation snapdragon which makes it Amazingly fast . No lag at all. Cornering Gorilla glass
0|1.0|Worst mobile. very heating while using selfi camera for 1mins.
0|5.0|It's great phone but only issue is memory.
0|4.0|Great product but a little problem of heat
0|5.0|this product is amazing at this prize. :-)
0|3.0|Nice product.. But It has heating problems
0|5.0|Its very good phone in this price range...
1|4.0|good mobile at this price- value for money
0|5.0|Got product on time and with best quality.
0|4.0|Nice phone and good service of amozone.in.
0|1.0|Hanging Problem...fb app doesn't work well
0|3.0|I didn't receive a headset with the device
0|5.0|No complaints, product just as advertised.
0|5.0|Awesome phone and Great services by Amazon
0|5.0|Good product. got even better with updates
0|5.0|Excellent phone in this Price Range ......
0|4.0|Great device just lacking memory card slot
0|3.0|Product is awsome but much heating problem
0|4.0|It's very good experience with this phone.
1|1.0|Keypad not working properly also hanging
0|4.0|nice excellent but some issues were there
0|4.0|Its a good phone having all the features.
0|4.0|Its a good phone having all the features.
0|5.0|Good and worth for money.. Decent camera.
0|5.0|excellent product with outstanding camera
0|4.0|The phone is quite good forte price paid.
1|5.0|Product was good. Meets the expectation.
1|5.0|Didn't got USB cable and charging adapter
1|5.0|Good phone but heated while playing games
0|4.0|Asusual. . :) One more nice phone from MI
0|5.0|really a impressive phone. loving it
0|4.0|Nice featured mobile in reasonable price.
1|4.0|Working good but sometimes look like hang
0|5.0|As it is on amazon. As per specification.
1|4.0|it has no ear phone coming with this pack
0|5.0|Awsome phn realy love this phn satisfied
0|5.0|Good product and best service of amazon.
0|4.0|YES I AM SATISFIED WITH MI4I MOBILE.....
1|4.0|Hi..very nice mobile no heating issue...
0|3.0|It is good, but Hitting Mobile upto-40.c
0|5.0|A good phon in this range i love it.....
0|5.0|great phone and great deal thanks amazon
0|3.0|Nice product but was very late to arrive
0|2.0|heating problem, funcationl it was great
0|5.0|So nice phone. Built quality is so nice.
1|4.0|sound is slow, hangs a bit. rest is fine
0|5.0|Nice smart phone at an affordable price.
0|3.0|There was no user manual in the package
1|5.0|The product and Amazon service was good.
0|4.0|Nice phone but no external memory option
0|1.0|Display crashed as soon as I switched on
0|5.0|A Wonderful looking 5.0 inch android phone. great performance, have not faced any over- heating issues in the first 7 days of use. MIUI only enhances android lollipop 5.0 experience. I also use a 16GB moto G (1st gen) and one can easily agree that MIUI interface is a generation apart. Decent battery back up, lasts entire day, screen resolution is optimal and is easily usable during bright sunny days
0|4.0|Really Happy with this product.........
0|5.0|Excellent price for a nice config phone
0|4.0|good product worth to buy in this range
0|4.0|good phone, mainly camera is excellent.
0|4.0|Nice phone @ the price I got it for ...
0|4.0|Nice but call disconnects automatically
0|1.0|Very slow phone in comparison to Yureka
0|4.0|Very good mobile in an affordable price
0|5.0|Fast Delivery as well as Awesome Mobile
0|3.0|Good experience as a first time @Amazon
1|1.0|Not receive earphone along with Mobile.
0|5.0|Nice mobile low price high satisfaction
0|3.0|Camera quality is not upto mark of 13mp
0|3.0|http://jobrize.com/index.php?ref=374644
0|5.0|Phone is Great, can purchase it blindly
0|5.0|Excellent quality and good performance.
0|5.0|This is amazing ! Delivery was on time.
0|5.0|World's Best Camera In This Phone !!!!!
1|1.0|Please do not buy this phone becaus it's wastage of money google browser does not work this phone even app breakup in the middle if i would have buy 5k phone that gives better result.According to price it s look good in features but those fetures not works as well as battery.
1|4.0|Good but heating when net is activated
0|3.0|performance good, but heating is high.
0|3.0|Good product and well on-time delivery
0|3.0|Handset looks good and satisfactorily.
1|5.0|Good deal but waiting for cash back...
0|5.0|Superb phn with best quality delivery.
0|5.0|Exlent screen quality, and performance
0|4.0|Value for money.. Best phone under 10k
1|5.0|Good one, but do not have memory card.
0|5.0|Very nice phone amazing battery backup
0|5.0|Overall good product as this price....
0|4.0|Very good mobile super worth for money
0|5.0|I am very very happy. thanks amazon .
0|5.0|NYC product and amazing Amazon service
0|1.0|net not working...i want to replace...
0|5.0|nice mobile..... i love this.....
0|4.0|Nice phone go 4 it at a worthful price
0|5.0|Performance super but mobile is so hot
0|1.0|nothing
1|5.0|Very good mobile at this price range!
0|5.0|very good product at reasonable price
0|4.0|Good product and good overall service
0|5.0|very good procust and amazing feature
0|5.0|Delivery before estimated time. Great
0|4.0|Overall nice mobile compared to value
0|5.0|Nice product. No issues what so ever.
0|3.0|not upto the mark..but working fine..
0|5.0|Nice product pretty close to iPhone 6
0|3.0|Mobile is getting hanged many time...
0|3.0|Heating problem and performance issue
0|5.0|Nice phone Delivered before time
1|1.0|its available for rs 9999 at flipkart
0|4.0|Heating problem, delivery before time some time hanging
0|4.0|Headphones not available with mobile
0|1.0|Heating very very hot ?????
0|3.0|Phone is heating when using Internet.
1|4.0|Mi4i is very good light weight mobile After used of 4 months I am fully satisfied with this device
0|5.0|Write your review here excellent
0|5.0|very nice phone ..buy it nd enjoy....
0|5.0|I like it very much, excellent phone
1|4.0|Decent mobile delivered very quickly
0|5.0|Excellent Phone, camera, performance
0|1.0|Getting heat after using some time..
1|5.0|Excellent phone in 9999 price range.
0|5.0|Excellent service and over all good.
0|5.0|very good and better than local mkt.
0|5.0|I might very happy with the product
0|5.0|Excellent phone in this price range.
0|5.0|Good Product.. with proper packaging
0|5.0|awesome smartphone with a great deal
0|2.0|This phone is getting heat sooo much
0|4.0|Very good phone. bettry only one day
0|5.0|Why Earphone not present with mobile
1|5.0|Assume phone. But few bugs in MIUI6.
0|2.0|Lot of heating... Particularly in 4G
0|5.0|Awesome product, met my expectations
0|1.0|Very poor service dont purchased plz
0|5.0|Loved it! Blue color looks awesme! ?
0|3.0|most of time getting heat during use
0|5.0|It is more than worth for the money.
0|3.0|Its good but needs more improvements
0|2.0|Doesn't connect to playstore . buggy
0|5.0|Nice smart phone for a cheaper price
0|1.0|Bad experience with front camera, but that seems to be only to my piece as my friends similar models are working perfectly fine. and Mi Services refused to listen saying go to amazon. But return policy of amazon is amazing (5 stars to amazon).
0|4.0|Good phone according to its price..
1|4.0|Good one.... Happy to have Mi4i....
0|5.0|Its great phone with great features
0|4.0|Very nice mobile and user friendly.
0|5.0|Great phone and service from Amazon
0|5.0|Best mobile ....better than I-phone
1|5.0|its working good it has all futures
0|4.0|It is v good for cartying in pocket
0|5.0|very nice product and nice delivery
0|5.0|good phone. everything works fine
1|4.0|Its a good phone but lags sometimes
0|3.0|Good handset but more heating issue
1|1.0|Very very wrost performance mobile
0|4.0|the phone is good and user friendly
0|5.0|At this price.. definitely worth it
0|5.0|Amazing phone... Value for money...
0|3.0|display is dim compared to xperia c
1|5.0|Mi 4i is very good and secure phone
0|3.0|Quality is good but data apps issue
0|5.0|Good mobile and features are goods.
0|4.0|It has 2gb ram but free only 600 mb
1|5.0|GOOD PRODUCT BUT DO HAVE HEADPHONES
0|5.0|Sar Gujarati language his supported
1|5.0|Very useful phone this budget great
1|4.0|Good but heating problem with hang
0|5.0|Value for money. Best handset
0|4.0|The best mobile .......first class
0|3.0|always hang and quick battery down
1|1.0|Problem in phono no garuntee given
0|4.0|good product with a good price tag
1|5.0|Nice phone with quickly delivered.
0|5.0|Awesome Phone only SD card lagging
0|5.0|its a great phone, worth its price
0|5.0|It's an amazing phone.... must buy
0|5.0|Good one...paisa wasool ...phone..
0|4.0|Does is support gujarati language?
1|5.0|Product is good. On time Delivery.
0|5.0|Nice phone at such a great price..
0|5.0|Must have phone in the price range
1|5.0|Nice mobile with reasonable price.
0|4.0|Awesome products in this price. :)
0|3.0|yaeh its good phone at price 10000
1|4.0|Good VFM phone but UI is confusing
0|5.0|Nice device for a reasonable price
0|4.0|phone with amazing features ......
0|5.0|100% satisfy for this product....
0|2.0|this is goods but hang some times
0|4.0|It is a good phone for its price.
1|4.0|It's gud as per the expectations.
1|4.0|Good but still it can be improved
0|3.0|Over heating and apps icons block
0|3.0|Good phone but heating issue.....
1|4.0|Good phone for this price. Thanks
0|5.0|Nice product excellent I loved it
0|4.0|Really good product nd offer also
0|1.0|Not according to your expectation
0|5.0|nice mobile almost looking iphone
0|3.0|Sound quality is below average...
0|3.0|Good mobile... But heats up...
1|1.0|Very poor quality and performance
0|5.0|Rate & Service both are very good
0|5.0|Very Good mobile....In this price
0|5.0|Very nice mobile, value for money
0|1.0|Mobile is good but battery is bed
0|5.0|Good phone with multiples quality
0|5.0|super product but not water proof
0|4.0|awesone product at this price tag
0|5.0|Amazing phone. I usually dont buy chinese phones. But i took a chance with this phone and its erformance blew me away. Amazing performance amazing features and looks and feel great. Definitely a great buy and value for money
0|5.0|superb
0|4.0|GOOD PRODUCT AND SERVICE TO.....
0|4.0|working good camera is excellent
0|3.0|Very good product in this price.
0|5.0|Nice Instrument.Value for Money.
0|4.0|Good product in its price range.
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Value for money
0|4.0|Very Nice phone, volue for money
1|5.0|Bought this phone one month back
0|5.0|This is the best phone under 10k
0|1.0|Phone getting hung..major issues
0|1.0|Unsatisfied with heating problem
0|3.0|Still not got cash back of 15 %
0|4.0|Very good phone. Fully satisfied
0|1.0|Heating like a frypan. Too upset
0|5.0|i love this set ....paisa wasull
0|5.0|good product with good features.
1|5.0|Good phone. .timely delivery ...
0|1.0|So hanging phone very bad phone
0|5.0|Great phone. Utterly satisfied.
0|5.0|A good set presently doing fine
0|4.0|Need option for external memory
0|3.0|nice smart phone for daily use.
0|4.0|Good fone and very handy & cute
0|4.0|Product nice and quick delivery
0|4.0|Good Product but no accessories
0|3.0|I want to cancel my mi 4i order
0|5.0|Excellent go for it. thanks Mi.
0|5.0|Superrr mobaill paisa vasul....
1|1.0|It's heating during operations
0|4.0|Value for money.Just go for it.
0|1.0|Bad quality product supplied :(
0|2.0|Only charger in pack no handset
1|5.0|Vasu happy Annachi(Amazon)!!!!!
0|4.0|Not given ear phone... Why
0|5.0|Fast delivery done I M happy tx
0|2.0|No ear phones in the sealed box
1|5.0|it is more than my expectation.
0|1.0|Phone sound quality is not good
0|1.0|no option to insert memory card
0|5.0|Superb phone with in budget....
0|5.0|Good product.. Value for money.
0|1.0|Just a f**ked a*s phone. Nothing by performance except the looks. It gets automatically discharged in 5-6 hours even if not used. Automatically gets off and also heats up rapidly. Never go for this phone.
0|4.0|As usual speedy delivery by Amazon.Great budget phone.No over heating issues as yet but time shall tell the tale! Go ahead and buy if you are looking for a completely different android experience!!
0|3.0|Getting heated up at the back.
0|5.0|Performance beyond expectation
0|5.0|Excellent phone.smooth working
0|4.0|Best phone in this price range
0|4.0|Very good and awesome delivery
0|4.0|Awesome product at this price.
0|4.0|When can I expect my cash back
0|1.0|Sucks, loses signal every time
0|5.0|Very nice product ...very slim
0|5.0|I am on Seventh sky....Awesome
0|5.0|Excellent phone in this range
0|5.0|Nice mobile. Looking very slim
1|5.0|very prompt service , loved it
0|3.0|The phone gets hang very often
0|5.0|best phone in the price range.
1|4.0|Can u use external memory card
0|4.0|product is awesome ,very happy
1|5.0|Considering the large no. of devices in sub- 10k category. This device has the potential to stand out of the top. Its a beauty with beast. *no heating problem for me on MIUI 7.0.3
0|4.0|Nyc phone, delivered on time.
0|2.0|Bad camera. very disappointed
0|5.0|Its a good phone. Nice phone.
0|5.0|Fantastic and prompt service.
0|5.0|Good Product and Good service
0|3.0|sim contacts are not display.
0|5.0|Mobile is working very nicely
1|5.0|Product and shipping is good.
0|4.0|Gorilla glass in this phone ?
0|4.0|It is good news user friendly
0|5.0|EXCELLENT PRODUCT AND SERVICE
0|4.0|Battery is so powerful. I will give it 4 star.
0|4.0|No problem. Seems to be good.
0|2.0|Heating problem+ hang problem
0|5.0|Great phone for the price. ..
0|4.0|good phone and amazon service
0|5.0|1 day delivery.. Nice product
0|4.0|Awesome mobile for this range
0|4.0|Satisfactory Report so far :)
0|4.0|Its definitely a good phone for its price. I bought this because of reviews from my friends who have bought the same and also the next day delivery option promptly given by Amazon. I am experiencing a major issue with the phone. My mobile data keeps fluctuating and many a times, I have lost important updates such as emails and chats on whatsapp. This happens only when the phone works on mobile data: 3G/4G and works absolutely fine when connected on WIFI. The funny part is that I am using Airtel on my phone and I also have an Airtel 3G wifi dongle. Both of them are accessed from the same location but mobile data keeps stopping every time whereas when I connect to wifi, it works perfectly well. Updating an app or just a google voice command doesn't open because of this issue. I don't feel this is a software glitch! Pros: Lightweight, slim, Decent Looking, Decent Features. Cons: NO EXPANDABLE MEMORY AVAILABLE! UI is a bit confusing especially when you get into the menu/settings. Sync feature drains off the battery pretty fast. No headphones with this phone. If you are planning to purchase, pay the extra 3000 and go for the 32gb model as 16gb gets over pretty quickly.
0|5.0|I am completely in LOVE with this phone. I bought this phone for my birthday. I had selected the Two-Day-Guarantee delivery option and I got it the next day itself. The battery life is amazing. It lasts for about a day and a half which includes usage and standby. Full charging upto 100% takes 2 hours approximately. The camera is lovely. Back camera could have been a little better but still, it is amazing. The front camera on the other hand is beyond outstanding. It is one of the best front cameras I have ever come across. The built is very sleek and attractive. I'd say just perfect, and the colours add to it's awesomeness. Even though it doesn't have an expandable memory option, I would say, no big deal. 16 GB or 32 GB is enough. The necessity however, will vary from person to person but since I don't store anything in my phone except a few photos and apps, the memory size is decent. I wasn't very impressed with the charger that comes with it. It's a two pin charger and started heating up the very first time. Phone performance is just out of the world. Even with a few apps running, the phone runs smoothly. The speaker sound quality is great. Overall, I would say, PLEASE buy this phone because it is 100% value for money and it's a phone that will love you back. CONS: Camera could be a little better. 2. The charger isn't very impressive.
0|5.0|I always restrained myself from buying Xiaomi phones, primarily because of it being a Chinese company and secondly as it has a heavily customized UI. I have always been a lover of stock android, but honestly I have to admit, though it's similarity with IOS but the UI is just awesome with minimal or no lag. A very light and slim phone. Sharp and crisp display. I think for a 5 inch phone 1080p resolution is good enough. I have seen QHD display on Samsung S6 at a local retailer, but honestly on a 5 inch screen you won't find much of a difference. Display is on par with the AMOLED that you find on Samsung S4. A fully pumped up battery will complete a full day's tour with enough juice left at bed time and that's the report after keeping 3G on all day long. Call quality is good. The sound from the speaker on the phone is the only let down that I found so far. It's not that bad but lacks loudness and a stereo would had been better. Camera quality is just good with no complaints there. I would strongly recommend this phone. A complete value for money. I don't play games much so no comments for that.I think Mi 4 should take care of that with an SP 801 processor and 3 gigs of RAM. I was confused over the two but went with Mi 4i for it's better display quality and overall value for money. Also it's 64 bit architecutre, end user however will not see a difference as the mobile platform has not moved to 64 bit yet. As we still have majority of the application on 32 bit. Build Quality: 10/10 Display: 10/10 (my personal preference as I don't find any reason to have a QHD display on a phone except if you want the battery to drain faster) Call Quality: 9/10 Speaker Sound: 7/10 Battery: 9/10 Cellular Connectivity: 9/10 UI; 10/10
0|5.0|Having been using the Mi4 now for 4+ months - absolutely brilliant phone. 64GB ROM and 3GB memory - the phone is super fast. The display is amazing, especially compared with my previous phone - Galaxy S2. I am not using an additional screen guard but the top plastic cover is amazingly tough and clear. Sound and battery life - meets expectations, although the speaker slot on one side of the phone takes a bit of time to use properly. Using a headset - no problems. And, seems to support all bluetooth devices out of the box. I do not use the Mi account, and "report home" is disabled as far as I can make out. But, the updates still work fine - only can not download skins or themes, which is fine with me. Further, the Mi implementation of the Android gives me super control over my apps in terms of what they are doing, including reporting home - something that was missing in my previous phone. And, this by itself is a great feature to have to stop apps from sending data back to their makers. Very, very impressed. Good bye, Samsung.
1|4.0|Phone has a splendid design. The display clarity is so beautiful that I dont feel like putting down my phone. I have seen/had 1080p display phones earlier and no phone has such a clarity as this one has. Battery backup is decent enough. On an average use it could last for more than a day. It might be a slight disappointment for gamers which this phone would fail to cater their needs to. I haven't felt heating issues while playing games as was complained against earlier. However it does get tad little hot but only after some continuous playtime. Also playing high end graphics games is not a forte for this phone. Games like Nova 3 literally lags and lags even in performance mode. I am not much into games so this wouldn't bother me much. Another slight let down is that me coming from Nexus background I am so much used to lolipop style background apps which MIUI doesnt have that and the one which it has is not at all good. It takes a while to get used to MIUI but it doesnt come any close to stock android experience per say. BTW the phone size 5" inch display I guess is perfect. I was initially wishing this phone came with 5.5" display but trust me, this size is just right about in your hands. Go for this phone if you are looking for some splendid display, good design, decent batter backup and budget minded.
0|4.0|I have got this mobile for about 3 months from now. I have been longing to write the reviews for Mi4i. I have sub categorized some features so that I hope it might be useful Performance - With 2GB RAM working is seamless. No lags. (3.5 of 5) Display - Rich and vibrant display. So its clean and also in HD (3.5 of 5) Weight - The most feather weighted phone I have ever seen. Handy too. (4 of 5) Battery - A 3125 mAh is enough for to hold the battery for a single day(postday charge upto 100%) while using Data(What's App,Facebook.etc..) (3.75 of 5) Camera - The 13 MP Sony/Samsung Lens is a signature to this product. Also it is preinstalled with Beautify 2.0 which is amazing. ( 4 of 5) Flash - A Dual tone flash which gives low lighting a woow into effect.(3.8 of 5) Front Camera - A responsive 5 MP front camera useful for skype and selfies.(3.5 of 5) I hope by this point of time all would have found more and more about the Mi4i heat problem. YES initially it was present. But an update was released to overcome this problem and BELIEVE ME OR NOT the heating is reduced enormously. By the use of PERFORMANCE MODE higher end games such as Modern Combat 3 and others do work good. Well it does consume power and of course heat is generated. I have tested it personally that the heating is not more than 44 degrees and that is by running the mob in PERFORMANCE MODE. A Qual - Comm SnapDragon 615 processor with an Octa core processor is mind blowing. Initially, if the phone is not in PERFORMANCE the the usage of the Quad core. IF turned on, then it is the Octa Core at work. DRAWBACKS WHAT I FEEL AS A EASTER EGG: 1) There is no EXTERNAL MEMORY SPACE.Only the in build memory is available were of 16GB only 12GB is available. 2) No GORILLA GLASS. I suggest you to but the phone with the TEMPERED GLASS of Xiaomi itself. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- All basic apps and functionalities are in-built and the best is given for a novice user or a new user to droid. Experience the LOLLIPOP version is great and makes it more interactive and impressive. The whole rating for Xiaomi Mi4i as a current user is (3.85 of 5) Recommend you to but it. If u still have queries or any information you need do ask me.
1|5.0|After a Few months i was very confused what would me buy a better smartfone. I daily check out on many sites which phone is better.i discuused to the experts any many people which phone are better.they told them mi4i is much more better phone then other compatble feautres like as Moto g 3rd,lenovo A700,lenovo K3 note and some others.but i did;nt belve on this tym.but i used a moto g 3rd gen i opend a lock screen i swipe a 5 or 6 times to unlock a screen but they didi not response nt some kind of lack ness in this .so i confirmed moto g 3rd is good phone some but times they did not response imedeatly and second is lenovo A700 My friend its have a lenovo a700 but he used a few monthes and they gave a such as bitch problem. the touch of lenove is wroking stop .Its true You belive me.i sad this wrost phone so my friend take a decison to bought a mi4i .and third one is lenovo 73 note .its good phone but they screen is not a look better . the back panel of lenovo k3 note is sme qulaity issue they7 disi not propley fiit to the phones. i used a phone one day they i holded the phone i feels the back pannel not fitt propely.so afte a long time i decided to bought a mi4i .its awsome phone ever and ever its qulaty is tooo excelent they have no heating issue some people post a comment to heat problem they ol sucks its fake/overol am fuul satisfy to the mi4i . i will be used a phone a months and i upadate a reviews to how its works them .but am satisfy .any other user to confuse to ehich phone a buy go for it mi4i . so user wait my next update a reviws as soon . thnks to amazon. to provied a betther smart phone to the today genration . i will be wait a MIUI 7 upadte on mi4i launch in 19 agust in india .
0|4.0|A happy & satisfied customer
0|5.0|great product at great price
0|4.0|very nice working very well.
0|5.0|Wonderful product. Loving it
0|4.0|I am happy with this product
0|4.0|Very nice phone.. Go for it!
0|5.0|A wonderful mobile ever used
1|5.0|Good product value for money
0|5.0|Nice mobile. Fast delivered.
0|5.0|got it for 9999. great price
0|4.0|Happy..better than EXPECTED.
0|5.0|its really very good product
0|2.0|Total My Expectation is lost
0|3.0|nice phone very light weight
1|5.0|Mi 4i GOOD phon in excellent
0|1.0|Stopped working in 2-3 days.
0|5.0|great value for money phone.
0|2.0|Gets heated up very quickly.
0|5.0|Real stunning phone.No heating good battery backup.Very pretty phone.All problems solved by new update 666.External memory can add up to how much we like by otg USB memory.Very good display.
0|5.0|Earlier i was thinking whether i should go for this or not, as many of my friends were saying it is China, heating problem and all. They were suggesting me for Yureka plus, because my budget was 10-12K. I saw review in you tube about it and i thought lets go ahead and buy it.Finally i got this mobile by Amazon within 3 days. I wont go for specification,as all know about it. Whatever i found in this is, it looks simply awesome, slim. I have bought white colour, as per my opinion you should buy white colour because its back is mat finish white. here will be no stain on your mobile back side. Battery backup is really good. On full charging if you are using net, game or video for one day it is enough, you need not to worry at all. For normal usage 2 days enough. Camera is superb both front and rear, kind of digital camera. Except this no lagging, no heating everything is fine. At last I am using this mobile since last 40 days, I didn't find any issue.
0|2.0|Not a good phn hang problem
0|3.0|Not upto the mark, just OK.
1|5.0|This mobile is worth money.
0|5.0|awsome mobile at this price
0|4.0|Excellent phone to use.....
1|5.0|Decent phone for its price.
0|5.0|Phone with excellent camera
1|1.0|Camera not working properly
1|1.0|Power button is not working
1|5.0|Nice Phone..value for money
0|4.0|Very good device,go for it.
0|1.0|I think I got fake product.
1|2.0|The product arrived damaged
0|5.0|Nice phone camera is better
0|1.0|Heating problem.........!!!
0|1.0|Some mistakes in new mobile
0|5.0|Nice mobile. Great feature.
0|3.0|only 10 GB to use..........
0|1.0|only positive thing is display.. performance is very bad.. very laggy UI. miui looks nice but performs bad, you will feel like a 512mb ram mobile.. app loading times are poor.. camera is neither bad nor good. it does its job not so as expected.. i did face heating problem around the camera even in normal use battery life is excellent by the way but charging takes a while. i did face heating problrm on 3g and wifi in normal use even after the latest miui6.6.6 update.. performance improves in performance mode,, but the battery drains and the heat issue starts. cooncern ,SAR value is 1.29 w/kg at head which amazon didnt mention in the description.. i got pissed off after i saw the values on the box mobile didnt impress me a bit after 2 days of usage..i did return the product.. better go for samsung j7 my choice.. it is nice. first time i bought a china phone but it didnt live up to my expectation..i wish a stock android 5.1.1 on mi4i rather than buggy miui6.
0|5.0|good product. as expected.
0|5.0|Great deal. I got for 9999
0|2.0|Below average performance.
0|4.0|NICE PHONE FOR THIS AMOUNT
0|5.0|Excellent phone. Very Good
0|5.0|Very happy with the mobile
0|4.0|best phone i baught ever..
0|5.0|good product in this range
1|5.0|Serious software issue with MI 4i phones.Very often network ,phone calls and data get disconnected .Caller ID and call registry software do not show call itinerary properly.MI should take up this issue seriously and rectify the software problems otherwise on one fine day MI will loose the market.
0|1.0|Battery pe up is not their
0|4.0|Good phone with best price
0|2.0|Shal not serve my purpose!
0|1.0|It costs 10000 on flipkart
0|1.0|it is not so as excepted..
0|1.0|Headphones not I need that
0|2.0|When note 2 realised india
0|5.0|good phone very slim
0|5.0|Its very good than samsung
1|5.0|good phone but less memory
0|5.0|Just one word..... Awesome
0|4.0|No heat issues cool phone.
0|4.0|Nice mobile in mid range..
0|3.0|I faced proximity sensor problems. I'm guessing it's got to do with the latest updates. If you can manage without proximity feature, it's an awesome phone
0|1.0|Worst phone I ever bought
0|5.0|Super phone in low budget
0|4.0|Good Phone at good price.
0|5.0|Must Say : Just Awesome .
0|1.0|Speed nahi hay intrnet ki
0|5.0|Best phone for that price
1|1.0|Charger is not working...
0|1.0|This product is not good
1|5.0|It's good....worth buying
0|5.0|its a complete package...
0|2.0|Power back up is not good
1|4.0|Good but heatting problem
0|5.0|Mi4i..big like.. Too good
0|5.0|Very good product from mi
0|4.0|Bast phone in this praise
0|5.0|Nice phone..... I like it
0|5.0|Nice and affordable phone
0|4.0|good phone..nice but slow
1|4.0|its not bad in this Prize
1|5.0|Good phone for this price
0|4.0|Good phone at low price.
0|4.0|Its cool working so nice
1|5.0|good phone in this price
1|4.0|It's worth at this rate.
0|5.0|Cool it is soo wondering
1|2.0|Not a good phone for 13k
0|5.0|good product i am happy.
0|5.0|It is really very nice..
0|4.0|Awesome Phone! Loved it!
0|1.0|It has a heating problem
0|4.0|Nice phone ,light weight
0|5.0|Got at a very good price
0|4.0|product was as expected.
0|5.0|Exilent... I'm loving it
0|4.0|Good phone for the price
0|5.0|Works good,weight less ,
0|4.0|Good phone in my budget.
1|1.0|I do no have this mobile
1|5.0|This is one great phone!
0|4.0|This is n exelent device
0|3.0|Apps r opening very slow
1|1.0|I don't like this phone.
0|5.0|best phone in this range
0|5.0|awsome phone sply camera
0|4.0|the UI is good, battery performance is good. phone is of just the right weight. have not experienced heating issues. i would recommend it.
0|5.0|best
0|5.0|Amazing thing on Amazon
1|4.0|good phone nothing else
1|1.0|Menu button not working
0|5.0|Great product by amazon
0|4.0|Great value for money..
0|5.0|nice phone in low price
1|5.0|very good, cheap mobile
0|5.0|Mi4i phone is excellent
0|2.0|Performance is very bad
0|5.0|Very happy satisfied.
1|2.0|As the phones screen is heating so much,I can use it as a wormer....
1|5.0|Good product save money
0|1.0|Worst it's not for mi4i
1|5.0|very good phone from mi
0|5.0|Great Deal Great Saving
0|4.0|Very nice and different
0|5.0|Nice n fast as expected
1|4.0|It meets my requirement
0|5.0|Good Phone friendly use
0|4.0|lovely, but gets heated
0|5.0|Weight less and compact
0|4.0|Inbuilt is Just 10.70GB
0|5.0|Nice phone good working
0|1.0|got a damaged mi4i mobile .. pleaze buy this product from other online sites cam is nothing but grains,battery backup poor.
1|2.0|I am very much disappointed. After lot of reviews decided to go ahead with MI 4I Grey color. Unpacked and just placed sim and switched on, OMG... Started heating and cant tell how much was disturbed during that time, Later i have realized on review from others towards heating issue. Trust me, i didn't call either opened any default app, even then its Heating very abnormally. Look is really good. Esp Grey color piece is awesome, however bottom line is not worthy. Guys i would say and tell to all in this forum, Decided and take a call on purchase. Hope my piece would have such issue either it should be for all. However i am not luck to own MI 4I, lets c if any luck work out in future with MI product of MI 4C.
0|5.0|very interested offers
0|3.0|It's a very good phone
0|5.0|Love it, fast shipping
0|1.0|I did't get headphones
0|5.0|The bestest phone. :)
0|5.0|Great Phone. Loved it!
0|4.0|IT IS AN AMAZING PHONE
0|3.0|Good product under 10k
0|5.0|Nice phone in low cost
1|1.0|Sensor is not working.
1|5.0|Believe me go for it..
0|5.0|Very fast and accurate
0|4.0|Good buy for the moneyGood buy for the money
0|5.0|pixel density is good,
0|1.0|i got the defected one
0|2.0|Having network problem
0|5.0|beautiful and worthy
0|3.0|phone Memory very low.
1|1.0|Thought its the great deal. After payment only it shows as refurbished which is not shown in any screen order confirmation.
0|5.0|The phone is a stunner. Has amazing quality HD Screen. Camera is excellent. What I miss is a dedicated camera button.
0|5.0|Phone is superb only problem is is jus heating while charging otherwise display. Camera.battery backup is simply superb.
0|3.0|Does not have Ear phones in this product... phone lokking is good....no option insert the memory card in the phone....
1|4.0|complete paisa vasool
0|4.0|It is worth its cost.
0|5.0|This phone is amazing
0|3.0|Its good not too good
0|3.0|Mi 4i heating problem
0|3.0|battery is not worthy
0|5.0|Good for medium usage
0|4.0|Nice mobile in budget
0|1.0|got defective handset
1|5.0|Very good mobile. Vfm
0|5.0|Worth the money spent
1|4.0|Good one to work with
0|5.0|Excellent Phone......
0|5.0|Best phone this price
0|4.0|Very nice camera.....
0|3.0|problem in microphone
0|3.0|Ring tone is veey low
1|5.0|Did not get head phne
0|4.0|Very lovable phone...
0|3.0|Skip this go for Mi.4
0|4.0|I will write only the negative points, apart from that everything else is good 1. Heating problem while charging, internet surfing and long duration calls 2. Low volume of ringtone, Vibration quality is also poor. you won't be able to sense the phone is ringing if you are at noisy area. 3. Auto key operation even in lock screen. Many times the phone started music and other operations while kept in pocket. tried every options still the problem exists. 4.Scratch resistance is very poor, i recommend you to buy a screen guard along with this phone. Still i recommend this phone. But think about your need based upon the four points i mentioned before buying..
1|1.0|Phone is heating up. During call heat is getting descipated to ears also. need solution for the same
1|1.0|**First of all let me tell you that I DID NOT PURCHASE this phone** #My opinion based on research. Im one of those people who have limited capital and searching for a good phone at this range. Ok so I almost went for this phone as i was tempted by the awesome features at the given price (great indian festival offer) but then I did extensive research and as most of you, WHO HAVE EYES will notice that this darn product has a major heating problem. Yes i searched on all e commerce sites and other sites. Friggin reviewing sites don't give a sh*t as to what happens after one purchases the product and use it for a year or maybe 2 years. -_-
0|3.0|Phone gets heats....
0|5.0|It's very nice phone
0|4.0|Phone is working OK.
0|5.0|100% Genuine Product
0|4.0|Satisfied with price
0|3.0|Very less memory....
0|1.0|Now working properly
1|1.0|I want to return it.
0|4.0|It was nice product
0|4.0|Nice phone very slim
0|1.0|Worst camera quality
0|4.0|I love it.. Yahooooo
0|3.0|Frequently it hanged
0|4.0|Nice phone nice look
1|1.0|Ghatia bilkul gatiya
0|5.0|In this no earphones
0|4.0|It is a good product
0|1.0|Pls any one tell me about the hang problem in dis phne.I heared from someone tht dis phn will create dis problm
0|2.0|At first phone seem good to me but after normal usage of five to ten minutes phone gets heated up and it's battery isn't much efficient to go a full day without charge on normal usage. Photo gets heated up quickly and goes above 40+ which can damage the motherboard or any other parts of phone. Even while placed for charging phone remains hot. Now looking on better side of phone, front camera is fabulous. Video clarity and high end game like GTA 3 is supported but phone get heated up very fast so you will not be able to enjoy it. While in call it feels like you can make toast on your phone.
1|1.0|Charger not working phone switched off kindly help me phone not working its hard to survive without phone
0|1.0|The internal speaker is giving some sort of vibrating sound during calls. Also the Notification LEDs are not at all working. Thanks to inbuilt tool which helped me diagnose the basic functions of the phone. As a user, if i was ignorant about this inbuilt tool, it might have taken me long time to identify this defect. It is very unfortunate that this level defect pieces are dispatched. How to open inbuilt "Hardware test" tool: From Home Screen, 1. Press Phone button. 2. Using Dial keypad, type *#*#6484#*#* 3. Follow the instructions as described for each test. Enjoy Testing !!! Mi 4i (16GB, Grey)
0|4.0|Good phone, probably the best with respect to value for money. THere are a lot of features that you find out only when you search online as the phone does not come with a user manual. However, does heat up quite a bit - makes talking very difficult if u have been on the internet recently Out of 2 GB RAM, at any point you only get max. ~900 MB (even in a brand new phone) - the OS takes almost 1GB of RAM. It seems to be running some processes in the background which apparently Xiaomi has refused to disclose. Also if you are not careful all data would automatically get uploaded to Xiaomi's cloud somewhere in China.
0|4.0|Happy with phone ..
1|4.0|Very good equipment
0|5.0|I loved the product
0|3.0|Mobile getting heat
1|1.0|Got damaged product
1|5.0|Camera quality awsm
0|4.0|Looks good till now
0|5.0|Nice one from xiomi
0|5.0|Rocking MI4i Mobile
0|2.0|It hangs very often
0|3.0|good phone for 8.5K
0|2.0|Phone is been warm.
1|5.0|Little heat problem
0|5.0|Har bar rate change
0|4.0|Very slim and smart
0|5.0|gr8 phone to buy...
0|4.0|Overall Good phone.
0|1.0|Very slow hanging..
0|2.0|Worst speaker sound
1|1.0|THIS IS WAIST PHONE
0|4.0|good in price range
0|5.0|really nice product
1|5.0|Its worth money !!!
0|5.0|Vere Nice hand set.
0|5.0|I want white colour
0|1.0|No memory card sold
0|5.0|the best phone ever
0|1.0|My friend not happy
1|1.0|Lots of wifi issues
0|5.0|Value for money....
1|4.0|nice phone to have.
1|5.0|Worth for Money !!!
0|5.0|Best mobile in segment in price, camera, processor, disply, ram, rom, dual 4g etc with any other mobile with the same features Before this i have used motorola samsung sony motog videocon and many more i totally satisfied till today not saying for feauture At latest i am using motog before thisone At time of delivery unfortnatelly i disturb becoz of delivery boy as he deliver one day late and at my place delivery not by amazon before this product i get totally product at my own house i have to order it at my relative address and city so my advice to delivery made through all place plz amazon
0|1.0|BAD
0|5.0|Amazing Mi phone, Slimmer than I phone 5. Very smooth interface thanks to MIUI6. Interface is very intuitive as compared to the other mobiles with stock android versions. Best screen (it really gives competition to I phone retina display). You will keep on looking at the gorgeous screen. Great visibility under direct sunlight. Antutu score of 40,000 + beats most of the mid range mobiles of Samsung & Sony. No heating issue encountered yet. Nice camera, with good interface. Only shortcoming is user available disk space of 10.5 GB but it should not be a deal breaker.
0|1.0|VERY BAD MI4I PHONE MY PHONE IS PURCHASE IN 1 MONTHS THAN NOT RECIVERD NETWORK PROBLEM THIS PROBLE
1|1.0|Front Camera not working properly, Sim2 automatically removed/blocked. Don't buy this product.
0|5.0|Very nice mobile..
0|5.0|It is awesome.....
0|5.0|it's awesome......
0|4.0|Es price me mast h
0|5.0|Nice fast delivert
0|5.0|Better than Iphone
0|2.0|Heating Problem...
1|5.0|Too Good mobile...
0|2.0|Sometimes it hangs
1|5.0|More than expected
0|5.0|Verry good product
0|5.0|its really awesome
0|5.0|works fantastic :)
0|4.0|Awesome phone!!!!!
0|5.0|GREATTT PHONE.....
1|1.0|Camera not working
0|3.0|I was seeing 32 gb
0|1.0|it stopped working
0|4.0|best ph. go for it
1|4.0|Very nice phone. Totally worth it. Just that it heats a little bit more than comfortable limit.
0|5.0|Dear All, i am happy that the delivery has happens on time, but unfortunately with in 24hrs the Mobile has s/w problem which has identified by the Mi Service Center. At the same time i spoke to your representative in the morning by 10.15 am approx and confirmed about the return and replacement. like wise i could see the update on your website says that your team will pickup the pack tomorrow between 9 to 13 (27.09.2015). i am ready to give the entire pack back. but this is the first time i am buying mobile through online, i would expect your support to replace it asap.
0|3.0|I have been using MI4I since last 20 days. Delivery of amazon was poor. Let discuss about device Look is very pretty . Light weight . Display is good even in sunlight. Front camera is very clear but rather slow than rear. Clearty of back camera is good when we zoom the picture pixles somehow scattered. Processor is quite slow. There are problems in light buttons sometimes means they are not work sometime. Overall fone is good but it could be better in this price acording to brand in terms of processing.
0|1.0|It is a bad. Phon
0|5.0|Very GOOD Phone..
1|1.0|Emage not roteted
0|4.0|Nice phone.......
0|4.0|It's a nice phone
0|5.0|It's good to have
0|4.0|Nice mobile phone
0|5.0|Very good product
0|4.0|Excellent Phone!
0|5.0|So far I am happy
0|5.0|Excellent Servise
0|3.0|It is really nice
0|5.0|I love this phome
0|4.0|Nice phone.......
0|2.0|Software issue...
0|4.0|Its a good phone.
0|5.0|Excellent mobiles
0|5.0|Good Product...:)
0|5.0|Good...keep it up
0|4.0|Over All good buy
0|3.0|Is mi4i strucking
0|1.0|software problems
0|4.0|It's delighted me
0|5.0|very good product
0|1.0|No hand set given
1|5.0|16Gb Variant is just awesome with only draw back that the storage is not expandanle. Smooth performance Yes. It is not just Storage Capacity which is varying. performance also. I used both mobile and just for safe side I kept 32 GB. But believe the 32 GB capacity is not optimized well. phone lags a lot. it appears as if a huge memory card has been inserted in a low RAM phone. So if you are, like me, just by spending 2000 extra you get GB extra so you are wrong the 32 GB is lagging like hell
0|1.0|Very poor performance, suggest not take this product. Calls getting disconnected.
0|5.0|Phone look elegant and UI seems to be great , though there are many reviews says the UI not great. * Expected more local space , I see almost 6 GB Occupied and leaving only 10 GB for the users * Unable to detach the battery (Its not a major concern though) * Could have been a better metallic shining finish * This phone comes without ear phone and you have to buy separate * No external memory card insert (should have considered the 2nd SIM card to act as MicroSD Storage as Optional)
0|3.0|The phone is just satisfactory. Pros(Many) Heating issues. Software runs on its own. Even if you are not clicking anything then also it is running on its own. Major issue: Replacement Policy, only 10 days, while you can get the same price on FLIPKART and also with a 30 day REPLACEMENT GUARANTEE. in the first 10 days the phone usually doesn't show any demerits but you get to see these only after using the phone for a while. Cons(ONLY ONE) I did get the product by the delivery date.
0|5.0|Gr8 performance.
0|3.0|It hangs at time
0|4.0|Phone is good...
0|5.0|Very nice deal..
0|5.0|Camera is superb
0|2.0|I don't like it.
0|5.0|Very Nice mobile
0|5.0|Excellent phone.
0|5.0|Fantastic Phone.
0|5.0|Awesome mobile..
0|5.0|Very good Phone.
0|5.0|Worth the price.
0|5.0|Very nice mobile
0|4.0|Good performance
0|5.0|awesome phone...
1|5.0|awesm...very gud
0|5.0|Love the product
0|5.0|Really good one.
0|5.0|Superb product..
0|5.0|Worth the money.
0|4.0|Good performance
0|5.0|It's toooo goood
0|1.0|Dual sim functionality doesn't work. Its the worst phone I have bought till date.
1|1.0|Does NOT meet our expectations. The company should mention the actual space available for the customer instead of the total memory space. Although it is mentioned in the full specification yet Mi 4i (16 GB) should have been mentioned as Mi 4i (10 GB). This would give a clear picture. Not fully 5" as mentioned. Software doesn't read the musics saved under the head ringtones in the phone. Would prefer not to buy and suggest the same. May be it is I Phone of China........But This is India
0|5.0|I have just used for 3 days..My experience is quite good.. I have updated the software to latest version.. - no heating issue - no sound/volume problem - camera is good - after update only 9GB available for user - it only support micro sim so get you sim replaced to micro one if planning to buy this (some old sim like Airtel magic etc cannot be cut to make it micro sim) Another thing about Amazon. if you order it with normal delivery then it takes 5-7 days for delivery.
0|4.0|I purchased it last month, Phone is really good, Specially camera and display is awesome, Even phone looks very sleek and stylish too.. All other processing also good, Except one issue, Phone is getting heat while browsing data from SIM card, While using WiFi no heat observe in phone, Other there is no heating like on long call etc.. After update new MIUI Version 6.7.2.0 also no improvement. If any body have any solution please revert......
0|5.0|Nice product...
0|5.0|Very nice phone
1|4.0|Value of money.
1|5.0|So far so good.
0|5.0|The great phone
0|5.0|Very Good Phone
0|2.0|Hangs too much.
0|4.0|Value for money
0|5.0|Excellent phone
0|4.0|Value for money
0|5.0|Very nice phone
0|5.0|Very nice phone
0|5.0|Awesome phone..
0|5.0|Best phone ever
0|4.0|VALUE FOR MONEY
0|5.0|Love the mobile
0|5.0|It's amazing...
0|5.0|Value for money
0|5.0|Worth for money
0|5.0|Just Awesome :)
1|5.0|goog handset...
0|5.0|Fantastic phone
0|5.0|Excellent Phone
0|5.0|Product is nice
0|5.0|Its amazing....
0|5.0|Simply the Best
0|4.0|Its Loking Good
0|1.0|Heating problem
0|4.0|Excellent phone
0|4.0|excellent phone
0|5.0|very nice phone
0|5.0|Value for money
0|5.0|Value for money
1|5.0|Amazing phone..
0|1.0|Missing charger
1|5.0|Its wow product
0|5.0|Mi4i best phone
0|5.0|Awesome Product
0|1.0|Not good mobile
1|4.0|Its been a month that I have bought this phone. Its a lovely phone. Light and sleek! The battery back up is good, goes on easily for a whole day! i have not faced the heating problem with this handset as of now. Screen clarity and resolution is extremely good. Sound quality is amazing. It works with DUAL SIM perfectly. Its absolutely value for money phone. Only problem I am facing is the radio - it suddenly goes off!
1|1.0|Very poor performance as expected from Chinese brand Xiaomi. No earphone volume while making a call and the other person is not able to hear the person speaking through this mobile. Also, the volume of this phone is too low to hear and hence you may miss many calls when outdoors or in public areas. If spending 13K is an option, better to go with Samsung J5 or rather J7. Best phone in this price range and much better user friendly experience.
0|1.0|I m facing difficulty while calling it is discounting time and again.
1|4.0|Nic phone good camera but no xpendel mamory cart battey backup normal
1|1.0|All that Glitters is not Gold. The same is true for Mi4i as well. Mi4i become hot when used for gaming. The speakers volume is very less if you want to enjoy music from the device without any ear phones. It hangs as well. The touch is not so good. Overall this seems the worse phone from Mi. So if you want to buy it think 10 times, it would be better if you could go with Moto g or any other phone which is cheaper and better in performance.
0|5.0|good phone....
0|5.0|Very nice set.
0|4.0|Value of money
0|1.0|Very very bad
0|5.0|Great phone...
0|4.0|very nice deal
0|5.0|very very good
0|4.0|Excellent ....
1|4.0|Sometimes Hang
0|5.0|Good Product .
0|5.0|So far so good
0|5.0|Great phone...
0|4.0|Good deleivery
0|5.0|Simply awsm...
0|5.0|GOOD FOR MONEY
0|1.0|Hangs too much
0|5.0|Excellent ever
0|5.0|Cost wise I feel that it should drop down to 9990 Baki performance main to Baap hai in all sector of smart phone
0|5.0|Awesome phone.
0|4.0|Awesome mobile
0|4.0|Great phone :)
0|5.0|Nice one......
0|5.0|The phone is too good, classic. Very fast, rich UI. The front and back camera is superb, shots are rich in colors. Selfies are treat to see the clarify. Slim design, light weight, great customization features as how a user needs. The packaging is really neat, amazon is really awesome. I have heard amazon has great return back policy, hence chosen amazon. The phone has no heating issues, runs smoothly and fast.
0|5.0|Excellent phone.. It uplift my image when carrying very slim and user friendly... Only thing is of we use multiple app it gets heats up but that won't be an issue if I buy a flip cover.. Camera quality is marvellous... Superb phone.. Only disadvantage is no head phone... No need to install any app as most of regular using app are in built... 16 fb is enough I believe as I upload all photos to Google photos automatically
0|2.0|I have purchased on 13th october but i have received faulty product i guess because after the update to MIUI 7 whenever i put on charge sometimes the battery symbol disappears and sometimes on display some thick lines are shown of various colors which automatically disappears after the screen is unlock so i have requested return of the product. service of amazon is very helpful they assisted me regarding the return.
0|5.0|Ten days in use n the product is just fantastic,very light in weight, though a little heating issues but I guess its same as other phones, I used to use motog 1st gen an still use it as its as good as new, hope it gives good service like my old phone,at to learn lot about it.amazon is just fantastic though took ten days to deliver. As far as return policy amazon is simply fantastic!!!as I say it with experience!!!
0|3.0|The best camera phone under 30K, but don't buy this hearing the name, the real Mi4 is a beast. The performance of this one is nowhere compared to Mi4 (Other than in camera and Display).. Positives: *Display ( Vibrant and Great contrast (even better than Mi4)) *Cameras (The best camera in market now, no doubt), front cam also very good. *MIUI (The UI is customizable and is beautiful) *No Heating after updates. Negatives: *Battery backup very normal (don't expect a long battery life even though the battery is 3100+ mah) *Dont expect the performance of an octa core Flagship device *Irritating UI lags (May be updates will fix this in future) *Buggy Lollipop
0|5.0|Amazon is amzing in delivery. Got the product on next day of order date. Wow, thank you Amazon for caring to your customer. About product: As we know this phone from Xiaomi is excellent in Overall Rating. I will give 10/10 on design/prize/Performance. Comparing the phone with HTC826 and Moto X this is a must buy. I have opted blue colour which Looks primium Quality. .
0|5.0|Awesome phone
0|4.0|Nice products
0|4.0|Very good....
0|5.0|Amazing Phone
1|5.0|Mobile superb
0|2.0|Not satisfied
0|4.0|its very good
0|4.0|Best in Class
0|4.0|Good Product.
0|5.0|nice products
0|5.0|It is Good :)
0|5.0|super workong
0|4.0|Awesome phone
0|2.0|Not upto mark
0|4.0|Awesome phone
0|5.0|Nice Product.
0|2.0|Heating issue
0|5.0|Great product
0|5.0|1 no phone Hi
0|4.0|awesome phone
1|5.0|Xiaomi Rocks!
0|2.0|Not satisfied
0|5.0|Awesome phone
0|1.0|Very very bad
0|5.0|Amazing phone
0|4.0|Superb mobile
0|4.0|Overall good.
0|3.0|nice phone...
0|4.0|amezing phone
0|5.0|Simply superb
0|1.0|Local charger
0|5.0|Amazing phone
0|4.0|great display
0|5.0|Best 5 stare
0|4.0|Good and best
0|5.0|Awesome Phone
0|2.0|It gets hot..
0|5.0|Amazing phone
0|4.0|Good products
1|5.0|Waiting......
1|5.0|Goooooooooood
0|3.0|hotspot issue
1|5.0|okkkk niceeee
0|3.0|heating issue
0|5.0|Good phone !!
0|1.0|Very slow mbl
0|5.0|amazing price
0|5.0|Superb phone.
1|4.0|i am got 3050 mah battery but in the specs it was 3120 mah
0|1.0|1.battery backup is very low and also taking too much time to full charge the battery 2.touch doesn't work properly, double tap zoom of image doesn't work 3.there is lag at the time of playing full HD video,gaming ,sometimes mobile is hangup 4.task manager doesn't work 5.overheating issue also take place 6.I am toomuch disappointed in the poor packaging of the mobile by Amazon
1|1.0|Don't buy it
0|4.0|Good device.
0|5.0|it's amazing
0|5.0|Good product
0|5.0|Nice product
0|4.0|nice product
0|4.0|good product
0|4.0|Yaa its good
0|4.0|Good product what about the cashback
0|4.0|Nice Product
0|3.0|Satisfactory
0|3.0|Good product
0|5.0|i love it ..
0|5.0|Worth to buy
0|5.0|Super mobile
1|5.0|Worth buying
1|5.0|nice phone..
0|4.0|Satisfactory
0|5.0|It's Awesome
0|5.0|Nice product
0|4.0|Nice product
0|5.0|Good product
0|5.0|The best one
0|5.0|Nice Product
0|5.0|It's awesome
0|3.0|Okay product
0|5.0|Good product
0|4.0|Good product
0|5.0|Satisfactory
0|5.0|Nice Product
1|5.0|Heat problem
0|5.0|Nice Product
0|5.0|Good product
1|1.0|Don't buy it
0|4.0|Nice product
0|5.0|Happieee :-)
0|4.0|nice product
0|5.0|Awesome...:)
0|4.0|Phone is ok.
0|3.0|ok satisfied
0|5.0|GOOD PRODUCT
1|1.0|faltu phone and hangs all the time don' buy this phone
1|1.0|Please do not purchase any mi phone threa is not service center in Punjab .my mi 4i phone screen has broken accidentally in may month but till date there is no screen available anywhere in Punjab till date . there is very con's. in phone 1heating problem , battery discharge very fast .lake of space always mobile show out of storage space
0|1.0|Delivery was quick but having issue with phone operation as task button gets activated automatically when I am using any other application and gets pressed 6 to 7 times by its own. The issue started in just 4 days of purchase. Really not satisfied with the product delivered. Please resolve the issue on top priority.
0|2.0|Battery Backup problem and phone is over heating
0|5.0|Nice mobile
1|4.0|Friendly...
0|4.0|All is well
1|5.0|Excellent!!
0|3.0|Average....
0|3.0|But not bad
0|3.0|Good phone
0|4.0|Great phone
0|4.0|It was good
0|5.0|Really good
0|5.0|Gud product
0|5.0|Great Phone
0|5.0|Best device
0|4.0|Awesome!!!!
0|3.0|Good mobile
0|5.0|Really Nice
1|5.0|Good...!!!!
0|5.0|Great phone
0|4.0|Good mobile
1|1.0|Review is 2
0|4.0|Nice .good.
0|4.0|Super mi 4i
0|5.0|good mobile
0|4.0|Awesome phn
0|5.0|Nice Phone.
1|4.0|coool phone
0|4.0|Nice phone.
0|1.0|Not working
0|5.0|nice mobile
0|4.0|Good camera
0|5.0|Nice phone.
1|4.0|Camera good
0|5.0|Best Mobile
0|5.0|Super phone
0|5.0|Best Mobile
0|4.0|It was good
1|5.0|Good smrtph
0|4.0|It was good
0|5.0|good mobile
0|5.0|xlent phone
1|5.0|Paisa vasul
0|5.0|Best mobile
0|4.0|Nice model.
0|5.0|Kadak phone
0|4.0|Nice mobile
0|4.0|Good phone.
0|1.0|it heats a lot and heats at the top side. It is difficult to hold and impossible to put near the ear and face. MI Service also didn't replaced it . As per Mi Service Center ; 45 degree is normal. Amazon too refused to help after 14 days. No help even after Upgrade it to MIUI 7 Waste of Money.
1|1.0|The phone overheats a lot even if you unlock the screen and use it to check your messages. Gave 1 star because of its display and camera. What's the use if phone has all the features and feels uncomfortable to hold and use coz of heating issue.. Even after the update the phone heats Plz don't buy it ull regret
0|3.0|I hv booked & purchased today one mobile mi 4i 16gb white color at 9999/- But I hv not done thru the Amazon app. Payment mode was thru hdfc netbanking. Kindly let me know that whether I will be applicable for the cash back offer of 15 to 10% thru hdfc debit card or not. Else I want to cancel this order.
1|1.0|Terrible phone. Its been less than 3 months since I bought this phone and I am already forced to look for another one. The phone hangs randomly at any time and keeps rebooting by itself. Only reason I am giving it 1 star is because of the camera. Both front and rear camera give excellent picture quality.
0|4.0|I bought this phone one month back based on that am writing review. Look ----5/5 Battery----4/5 Camera ----5/5 Over all mi4i is the good product to buy in the latest models. Note:But by playing heavy games and using continuous internet facing some heat problem.
0|3.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|It is good
0|5.0|It's great
0|4.0|phn is gud
0|5.0|nice pbone
0|3.0|Nice phone
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|NICE PHONE
0|5.0|Nice Phone
0|4.0|good phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Good Phone
0|4.0|Good phone
0|4.0|Nice phone
0|5.0|Very super
0|5.0|Good phone
0|3.0|Hangs alot
1|5.0|good phone
0|4.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|Good phone
0|3.0|Nice .....
0|2.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|4.0|nice phone
0|5.0|Nice Phone
0|4.0|Best phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|Nice......
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|Nice......
0|3.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|3.0|Nice phone
1|5.0|GOOD PHONE
0|4.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Great deal
0|5.0|Awesome...
0|4.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|4.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|4.0|good phone
0|4.0|Nice phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|4.0|Good phone
0|5.0|Good phone
0|5.0|nice phone
0|4.0|Nice pices
0|5.0|nice phone
0|5.0|Nice phone
0|3.0|Gud mobile
0|4.0|NICE PHONE
0|5.0|super&good
0|5.0|Zaakas!!!!
0|4.0|nice phone
1|4.0|It is total value for money.It lags a little bit sometimes while multitasking but definitely not to a level of irritation.The screen display and cameta are definitely beyond its price range.A lot of features and interface can be compared to i-phone.overall it has been a nice experience.
0|4.0|This piece of gadget is nice....liked it.
0|4.0|Nice phone no problem occur.. Go for it
1|1.0|Excessive Heating Issue. Wont recommend
1|4.0|From Last two days am using mi 4i phone . It is very good phone for who are looking for budget phone with all features. But only one dissatisfaction is there no expandable memory . While getting charging slightly heating. But with in our budget limit it very good phone.
0|5.0|Excellent
0|4.0|Wonderful
1|5.0|superrrrr
0|5.0|I love it
0|4.0|Very good
0|4.0|Very nice
0|4.0|Very Nice
0|4.0|Very good
0|5.0|very good
0|4.0|very good
0|5.0|I like it
0|4.0|very good
0|5.0|Very nice
0|5.0|Yery good
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|Very fine
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|I like it
0|5.0|I LOVE IT
0|4.0|good nice
0|4.0|Gud phone
1|5.0|Nice look
0|5.0|EXCELLENT
0|2.0|Not great
1|5.0|Worthable
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|i like it
0|5.0|very good
0|4.0|Good deal
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|gr8 phn !
1|5.0|Dangerous
0|5.0|very good
1|5.0|Mi4i good
0|5.0|excellent
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|Very nice
1|5.0|Good.....
0|5.0|Excellent
0|4.0|it's good
0|4.0|Very good
0|5.0|Good deal
0|4.0|NYC phone
1|5.0|It's ok..
0|3.0|Good one.
0|5.0|Very nice
0|4.0|excellent
0|5.0|Excellent
0|5.0|very nice
0|5.0|itss good
0|5.0|Excellent
0|1.0|Headphone is not their in mobile box
1|4.0|very good sound is quite less than moto g and also heats up a little but all that get covers by awesome UI and processor speed
1|1.0|Please don't but any electronics item from Amazon. I have ordered this phone. And it just doesn't work. Tried returning. But even failed to do so. Tried contacting Amazon but all in vain. And now I m just attack with this defected piece.
0|1.0|Worst mobile ever heating hanging no expendable slot.. slow after 15 day use...instead of buying this bulls*** u buy s4 or note 3 neo
0|2.0|Volume is Too Low.. i can't even hear Ringtone... I miss lots of phones just because volume is very low... rest everything is fine.. but Volume is the main thing.... its irritating when people say that u don't pick my call.... bull s***....
0|5.0|Thank you for doing great job..ya
0|5.0|Its the fastest phone I ever used
0|4.0|Pros Amazing camera quality Compact Stylish Awsum display Battery charge lasts long Cons Sometimes its perform slow Loud speaker must be loud Heating issue No headset inside box
0|3.0|Slim, nice color, cute look, perfect display size, picture clarity awesome, and operations are easy, too. Cons are its poor sound quality while ringing and listening to someone on speaker phone, and 16MB unexpandable memory.
1|4.0|Not good
0|4.0|good one
0|5.0|Good one
1|5.0|The Best
0|5.0|Too good
1|4.0|Its good
0|5.0|Nice one
0|5.0|briliant
0|5.0|Super...
0|3.0|Nice one
0|5.0|Good buy
0|3.0|Nagendra
0|5.0|nice one
0|3.0|just ok.
0|4.0|Good one
0|5.0|Nice psc
0|5.0|Too good
1|5.0|i got it
0|4.0|Good one
0|5.0|love it.
0|5.0|Too good
0|4.0|Good One
0|4.0|Good one
0|4.0|Good one
0|4.0|Vare fin
0|5.0|Nice PC.
0|5.0|Exellent
0|4.0|Good one
0|1.0|The product was not good ,not wrkng properly.. cracked product!! !!heat problem, Unsatisfied.... product Niethr u r receivng d calls nor it is being replaced ... folder is immpossibl to get .. plz reply soon..!
1|2.0|I am using mi4i (white).Indoor images through front camera not clear and full of dots. Many user has posted review in this regard on miui site. Even after updating the phone to latest vesron 6.6.6 the problem continue.
0|1.0|Worst handset I have ever used
0|4.0|I got one problem in handset ..while i m calling to my contact screen can be automatically diesabled..after the call ending screen auto enabled....so how can i solve this problem? Can i replace ?or anything else?
0|5.0|STUNNING USER INTERFACE, BEST CAMERA PERFORMANCE, VERY HIGH 441 ppi RESOLUTION in comparison to other phones of same in market.16 Gb internal storage does not disappoint you much if you are not HIGH HD GAME ADDICTED.
0|5.0|I ordered this phone and got in 18hrs of purchase it is the best phone and most important amazon is better than any of snapdeal or flapkart it has the best product at cheap rates . Gud job amazon keep it up
0|1.0|Lots of bloatware - rather mi crapware . YUCK. Lags like hell... General UI performance is much worse the Moto G 2012. Lots of bugs. Memory management issues. You get what you pay for I guess,
0|1.0|Apart from camera & its look,phone is a total waste of money. After 8th day of the purchase phone started hangs,battery was worst,Ram claimed to be 2GB but After using 2-3 apps it remained 300-400 mb free.
0|2.0|Do not buy this device. All specs are good. but heating is the main issue.if you are living in a place where temperature raising more than 27 degrees, then the phone will get hanged. if you use the camera in this temperature you will feel the hanging issue very well. I using this device for the last 5 months. I spend almost 10 hours in my air conditioned office. so that time am not felt any big issues . but in the daytime outside its very bad. even i cannot pick a call because of heat issue. And also the network issue is there. You cannot get uninterrupted network from this device. I am using airtel 3g and my friends also using airtel 3g but they were able to browse simply.I bought the device from flipkart. And am living in Kerala State.
0|1.0|1
1|5.0|For 1st two, three days it gives heat problem, but after using after 2-3 day's it works very smooth. If someone come across a heating issue, be patient and use for 4-4 days. Also update verion to 7
0|4.0|All things are best Cons: Camera is nice but captures red eye pictures in low light Limited storage Less then 50% is available for user. Occasional software crash.
1|1.0|Bakbaw ...sala.. Mi ..zero star ..battery so poor... Mat Lena Bhai..Hindi mai samjha raha hoon.
0|5.0|awesome
1|5.0|Ok fine
0|5.0|Superb.
0|5.0|Awesome
0|5.0|awesome
0|4.0|Not bad
0|4.0|Awesome
0|5.0|Exilent
0|5.0|exllent
0|5.0|Love it
1|5.0|V good.
0|5.0|awesome
0|5.0|Awesome
0|5.0|Awesome
1|5.0|Osum aa
0|4.0|Good on
0|5.0|Awesome
0|5.0|Awesome
1|4.0|Vry nyc
0|4.0|I was using 15 day phone was awesome display and camera and the delivery was an speed in the review most of tell about the phone heating that was true in the 16 was not enough
0|5.0|MI4i is a born star, with great built quality, It give a premium phone feeling. there is a little bit of Heating this phone but it is a great choice. And now available on Amazon.in, they have fast delivery and best return policies. And Install CyanogenMod In it ......... speed will be way fast and cool heating will also reduce.
0|4.0|This is it if you are looking for a phone under 15 k and 5inch screen. Sleek design, very very nice camera especially the front one. And after the miui update it doesnt get heated up.
0|5.0|I think its been compared to iphone 5 the features almost similar to it though this phone is 3 times lessor than the price of iphone..Happy so far Waiting for the MI 5 version
1|2.0|Phone is not good as I thought, all browser are not gd, camera is not gd, it is not a worth of 10k. Better phones are available below this price. I wish if I can return it.
0|4.0|I just very much its very fast internet opening With so many features I felt very happy with this product Thank you amazon for my budget Price
0|3.0|This memory card DOES NOT have memory card slot. Otherwise it's a good phone.
0|5.0|Beats Moto G 3rd gen with display clarity, power backup, & design! Camera clarity in low light is superb. Better carry an otg pen drive for movies and stuff
0|5.0|Superb
0|4.0|Gd one
0|2.0|Heater
0|4.0|Gd one
0|5.0|Thanks
0|5.0|Awasom
0|5.0|Awsome
0|4.0|nice..
0|1.0|So bad
0|5.0|Superb
0|5.0|?awsum
0|5.0|Superb
1|4.0|Avareg
0|5.0|Superb
0|5.0|C good
0|5.0|Superb
1|5.0|Really good phone ever.no heating no hanging nothing.Beautiful Phone by xaiomi ,i also seen other reviews in amazon,flipkart,snapdeal,most of them said heat
0|1.0|The cheated with the screen they said corning glass by when i drop my phone From a 30 cm distance it broke the screen and the phone is one day guest
0|4.0|No headphones available with this handset. Overall good phone.
0|1.0|Good looking, slim, and having gud structure....but it has a huge problem.... Always hanging issue... Whenever not charging and loud speaker not working.. After factory reset it become normal.... But hang issue same.... At a glance it's a very wrost product, mobile whole system is not working properly... The day before I visited it's service centre and they update it's software even same problem.... And second huge problem, it's net surfing speed is too slow..... Needs high speed WiFi.....
1|1.0|Very bad 1-so lagging 2-heating issue 3-dramayically takes large memory space for apps like 8 mb apps space for 1.2 mb large Opera mini
0|4.0|I bought this product twice and both time I have to replace because of defect . Only single call your mobile will be replaced. Good service by Amazon
0|3.0|Performance is good, but I would have opted for 32 GB as in 16 GB, phone and OS uses more internal space which leaves me only around 12GB of space
1|1.0|Refurbished means its not new mobile ,it has been return from 1st customer due to some problem and its unboxed means Refurbished understand...
0|1.0|Very bad experience. Sound system is very poor, within few days it went down (volume fluctuate by its own). Phone is response very slow.
1|1.0|Don't buy Mi products, it is waste one. I bought mi 4i last may month, so for my Mi 4i display broken 2 time, each time I spent Rs 4000.
0|3.0|Good but not 100 percent......hanging and often ask to stop the app due to unexpected error. If amazon help me out that would be great.
0|2.0|Not at all happy with the product. Need few more days to right a perfect review for the Product. Mi 3 was definitely better then Mi 4i.
