Awesome phone...no lags..no heating problem...great UI....  + Battery + Camera(front n rear) + UI + SCREEN :} + NO LAGS  - No headphones - lack of accessories in market  IMPORTANT POINT: Update your phone before using it, there is a update of 800mb. IT WILL SOLVE THE HEATING ISSUE ETC.....
Overheating?: I was initially concerned about the reports of overheating from reviews on FK as well as from some reviewers. After using the phone for a few days I have not experienced any overheating. Like all phones, it gets a bit warm if you use it while charging and also for highly intensive games. But even during gaming, it never got too hot, just slightly warm. This is on Asphalt 8, Subway Surfers and Clash of Clans.  Design: The device feels extremely great in your hand, even better than the Mi 3 and much nicer than the bigger phablets like Zenfone 2 and Honor 4x. The matte finish make the device feel premium. Every person I have shown my phone to has first commented on how light it feels, but also remarked how solid it is.  Battery: The battery has been great, easily lasts me a day with some room to spare.  Display: This is the main reason why I decided to buy the Mi 4i. The display is unparalleled in this price range and even in 20k+ devices. 1080p display just looks beautiful. The Corning OGS glass is same as GG 3 and makes me feel safe with my purchase. Also, I thought Sunlight Display was just a marketing gimmick, but it actually makes it easier to use my phone outdoors.  Performance: Really love the performance of this phone. There are some minor lags after playing games for 30min+. Once the device cools down again it works as normal.  Overall: Best phone since Mi 3. Don't believe the overheating reports until you actually use the phone. I was worried after watching a YouTube video showing really bad overheating, but he switched on performance mode. I have not seen any overheating in default mode and am still able to play all the games I want.
It's just awesome... they said it's a "FLAGSHIP" mobile...it's definitely true. only con i prefer to say is heating issue. when a game app runs is background..mob is started to heat...other than that...this mobile is fantastic and lovely... pros: >superb selfie cam(5mp) and 13mp jst awe me... >outer look >MIUI simply great >all the ETC...they said in specification...
Phone is pretty good !!!!  No abnormal heating and the heat it generates is normal for a phone of this Kind !!!  First Xiaomi Product !!! Happy with the performance !!!  Camera beyond my expectations !!!! Total worth for money !!!  Only concern is Service centers !!!! Hope ill not get any issues atleast for an year until I get another one !!!!
Final Verdict: Go for it !!!!  First thought: I'm writing this review after using Mi4i for 2 days. After unboxing, the first thing that caught my attention were the build quality, ergonomic feel and light weightiness of the device.  What a display: The display is exceptionally good and smooth to touch. The colors and resolution is amazing at this price point.  Although, i haven't tried any high performance games yet, there are no lags or performance failure.  Heating??? Nah, just warming up for normal people like me!! Felt warm initially, but after updating the software (to MIUI 6.5.3.0), it hasn't felt any warmer than any other device people are using these days. If you put pressure on the processor, which smartphone would stay cool? Please don't ask for a BMW at the price of a Honda City.  The battery does hold up for a day and a half at normal usage. All in all, i would recommend this phone to anyone thinking to go to the next step from below 10k devices. The device you're getting is worth every penny!
This is my 1st Xiaomi MI4i, i was a user of Samsung Note 3 & iPhone 5s. MI4i and excellent phone, Its flawless in every aspect. Please go for it. Well, 16GB is enough for storing songs 600mp3 and 30mp4 videos. Many people have complain about heating isue.Lets come to me perception , people who r saying its getting heated up during 1st boot& setting up the phone for the 1st time. i guess they haven't use any smart phone either. Its obvious while booting for the 1st time any phone will get heated up. Because all the applications will be running along with WIFI with highest performing speed to update apps UI, screen will be light-up for long time. Charging for 1st time may heat up a bit. leave the phone to get fully charged. use it for a day or 2. Turn off the 4G LTE, always use GSM for better call connectivity and a great battery life. . Turn on for G when it requires. i bet , you are not going to face heating issue . At least i am not facing any heating issue.
First of all, This is my 3rd Mi mobile. Configuration- Good- People say it is average as they compare it with high end mobile, Ofcourse you will get good config if you send more money Heating problem- Remember, Phone is a phone- it is neither a SLR camera nor XBox. Let expert do its work. there is no substitute for one another. Would you feel the same confort of the car in BMW bike of the same cost, not for sure the reason is both are meant for a different purpose. same is the case with phone. If you need 3 hour gaming and do not want your phone to heat then go buy XBOX :) Battery- no complaints- as they claim 40% in one hour- Thats pretty fair. Mi Ui is awsum Micromax has long way to catch up with Mi, unless they come up with something innovative.  all and all- very good mobile under this price band and definitely a good compition to Sony and samsung.
After doing research on the latest phones , I bought this phone.  Review of mi 4i after upgrading to 6.5.5 MIUI stable version  PROS: Build is perfect for usage as well to place in pocket Amazing Screen Good battery life High speed network connectivity in performance mode(better than iphone6 in my test) HDR Photos are very good at its price range Got it for Rs,11,700 in Flipkart during offer days with 24-hour delivery One hand usage is good.  CONS: Slight warm on continuous use of 20 min or more Volume and Power buttons are sharp at the corners(doesn't feel premium) Plastic body feels delicate, especially if you have kids Micro USB connector is not comfortable while plugging in or removing the pin(very tight) Limited memory Loud Speaker is not great; OK sound 1 GB is used by MIUI and if you open a couple of apps, the remaining RAM shows 700MB(RAM is not being used optimally)  Some Observations in my usage  Ran Antutu BenchMark Tests after OS upgrade: balanced mode 31k performance mode 39k  Used the phone extensively in balanced mode Full battery got charged in less than 3 hrs with the 2A charger given along with the phone When using the camera/browsing/gaming for 30 min makes the phone warm (Not heating); Same thing observed in my htc also; felt not a problem  Basic camera settings doesn't give very good photos; need to do small changes for good photos  FaceBook app hanged once in my use.  Network speed is amazingly fast (compared to my htc one X and iphone6)  Screen looks little dull at 50% brightness compared to other phones at same brightness level  Ran few games like temple run without any issues  Loud speaker sound is on the lower side  Receiver sound during calls also is not on the higher side; It is Ok  1 GB RAM is always used by MIUI; only 900MB to 1 GB left for the user. If you open large number of apps, may be a problem; Tried with 7 to 8 apps, no issues.  Ran Asphalt8 for 10 min in balanced mode; didn't face any UI lags; but the device became warm beside the camera, checked the temp - it is around 40 (same thing on my htc was 40, but because of the material and build, i dont feel it much on my htc) may be because of the chipset density and octa core in mi 4i,so i am feeling 40 also as light heat on the outside.
Has anybody received an 800MB+ update to MIUI?? I applied the update as soon as unboxing the Mobile.  The mobile then went into a Reboot over-drive. It started rebooting every now and then while its opening Whatsapp or Camera usage or Settings menu etc. Have to call and file for a exchange.  Did anyone else face a similar issue? Do report it here.  The mobile is nice by the way. For the price this is easily the best compact 5inch mobile u can buy with acceptable performance, camera and battery life.
Been using it for the last one week. Got it in the 1st flash sale. Here are my reviews: Pros: 1. Crisp and bright display. Looks gr8 in sunlight as well 2. Gr8 camera - works perfect in daylight but a bit disappointing in night mode 3. Superb looks - sleek uni body and one hand use makes it feel rich. Cons: 1. MIUI is bit unfriendly for new users.. It will take you some time to get used to it. 2. App crashes made me disappoint - Gallery with Slide show crashed for me once and Data Usage app never launches! 3. Chinese text usage is some widgets and alerts - Learn Chinese before using this phone. I hope the new updates fix some of these. Don't worry about the battery heating - if its running - its got to be sweating! :) All phones have heating issues. This is no different. My brother got an ASUS Zenphone 2 (12999) at the same time and when compared - both gadgets have their good and bad. If you are looking for light weight - one hand use - happy with 16 g internal without an external memory - go for MI4i. If you need big display - better battery (asus has an ultra-saving battery mode that lasts the phone for up to 2 days) - regular android UI experience - go for ASUS
I have been using this product for 2 days and its the review based of the 2 days of usage  1.Its heats up like anything even for normal Browser usage  2.battery backup is about 1 day 4 hours with Single Sim (2G) and wifi on continuously on single charge,with minimal usage i.e 1 hour youtube,minimal calls and other Social Networking etc.  3.The call clarity is awesome, the sound is clear and crisp,but after making calls for 22 minutes continuously,I felt unusual heating near the earphone thats very irritating.  4.There is bit of Lag in the UI,can't be sensed so easily ( I felt lag while toggling from one app to other) hope Mi would come with an OTA for this  5.At the first Boot I got a Ram of 1Gb from 2GB,but during usage after killing all apps u get something close to 800 mb ram.  6.At the first Boot the internal Storage of the phone was close to 10.6 Gb after removing unnecessary preinstalled apps the memory came up to 11.45 GB (with NO other apps loaded) since there is no Option for memory card you have to keep a Pendrive with you and transfer your clicked photos via OTG.  7.the camera is descent takes good photograph,but there is lot of noise in low light conditions,which will literally spoil the pics,so this phone doesn't perform well in Low light  8.Gaming was just Ok with too much heating,there is something strange in Mi 4i that even the Screen heats up dangerously.  9.The tall claim of Xiaomi as flagship device for India is'nt apparent after using the Phone  verdict: If heating and short memory storage is'nt an issue the phone is the best.hope xiaomi will come with an OTA in order to curb the heating issue.
Look & Feel :Excellent Display :Excellent  it heats up when play games and use internet over wi-fi other things are working good. call quality is very good. But im facing problem of volume getting decreases automatically while playing songs,video,s or playing game .after then i have to close that and again start then volume comes loud but after 10 sec it again goes down.hence I am thinking to replace it or refund .
a v.good piece for this price tag, ill give my ratings as follows out of 5.. model/design: 4/5 screen: 4.5/5 camera: 3/5 ui: 4/5 battery backup :4/5 coming to ram it has 2 gb in which the whole 1 gb is used for pre installed apps well we can uninstall them tough. processor speed is good, well according to the price. we cant expect speed as compared to 2+ghz devices. for the first time when i turned on the device got heated up within moments but after that its normal not much heating update the software there is a software available. am pretty disappointed when i opened the box no headset no otg cable, jus device and charger that's all very disappointing... my overall score for this device is 3/5. i would have given at-least 4.5 if other accessories were given.
i writing this after 24 hrs of usage. cons: memory only 10.5gb available UI is not so great There is some lagging noticeable takes a lot of time to wake up (screen to switch on)when pressed power button button quality i didn't like 1gb available ram only white available in flash sale(this white doesn't give rich look). Think of all alternatives before you buy , since its not a Steal like that of Mi3. There are some pro's Display is cool heat is very less(I don't understand why so many people have heating problem. ) camera is good. back panel quality is good very light perfect size
This device should've been a master piece but it missed this opportunity in terms of comfort It heats too much that's the problem with this device.  The buiild quality is awesome feels premium the moment you touch it. Screen is full HD. Vivid and bright. Very ligjt. Battery back up is awesome. For me it last for 18 hrs at least. Miui 6 is OK. But lags on balanced mode. Needs update. Camera is descent in day light. During night you would not want to use this camera Front camera is awesome with beautify mode. Processor clocks 1.1 GHz fof normal use and 1.65 GHz for heavy apps. Games won't lag for first 10 mins after it starts heating and then lag starts. Browsing is good experience due to full hd screen. Corning ogs protection works didn't found any scratches yet. Sound is ok. Call clarity is good. Network reception is good. Touch is very good. Headphone output is awesome enhanced by MI sound enhancer.  Heat. It heats too much you can't even play games. I hope they release some update that should resolve this issue.