Firstly, I was a nexus 5 user, which I accidentally bricked.Anyway,It's Better than Nexus 5, Moto g(3), One plus one, Mi4i (minus 4g, which mi4i has)Pros.Brilliant display. (Retina display as written on the box)Awesome camera. (better than iPhone 5s) Oh yeah!!Great battery life (Lasts a day with 20% remaining)Superb performance. (No lag at all)Fast charging.Stylish premium looks.NO HEATING ISSUESConsIr blaster to control your electronic gadgets is very limited. Kinda sucks.No 4gNo SD slot. Does support Otg though.Non replaceable battery.Camera has a little problem in low lights. Yikes!verall, definitely worth it.!P.s. I did a week of research to buy the best phone under 15k. Phones which I rejected were Moto G 3, Nexus 5, one plus one, Asus zenfone 2, all the Samsung crappy phones. A big no no.And lastly, the closest option which I rejected was Mi4i.
This is value for money. I found it better then my iPhone 5 for which I shelled out 42K once.
I bought it in 14K. Initially I was confused between Mi4i & MI4. Where Mi4i supports 4G dual sim, Mi4 supports only 3G single sim. As per my previous experience I chose for better hardware specs & opt for this metal phone. I really love it. It's front & side view looks awesome but I don't like its white back cover. I replaced white cover with Xiaomi's original wooden cover and now phone looks premium. Everything is great except little bit more heating while playing games or surfing continuously for more than half an hour but its not annoying for me. I faced two software problems also. First play store was not working. I Installed google installer & my problem got solved. Second my internet did not worked most of the times. But it was because of internet settings, no problem was with phone. I changed the settings & now my phone working good. If you can compromise with 4G network which will take time to establish in India it's a classic phone.
I just love it!!!!!!!!one of the est phones that i've ever used......very sturdy design great looks robust grip Nice features good battery backup excellent processor performance Great features and believe me NO HEATING ISSUES (EXCEPT WHILE CHARGING COZ XIAOMI PROVIDES A FAST CHARGING ADAPTER) excellent connectivity 
Excellent phone .I am not a tech savy yet the phone meets all the expectations of any techy. Fits in all budgets and highly competitive.
One of the best mobile in this budget mi4 is the awesome as I expected I got much better.. And want to do thanks to seller who gave good response.
Good Mobile. I wish that a far more detailed user manual is provided. I have to go to Customer care to get certain operations clarified.
Absolutely no issues with the phone. Have been been using it for a few months now. It's actually impressive how you can load the phone with so many apps simultaneously running and still it doesn't fail you. Camera is awesome. Have some great videos with it.Unfortunate that some people might land up with faulty phone piece. But otherwise no complaints frankly.Hope it helps.
i have been usind this phone since two months and it has never shown any sign of lagging..even games like asphalt 8 runs smooth never ever lags..one of the best phone i have ever used..super fast and long lasting battery backup.front facing camera picture quality best till now ..simple front camera is awesome .well built..in my opinion u should buy this phone with ur eyes closed.:)
Camera is Superb both front & back, battery almost 3 days in normal usage, MIUI OS is Amazing, One of the Marshmallow (Android M) feature is already included (Application Permission), Note : Guys whoever is facing heating, battery backup etc problem, solution is to open the updater app (provided in the phone) and update it.
Using this phone for last few days and I feel in this price its very difficult to find a better one. MIUI 6 is awesome. It heats a bit during charging (fast charging) and heavy using but its not too much. I feel if you want to use a flawless device (I am not sure if it ever exits or not) then spend more than 30,000. No doubt its a good buy.
best value for money at 13000...Display is magnificent excellent color reproduction.Camara is far better than one plus one and iphone 5s heating issue is totally resolved in current update last but not least.. Amazon they did fantastic job in delivery they fulfilled 24hrs delivery... far better than flipkart...
Yes, phone is really great but have not received any front or back cover, screen-guard etc. I read reviews on Amazon only before purchasing and found that there is some heating problem with this phone but it do not create any problem. Using for the last 2 months without any problem. Hope rest all will remain fine.....
Worthy product in price range . Once update after miui 7, will work like wonder.. Even now it's working like wonder Too many sensors, too much functionality, takes time to understand the product...About the seller Product delivered on day before anticipated 
The phone is awesome . . There is no heating issue. . Only during charging it heats a bit that too when the phone is a week or 2 old after that no problem.. Beast when used in performance mode. . Best interface i have used so far. . No hang issues. . Front camera is superb needles to say about rear.
One of the best smartphones I have used. Value for money. I wonder how have ppl written silly comments about heating and all nonsense. Works perfect with no heating. My iPhone 5s in fact heats more. Go and buy it. Amazing ph at this price.
Yes,I have mi4 woww,I have already use iPhone but last two week I have mi 4, superb touch,superb cemera,and selfee is also superb,no heating,batry is brilient, fast charging,deasply quality is ameging,touch is bater than iPhone,so I suggest mi4 is awesome ,buetifull and heart touch gedget.
In love with this phone. It supports Qualcomm' Quick Charge 2, the reason why it gets hot when you are using it while its getting charged. Fabulous piece of architecture. People downloading apps to measure temperature and write reviews, go get a life.
Not revising the specs as everyone will be knowing them or can get to know from anywhere. But I'm sharing my experience as I purchased this mobile after some research, read reviews and watched videos then decided to go for Mi4. I was considering Mi4i, Lenovo K3 note, then Samsung E5 along with Mi4.Lenovo K3 note was kind of impossible to get at this moment also i do have a soft spot for MIUI over VibeUI so even if it was available i would have gone for either Mi4i or Mi4. Then came Samsung E5, Believe me guys samsung has improved a lot. I was not even considering anything from samsung until one of my friend bought E5, it looks premium, sleek design, superb display, multiwindow feature and brand value but then below par hardware is the reason i turned away from E5.Ultimately the decision had to be made between the two Xiaomi devices Mi4i and Mi4.So after lot of confusion I decided to finally go with Mi4 with its Powerful Hardware(Qualcomm 801 which Samsung provides in Galaxy S5 @25000) and Beautiful Software.And believe me guys I'm loving it. It is THE most premium looking phone that I have seen till now. There are lots of customization that can be done with MIUI and these small things make us happy, like the MiRemote I paired it up with my Samsung TV and it is working perfectly. Display is awesome. The phone is quite light in weight though inspite of its metal frame which I didn't expect. Battery is excellent, from the first cycle of full charge I got 3 and a half days before it went off although I didn't use the phone much apart from Whatsapp and calls as I was busy with Office work. Did not encounter any Heating issue till now even while charging with Fast Charger which is provided with the phone. Phone is running very smoothly.So last before ending my note - Every phone that is coming to the market is good and promising so it is our choice what to choose. Guys if you are interested in Mi4 then I would suggest to go for it as you wont regret. You will be really impressed as I am now..




20)very happy

its an amazing phone i ever use. very fast, good looking, picture quality is awesome, specifications are simply superb. the only thing is phone gets heat, 
i think its not a big problem. i got it for 14000 rs





21)SAR value high

Only 2 cons

High SAR value and average speaker output.

Otherwise best phone for the price. Only phone to compete this is one plus one under 30k budget. So go for it.





22)5.0 out of 5 starsNo words to explain, its simply awesome device..Hats off to Mi..!

Brilliant piece of work with Mi4...absolutely satisfied with this device.. It performs more than you expect...very good viewing angles, nice clarity and fluency...
battery performs very well...





23)It is amazing i m totaly satisfied with this camera is quite ...

It is amazing i m totaly satisfied with this camera is quite well but sound quality shoud be bit loud otherwise it is awesome in good price



24)Great overall performer and nice display, better cameras "+Updated 01-07-2015 "

I would just point out some of the pros and cons that i noticed in this handset.
Some are good but some are really annoying but still better than competition.And after the price cut,its even better.

Specs are really amazing for the price.
not the lightest but Light in-spite of metal body.
display is vibrant and viewing angle is awesome.
camera is too good for the price both front and rear.(Low light lil bit shaky but still good.)
Very good gaming experience.butter smooth UI experience despite of some minor bugs [hope the update solves it]
IR blaster to control TVs, Set top boxes, A/C etc
Battery is simply awesome and simply better than expected.you can except more than a day battery backup if you are a moderate user.
{battery updated below}
Heating: doesn't heat up usually , but i gets a little warm on using certain apps and games but i think its normal
bads are......
Capacitive buttons are backlit but lil difficult to use in Bright conditions
biggest con is its 16gb internal memory which cannot be expanded further with MSD CARD..
[ 12GB USER AVAILABLE ].64 gb is ok.
OTG Support: so that may not be a deal breaker for some folks at least.
No NFC(its mentioned wrong in some websites )[i needed nfc because i have other nfc devices )

Update {25-06-15}

Just thought to make people informed about the following:

its not a dual sim device.No 4G support.(3G and 2G only)
Its not waterproof but will survive to some extent.
You can install windows 10 in the future if you want.
No official lolipop update though You can always try out custom Roms.You can install stock lolipop ROM .
Infra-red feature works like charm for remote controlling TV's
Battery is not user replaceable
-----------------Quick battery backup results(its just an approximate)
The battery will last more than a day even if you are more than an average user.The onscreen time is pretty great.
You don't need to charge it twice a day with Data/wifi ON,with emails,social networking running in background.
But if you are a heavy gamer then better consider buying a 10kMAh power bank.
(This battery backup review is tested with custom ROM)

OVERALL ITS A GREAT DEVICE





25)I'm lovin it 

This is an awesome product but please don't be in dilemma while buying this product
Those who buy this product please update it's s/w as soon as u bring
I did the same coz initially my device started heating a lot I was too upset and was regretting for my decision, I was thinking to return this product, 
then my friend suggest to update.
Once I updated it fell in love with this





26)When you have Mi4 in hand you really feel proud ...

When you have Mi4 in hand you really feel proud of having it.. It's not less than having iPhone.
But having 3gb Ram is not Performing as it's expected..
When I select the given options for theam the cell runs slow..
Rest all OK.





27)Excellent Customer Support & Please Don't Believe in Fake Reviews

First, I would like to thank Amazon for excellent customer support in quick & safe delivery of Mi 4,

Regarding Mi 4 product,
No issues with the handset..for me it is simply the best and is working perfectly without any issues.
No over heating issues after change over to Samsung charger output 5.0 V =0.7 A, overheating issues could be due to rapid charging..........





28)Worth buying it

I was keep thinking whether or not buy this product. I have compared many others with this and Mi4 was the best among all regarding sepcs and everything, 
ya battery is heating a bit when plugged but that is fine. Howeber the product is worth buying for all in economical price.
Would recommend this product.





29)This is one of the best mid segment phone

This is one of the best mid segment phone, I would like to recommend to people. If you are not very keen on using 4g and don't need to use 2 sims, 
then you can definitely go for this one. Camera quality is awesome. Look and feel is also rich. Audio quality of the songs is average.





30)Good phone

Good value for money. Good look and feel. Good responsiveness.
Hangouts video quality not good, patchy when compared to Moto G or Nexus.
Found MIUI mail app cumbersome, so settled for another.
Anyway, it will be obsolete this week with Mi5 launch.





31)overall good phone

Its a good buy.
Very good display,picture quality,and inbuilt features.
Very smooth n fast working..
Pictures in dark not up to mark..heating prob not serious.. Nominal heating once you update it.
Overall.... Great phone ! Money well spent!





32)BEST PHONE IN ITS PRICE RANGE!

Phone is very good
Very smooth UI
A little bit of overheating in performance mode but that is quite normal for phone with snapdragon under its hood.
Phone charges pretty quick
Runs almost high end games at high settings smoothly. No lag





33)One of best in class "Apple for Android." ;)

overall well rounded products excellent ui and super hardware. only problem is set up file xiaomi phones are in Chinese language and 
no SD card it'sI hard transfer data of what's app file old to new this phone.





34)Great phone.

Awesome phone. Camera is just amazing. Heats up at times though but it's common among all smartphones these days. Battery lasts for a day. Amazon delivered it before expected date.
Overall it's too good.





35)Phone is good. But I am experiencing network issues with the ...

Phone is good. But I am experiencing network issues with the phone more frequently than with my earlier Samsung phone. Not sure if its network or device issue.





36)phone is good..

phone is good....look is very good...function is also good.touchscreen nice....but i brought the phone from amzon and after 15 days the display was off...
just aise hi display ud gaya....which is very bad....amazon returned it very fast...nice...still not happy with the product given by amazon..
now i m using a different one...for that reason i cannt use my fav phone now....





37)Just Good

Well,so design wise it is just okay,you will observe the normal squared off design which you see on most Xiaomi devices.
Camera quality is good enough but not really good for the amount you pay.The sensors work well.
The display looks very appealing and is really good to look at.





38)battery drain is the only problem.

1st of I am mentioning that there is NO HEATING ISSUE(not even while charging)
But only prob. I am facing is battery drain issue. It drops to 2% every hour in stand by.
But this problem was not seen in my first 20days .so cannot replace now.





39)Even the miui feels pathetic to me

I got a faulty device. It had yellowish tint at the bottom of the screen.
The camera clicked yellow greenish picture when flash was used.
Even the miui feels pathetic to me.
I bought this device mainly for camera and it disappointed me. Thus , I returned it.
Amazon service was at its best as usual.





40)Two Stars

Performance is not upto expectations






40)really-really bad product

plz donot buy this mobile display crack automatically and they demand 9800rs to change that display. very disappointed,really-really bad product





41)Dissatisfied

I got it yesterday evening. I was in urgent need of a mob as i lost my Iphone. Took it in one day delivery. As promised Amazon did its best and delivered it. 
But after getting the phone i switched on it. Battery was just 1%. I kept it for charging. There was no sign of charging. I kept it for around 3 hours but still 
it was 1%. I received a faulty piece.





42)Bad

The power button has started showing signs of damaged goods. When I checked the return policy it was for 10 days only. The prize has also been slashed off 
within 2 weeks. Bad Experience





43)I would not recommend any one to purchase xiomi product

I would not recommend any one to purchase xiomi product. i could not use it for 3 weeks after receiving it . when i used it , there was some problems in many areas . 
when checked at xiomi service centre , i was told that its mother board will replace. i requested to xiomi and amazon for its replacement as it was only one month old. 
but both parties refuse to replace it . My phone was kept in service centre for nearly 15 days but no replacement was given for this period . 
After replacing its motherboard, phone was given to me by service centre with the words that my all problems related to this phone have been solved. 
But to my surprise after charging the phone at home ( as i was given the phone with fully discharged battery and i could not check its problem at service centre ). 
some of the icons like play store , google etc are missing and some new icons in Chinese language were there. all aplications are in chinese language and these 
applications i could not use . Even i could not download any ringtone, themes as all are in chinese language. Service centre after replacing motherboard didnot 
bother to check it . I AM FACING LOTS OF PROBLEMS WITHTHIS PHONE. EVEN BEHAVIOR OF PEOPLE WORKING IN SERVICE CENTRE WAS NOT GOOD.. I AM ALSO NOT HAPPY WITH SENIOR 
EXECUTIVE OF XIOMI CUSTOMER CARE CENTRE AS THEY HAVE ALSO GIVEN ASSURANCE TO RESOLVE MY PROBLEM AN WIILL UPDATE ME BUT THEY HAVE NOT CONTACTED ME EVEN AFTER 15 DAYS 
FOR WHICH THEY HAVE PROMISED





44)Quality of phone is very bad and waste of woney

If your phone is keep on falling down then I suggest to not to buy this phone. To protect my phone, I used "Trendz Explosion-Proof Tempered Glass for Xiaomi MI4" 
and my phone fallen from 1 feet height still phone got fractured. When I called MI4 customer service center they are asking 9000 rs to replace just a glass
(my screen is displaying good only top glass fractured). I felt phone itself 14000 spending money for glass replacement 9000 is too much. Nowadays we are getting 
good phone for rs 9000. I used moto g 1st generation and xolo Q800 phone and phone felled many times and it was working fine.If anyone planning to buy this phone 
make sure that you are keeping it safe else I suggest to go for some other phone which has gorilla glass in MI. My friends thought to buy this phone after looking 
at the phone. After my experience they dropped their plan to purchase the phone.

I heard some other people experience as well. I felt mi is not giving any quality products.





45)HEAT HEAT HEAT YOU WILL GET.. THATS IT.

Amazon this phone heats up insanely. First get rid of this problem in phone. Then have it on your side.. Xioami claims the device can heat upto 55-60 degree c and that 
is pretty normal. I have lost my faith on flipkart because they launched such a unsafe product for consumer without realising there responsibility for their loyal 
customers.. As E-commerece is booming in the country you should have to strict QC. Phone features are good. But heating issue can't be overlooked..



