Phone is pretty good !!!!  No abnormal heating and the heat it generates is normal for a phone of this Kind !!!  First Xiaomi Product !!! Happy with the performance !!!  Camera beyond my expectations !!!! Total worth for money !!!  Only concern is Service centers !!!! Hope ill not get any issues atleast for an year until I get another one !!!!
This is my first review for any phone. I have brought this phone one and half month ago now I want to share my opinion for this phone so that people can get help. I can give 3 star out of 5. We can’t say it is amazing phone. Its good a phone. Cons: the heating issue is still there. We didn't receive earphone with this phone. Ear phone choose feature available in this phone but sometime earphone not supporting after selection. Difficulty to select your ringtones. Sometimes game is getting slow because of low memory even though 2GB RAM available. Pros: Nice look. Sound quality is good. Front camera is awesome however back is not that much. Battery backup is fine one day deal not more than that after normal use. Never hang till now.
Writing this review after 3 Months usage. The first thing to say is the hopeless aftersales service of MI. My Charger became faulty within one month. After 45 days my front camera started giving problems. The camera gives grainy pictures. Tried calling their support. They told some cache wiping . But nothing worked out. They told to take to service center. I am living in Calicut Keral. My nearest Service Center is Ernakulam abt 200 KMS away. Also there are 3 Service centers in Kerala. But none of them are reachable. So unless you have a MI service center near you never ever buy this product. When I searched MI forums a lot of other customers are facing front camera issues. But MI has never taken any steps to resolve it.  Speaking abt the product  PROS 1. Display is good. 2. Battery is good. 3. Decent Cameras 4. Interface is fine 5. I am not heavy gamer.. So cant comment abt heating  CONS 1. Low Speaker / Ring volume 2. No headphones, Case, along with the phone 3. Speaker placed in back side doesn't give good volume 4. Hopeless support
So Nice and phone functionality & feature are so good and faster. i am happy with this phone !  Thanks MI
I got my MI 4i yesterday. people are complaining heating problem. Luckily i don't see any heating problem in my device it is just perfect. If u r heavy gamer all phone will heat including Iphone. I just fell in love with the looks of the mobile its so light and slim super sexy i loved it. Mi 4i runs so perfectly with my 4G sim. If you have a 4G sim you will enjoy the best with the speed and with my 3G sim it gave me little glitches last night but it is running as good as 4G now. May be it needs time to settle down with the network. Main camera is awesome just like some high end mobile camera. Front camera with the beautify feature it will make you look so handsome, i just loved it my marks in my face does appear if you turn on beautify mode :) i will give 6 out of 5. i am giving 1 extra for its beauty.
Received in good condition. A little beast with All Great Features. Works like Solid machine. All apps are smooth like Butter.
My first MI phone, Best design, Best quality product, High performance in low price, I love this phone, It's really awesome.........
Thanks flipkart 4 such an amazing phone... in mid range price. I got my package yesterday and was bit worried when i saw reviews about its heating problem.. I found this phone very smooth and there was a lil bit heating but as i updated the phone i found this phone very cool.. guys go for it...  Bit disappointed as there was no screen gaurd in the box..
Received phone 2 days ahead of committed delivery date.  Phone is excellent. Good Screen resolution. Good photos with camera. Very light weight. Good battery life.  No heating issues so far.  Only concern is low sound of speakers. Very low sound on Ring tone compared to my old Samsung phone.
I have been looking for a new phone to replace my old Nokia 701. An android was the choice obviously and finally narrowed it down to Xiaomi. Just happened that the mi 4i had just been launched and got it from Flipkart.  I have to say that I quite like the phone. It is light weight, weighing less that the older Nokia which was not a 5" model. The MIUI interface is a delight to use, making the transition from Nokia to Android very easy.  Downloaded the MI PC Suite to integrate the phone with my PC. But that connects only via USB and not via Bluetooth. The bluetooth integration with my car's hands free system was fuss free and works well.  I like the clock app that came with the phone. You can name and set alarms like in older phones, but also name and set timer alarms too that wasn't possible before.  The games played well for my daughter, with no heating or battery problems.
Thank You so much flipkart for your delivery timing its was amazing. Product is very nice . amazing display Nice camera Nice processor and its not heated Great MIUI6 xiaomi finest smartphone . But when i switch on my phone , in black colour something is not good with display. Flipkart please help me on this .. Replace it or do something Bcoz i love this phone .
Best device in this price range.(No looking Back)  pros: light weight Stylish beyond expectations BATTERY: Minimal heat generated (Used continuosly for 4 hrs , intensive Gaming) after the latest update by MIUI 6.6.6.0 Camera : Good  Cons: Has no inbuilt MENU
worth buying for dis price.... cam is totally awesome....cant stop taking pics :D no heating issues yet.. updated to MIUI 6.7.2.0 (cool interface if u fed up with usual look) slim and stylish handset "girls!! just dont think and but it :P"
good phone.....nice interface....camera was excellent.....but the problem is heating thing..... overall it is worth for that price....  highly recommended..
yes , the phone is really good to hold, good display, and really good cam.Really good selfie cam and rear cam is also good.  but , heats up while charging the phone , when camera app is on and while playing games. and no expandable memory and lags while loading some apps like wechat and some other apps, dont know the reason. moto g 1st gen loads the same version of wechat much faster.  You get 901 Mb of ram available when no app is running , ie the os itself takes 1 gb of ram. which is sufficient for normal users.  Dont understand this octa core thing, it eats up battery , heats up alot and gives much lower perfomance . They could have used a Snapdragon 801 instread which would have been better.