2|Had my Galaxy Tab 4 for 9 months, as long as it would take to have a baby. It began to slow up, could not connect to internet. Then it began to freeze, and I found myself cutting it off and on constantly. After awhile I could not cut it off. I called Samsung and sent it back, still under warranty. They returned to me a refurbished one that was moving slow. And after 3 days the screen goes dark. I call Samsung to tel them the Tablet is dark. They tell me i'm now not under warranty. I held the phone for a manager, one never came he was ina meeting, after a half hour I hung up and notified the NYS Attorney Generals Office because Samsung is not upholding my Warranty. I want a refund or a new tablet. Let's see how this turns out. No more Samsung for me either. I am still under warranty unti March 25, 2016
5|I bought 4 of this for Christmas on sale for my nieces and nephews and it has hold real good so far
5|I got this tablet for my daughter and it was easy to set up. I had no difficulty making it part of our family network. My daughter found it easy to personalize. We have purchased Samsung products before and continue to be pleased.
4|This is a very useful tablet for people who haven't utilized them before. It is very user friendly, and cost effective. While not as intuitive as an Apple device, it has a good learning process.
5|I bought this tablet for my son. I love it.. it has the kids mode feature where you can control what they watch and set the amount of time they can play. I went in looking for an amazon kids kindle tablet and ended up buying a SAMSUNG instead sooo worth it!
5|great tablet, bought one for each of my children. kid mode is amazing
5|Got this tablet for my 6yr old works great connected to wifi easily. I even use it for my self as well. Great choice happy with my purchase.
5|My wife is very happy with it's capabilities and screen size.
5|These are tough tablets. I bought this for my 8 year old, and then got a Kid pad for the wrap on it. Holding up well. Samsung, as usual has their stuff together.
5|only problem I could not find a case locally for the device
5|I was looking for an easy tablet for my mother in-law to use. This is perfect for her and I would recommend it for anyone needing an easy to use tablet.
5|My wife wanted a tablet to replace the Crapple iPad she's had for years. This was a great replacement and does everything she wants.
5|Bought two of these for my kids for Xmas . They were familiar with the galaxy tabs already so it was the best choice. So far no problems and also bought two 32gb micro SD cards for expanded memory to download games (Apple pay attention).
5|This tablet connects easily to our Wi-Fi network and is pretty fast surfing the web. It is very comfortable for my daughter to handle. She does most of her school work on it, and utilizes our wireless printers.
5|Got one for my daughter she loves it and then we got one for my son
5|My girls love it. It's fast and compact. She likes it better than my iPad Air.
3|I bought this tablet because I was asked to design something for the Android OS and I needed some experience using an Android product. This was the perfect solution for my endeavor. A solid, inexpensive tablet that does what I need it to do. I love the size and weight. It is easy to handle and I enjoy reading books on this device compared to my "fruit" iTablet. I found a few games I like to play, yet in my opinion the tablet does have a few drawbacks. I have lived the last decade in the world of Apple. I have draw accustom to the hardware and the software being from the same company. I believe it creates a better experience. This tablet has a split between hardware and the software which comes from two separate companies. SO, you get two email clients, two book readers, two calendar apps, and so on. Space is already limited on this tablet so I bought a SD card. Only to find out that I have to download special software to move things to the SD card. I believe this is a great little inexpensive tablet, yet it will not be replacing anything I already have. If you are looking for something basic and inexpensive this is the tablet for you. Great for reading books and playing games. My personal opinion, I didn't like checking my email, Facebook, or watching video (lower res) on the device. Yet that doesn't mean you won't. Just remember you get what you pay for. My expectations were not set high because of the lower price So I am happy with what I got.
5|This is the best tablet that I ever purchased, it has all the features that anyone can ever imagine having in a tablet, there's no other like it.
4|Great tablet for the price! Had to exchange it in the 2nd week of purchase, tablet was freezing up But if not that I would of gave it a 5 star.
5|I purchased this Samsung tablet after owning a Dell tablet for 2 years. The Dell would constantly trash and the battery only last minutes off the charger. This Samsung tablet has been everything expected and more from Samsung. Easy to use, holds charges great and runs all of my apps flawlessly.
5|works great got it for youtube best little tablet out there for the price point.
5|I love this tablet and so does my 5yr old granddaughter
5|Alot faster and better camera quality quality on it is alot clear
5|This Samsung has a very clear picture. Great camera as well.
4|Best for light web browsing and light app use. Not the best performer for games, or heavier apps. Makes an excellent "remote" for Netflix/Hulu/YouTube on Chromecast. Built-in IR blaster can control TV with app.
5|By far the best deal easy to use kid mode love it best screen resolution
5|We had a different name brand tablet before. This one runs so much faster. Apps respond when you select them, screen quality is better, and (best of all) it has a home button, which makes it easy for my kid to use
5|Great Price and Great Quality. I purchased it for my wife and she loves it.........
2|Bought this product for my eight year old daughter and she loves it.
5|My 3 year old son uses it and its a tuff tablet. Great for the money
5|The tablet works great and very useful for my sons
5|Got this for my husband for Christmas, he is not into electronics but he simply loves it.
4|My daughter was in dire need of a relatively inexpensive, but solid performing tablet. Ran across this and decided to pick it up as a gift. She absolutely loves it. While it definitely gets a lot of recreational use, she also uses it for reference when doing homework or just wanting to learn something new on the fly.
2|Bought this tablet about a month ago and thought since it was a Samsung that it would be a good product expecially since I paid $250 for it. But instead I would say that it's probably worth maybe $50 because I've owned a $50 tablet and that tablet did about as good and just one does which you expect for $250 that wouldn't be true. But I find that this tablet is slow unresponsive at times laggy and very frustrating. I think I might if I can take the darn thing back. The camera isn't even that good it sucks my old Windows Phone that I got for $15 had a better camera than this thing does. Because at least it had autofocus.
5|it is everything I expected and more! love this tablet. very reasonably priced
5|Great product satisfied with purchase matches price
5|Exactly what we were looking for. Great price too!
4|Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 - 7 - 8GB is great for on the go. Not to big not too small. We purchased this item on sale.We Intended to use it for gaming and didn't want to spend a lot of money. It is perfect for short outings,ie. waiting at the Doctor's office, DMV, Over-nighters, Work... It fits in a purse or small shoulder bag. Light weight even when it's in the case. Sometimes, an iPad is to bulky to carry around with you everywhere. My son (age 23) likes it for gaming, instead of his iPhone. The Galaxy gives him a little bit larger screen than his phone, and it's light weight give him the convenience to take it more places with him. He has no complaint with it's operations. It performs great for the way we use it. We use it more as a supplemental device, for convenience factor.
5|Bought for my granddaughter for an Christmas present and she loves it. Watches videos all the time
5|This item is the best thing for my needs. I have been using it for other things as well, and it has proven to be just just as good as my laptop if not better. I am not very techy but it was pretty easy to figure out and use. I am so very happy I made this purchase and I have convinced a friend that she would be extremely happy if she bought one...She did and I know I am speaking for her that she too couldn't be happier that she made the purchase. I would absolutely recommend it to anyone that may be considering something like this. In fact I ended up spending less than my budget commanded.
3|Our family has 3 of these tablets. We have had no issues with them. We love the price. They work well for simple tasks like web browsing, YouTube, Netflix, playing simple games, etc. They probably aren't the best choice for high end gaming, but they work for us as described.
5|I purchased the Tab 4 for my daughter thinking it would be a perfect gift for Christmas. I was more than right. The clarity of the tablet is outstanding. With a quick processor made it perfect for games. In addition, it has a great kids mode. I love this device it would recommend it to anyone who wants one for their kid or a small tab for themselves.
5|My daughter loves the clarity of the screen, she can carry it wherever she goes in her purse.
2|Bought this tablet for my son for online gaming. Although the screen and colors are adequate response time is slow if gaming. For a general purpose tablet it is well equipped and should provide what you need for web search, email etc
5|I bought my Samsung Tablet recently for my Vegas trip. The reason I bought this tablet is because I don't have my Sony mp3 player anymore. Which makes me really sad since it was an awesome mp3 player! Anyway, I had been thinking about buying a tablet but it wasn't until now that I was going on this trip that I decided to finally buy it. I LOVE IT! I'm so glad I bought it. I have used it every single day since. The battery lasts a long time, the quality of the pictures are really good, the mp3 players are great, it's easy to use, it's a very nice size and it's a great looking device. I still plan on replacing my beautiful Sony mp3 player but as far as this product goes, I'm really satisfied.
4|I was looking for a tablet that didn't cost too much. I'm very happy with the choice I made. It's light and works great. It took a little getting used to as I am an Apple user, but once you get used to it, it's great. I love the amount of free apps you can get. The only downside is that the battery doesn't last as long as I would like.
4|Perfect size for reading books . Battery last long.. Easy to carry
5|Tablet transfered all my downloaded apps from my Samsung android phone automatically, Sweet!
5|This is a great entry level tablet we bought two for our two young kids and it fits their needs fine. Good size for small hands and can take a drop or two so far.
4|Works nicely, speed is good, storage is way too small, sd card slot is great but samsung likes samsung cards and they are spensive, all in all happy with it, just a couple negatives. Size and price are right though
5|I purchase this product for my mother Christmas gift. She uses this more than her laptop
4|Love the feel and view on the screen. Great resolution. Easy to read on. Great 1st tablet to own.
5|If you want a decent tablet, especially at this price point, this is not a bad option.
5|I was looking for a basic, economic tablet for surfing the web, reading books, and streaming video. This has been great for my needs. The camera is a bit sub-par, so I don't use if for that purpose.
4|This tablet was supposed to be for my mother, but my youngest sibling got her hands on it. Still seems in tact so I suppose that's great. It's a great portable size too, harder for children to drop it.
5|i loved this product so much that i purchased one for both of our kids. it's great for educational as well as entertainment purchases
4|Got it for my boy friend's son and he loves it. Size, speed, graphics seem to be great
5|All of our phones are Samsung, so last year I bought my daughter this tablet (at a much higher cost). We loved the ease of use and availability of the playstore (unlike kindle fires). So when my son broke is free Verizon one, we got this.
5|I use this product for my everyday use. the battery life lasts a long time. overall its a great product.
4|Bought this as a Christmas gift for my son. It is a great tablet for the price and my son loves it. Great buy
3|THIS TAB REPLACES A TAB 3. IT IS PRETTY NICE TABLET.
5|I own the older version on Tab. This is a nice upgrade for the price. Perfect size for portability. Very user-friendly.
4|The tablet is very thin, excellent build quality, and very reliable.
4|Overall the product functions well and is easy to use.
5|Really easy to use! Very satisfied with this product and the functions of it!
5|I have no complaints about this product. I bo*ught for my grandson of 7 yrs, and it work quite well, he was able to download and play games, read book and do kids friendly activities. Excellent product!
2|My tab keeps freezing up and I have to shut down and start all over again. I am very disappointed.
5|Samsung products are great!!! My brother loves this tablet.
4|When a laptop or note book it to big to handle this Galaxy Tab 4 is great. It's quick and completely functional for all internet needs for surfing , file transfer's, messaging, web site's access. I would recommend this product. the speed and memory storage is more than enough for most when your on the go.
4|This is a Samsung tablet, that being said its not an awful tablet, but it is a buget tablet. The only spot this tablet falls behind at is the speed, it'll have momentary lagging. This is probably due to the fact it is still running kit kat software. I would recommend setting it up with the Google launcher if you get this tablet, it helps proformance a lot. Besides that though this tablet is a great tablet for the price, all it needs is a few software updates from Samsung.
5|Great tablet for the price I paid for it I highly recommend this product
3|Same as a phone but no need for a service provider.
5|I love the ease of use on this tablet. Its like the Galaxy phones so my grandson is already familiar with it. It has great color and is small enough for him to carry around but still big enough for his games.
4|This Tablet was a Christmas gift for my Mom. She loved it! I'm looking to purchase another soon. The price was perfect!
5|Excellent tablet,really love it, very effective and portable.
5|I bought a galaxy tablet I love it it work perfect!
5|This is by far the best tablet I've ever owned. I have yet to have any problems
5|Great tablet at a great price. Only a little more than the no name tablets yet it's a Samsung
4|I enjoy having this tablet. It is the perfect size and my daughter loves it as well
5|I have owned several android devices. This one is by far the best one ever! It has a glass cover instead of plastic, so it feels real smooth and responsive to touch. It also has the best screen I have seen on a tablet. The screen is bright and the resolution is perfect.
4|Great tablet especially for a child to teen level.
4|Had this for a few months now with no issues. I use it to watch movies and play games.
5|I bought one for myself last year and got this one for my husband which was easy for him to use!
4|Wonderful tablet...only thing that I can complain about is it does not have the mirror screen option. Guess you have to spend more money and buy the 8 inch tablet. Wish Samsung would have added this feature.
4|This tablet is used for my 9yr old son, elementary teacher assigned reading from an app. The tablet is great. He is able to play his favorite games as well. The camera isn't of great quality, though.
5|For my age this is a great product..... I can read all my scriptures as well as magazines even from wayback issues. The features are easy to navigate... I just love it.
5|I purchased this tablet as a Christmas present for my son and he absolutely loves it. The whole time I was visiting him during the holidays he never put it down. He said it was fantastic.
4|Not bad device. Locks up occasionally but overall good device for the price.
5|My first tablet and I love doing research on it ,and watching movies and playing games
5|Great product , nice sleek size , the screen looks very nice .
5|Brought this Samsung tablet mainly to watch tv shows and movies. It is working great so far. The picture is very sharp and the colors are amazing! Very fast response too. I highly recommend it!
5|This was on e of many items I purchased for the company Christmas party and the employee that won this item is pleased
3|The tablet is not the fastest or has the clearest screen picture, but for kids or as a cheap tablet it works well.
5|We bought this for our son. He has had no problems with it and found it very easy to use.
5|Bought this as a xmas gift. The person loves it and Tablet is always in use, very durable, has fallen and no cracks which is great but will buy a cover to be in the safe side.
5|perfect size, fits almost anywhere. Thin, but very durable.
5|Gifted this unit to my mom for Christmas and she is loving it. Simple to use, has enough features built in for an average user who just uses it for web, email and some gaming. If you want a powerhouse, multitasking unit then this isn't the product for you. This tablet is for basic, everyday use. Cheers.
2|Only has 8gb memory that's expandable but not everything can be stored to the SD card. Almost 4gb of the internal memory is bloat ware so you only have 4gb actually which is a very slow operating system. Great tablet for those who just want a tablet but that's it
4|Great tab! Got it for my daughter and brought a 32 micro sd, she loves it!
3|Maybe I'm bias. But iPads are far more superior. I wouldn't get another one. Stick to iPad
5|Bought this for my mother-in-law as she is not too tech-savy, and it is perfect for her. The camera takes great pictures with minimal lag. Not too big and not too small. Just the right size.
5|I purchased for my 3 grandkids ages 6, 5, and 3. Very user friendly for them. Easy for them to navigate
4|It's fast able to surf Web with mutilate windows open, easy to use Great clear photos
5|Provides many hours of entertainment. Very happy !
5|This Galaxy is our second to date. We have been very pleased with the operation of each one. They have Google Maps which is especially helpful &amp;amp; respond quickly when using WiFi. Love this tablet.
3|Purchased this tab and got it home screen wasn't much bigger than my I phone
5|We bought this tablet for our son to take back to college He really likes this tablet
5|I'm wondering if this isn't the last of the 7 inch tablet. This is a great buy. great price.
4|Couldnt beat the bang for buck on these. They are one of the best if not the best tablet at there price range.
5|I love the speed clarity the app availability the thin design and portability overall performance.its a good kid friendly device and is also good for a new to the gadget world.Computer illiterate.its also a good communication device with the proper apps installed.
5|Purchased this tablet as a gift for my dad for Christmas. Haven't had any issues whatsoever!
5|Bought this for my teenage son for when we are traveling. He loves it. Easy to set up and easy to use.
5|This is a good tablet. The camera and videos are bright.
5|This is my second pad gave my first pad to my great grandaughter.I liked and missed it enough to buy another.
4|Samsung is a great company and their products reflect it! I bought this tablet for my mother for Christmas. She wanted something just a bit bigger than her phone so this was perfect for her! She is able to do all of the things she does on her phone on her new tablet and she is happy!
5|Great price great device. Great for a beginner of the digital world
5|Had a ton of experience with Samsung products before. Great for their ease of use and prices. Purchased for a present for my mother as a first piece of tech. She loves it so much. Can surf the web, watch movies on Netflix, Skype etc. all for under 150. It's a great starter for people that are not tech savvy.
5|Small enough that small hands can hold it, but still a big enough screen to be usable for all sorts of things. Download and plays videos great. I
4|It worked better than the 3, but it was a little difficult to get started. It would be best if there were some instructions included with the package.
5|Great small tablet for playing games. Has good graphics.
4|I just love.it. can sync all my devices. So easy my 4yr old uses it.
4|Totally worth it for the price . It keeps charger longer .
4|its ok, I have a galaxy s6 so its basically easy to use and navigate. I don't like that its a bit slow compared to my kindle fire hdx. I don't like that the memory is only 8 gb but for the deal I got it was worth it specially because it have the option for a micro sd card.
5|I bought this for my teen and they love it. A great what for them to begin.
5|I bought 3 of these for Christmas for our kids (ages 11,8 and 5). works great for what they are doing, playing games, and the older two use it to access their school online work. We did buy cases for each just to protect them, with the cases, each has survived several drops.
5|I have samsung everything tv, phone, tablet, sound bar couldn't ne happier with their product. Tablet works great just as I expected it would.
5|Big power good speed I like better than my tab3 even though it's smaller it feels bigger when I use it
4|I love my Galaxy tablet. The only thing I don't like about it, is that it doesn't have a flash for the camera. My original Galaxy Note phone has one, the new tablets should have one too.
5|I really like my tab 4. I like that it's like my new cell Samsung S6. Very easy to operate. Works great for me! Highly recommend! Thanks Pete
4|I purchased 2 of these, one for my husband and one for myself. No complaints so far.
4|Happy with my purchase, Always loved Sony. My living room tv will be a sony when its time for a replacement
3|I bought it for my 4 year old son, he loved it thanks
5|I'm loving my new tablet that my brother and mother brought for me as a Christmas gift. I love to surf the web and play games.
3|To small returned for larger tablet with more memory.
5|I was looking between various models/brands, The Samsung was the brighter and faster among those on display at the store. (in the price range of $150-$180 of course). It is fast and very easy to use, Although its a 7 inch display, it is perfect for my purpose. The screen is bright and responds fast to the touch. Memory is good for my usage.
3|I prefer my iPad . I find it much easier to use and easier to navigate. Not a bad tablet. Just my preference.
5|Got this on black Friday del. Extremely happy with it. Thin , not bulky and works great for reading books.
5|My Grandson loves this tablet. He likes it much better then the Kindle Fire. He is very happy.
5|Purchased as a gift for my adult daughter. It has everything that she needs in this device from picture quality to access to collage papers.
5|The reputation of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 speaks for itself and the reviews of this product gave me the confidence to get this as a present for Christmas for my mother. She doesn't need a robust device - only a device for simple browsing and some games. And this does the trick.
5|Great product! No complaints! It is fast as expected and feels like an oversized version of my phone, which was what i was looking for
5|Great for when someone is busy on the desktop. I like that I don't have to sit at the desk to research something ,I can do it in my easy chair.
4|It was my mom's Christmas gift and she loves it. It's a decent tablet for someone that will only use it for Internet, Facebook, Youtube, etc. It would also be a good tablet for teens. The camera it's not good though, horrible pictures quality.
5|Happy i bought this tablet instead of a apple product.
5|This was for my niece and she love it easy to use and perfect for anyone
5|Awesome tablet for the price and also the option on adding micro sd...
5|Got this for my 11-year old son for his apps, games, and sphero controls. He loves it but unfortunately still has to let his sister play with it from time to time. Perfect as a first tablet.
5|Simple to use and very good price for compact tablet. Easy to carry and use
4|Went in to purchase just a basic tablet and the Samsung rep presudaded us to get this tablet. The speed of the connection and the ease of use is great.
5|I needed this to run square for my business and it fits perfect.
5|My son loved getting this for Christmas. He loves the games and apps.
5|This is a very nice tablet from samsung, if i need another one this is what i would get.
4|Bought as a replacement for previous tablet that would not charge anymore. Same galaxy different model.
5|This is a good device to have and samsung products are wonderful to have.
4|Brought this for my father who is in his 70's just trying to keep him up with tech. World. He loves it
3|I bought this to play my games but I use it to check my emails and work on excel documents more. I really like how portable it is.
5|Excellent Tab with great quality to develop all the necessary functions of a tablet. Great when travelling. Portable and convenient.
5|I got this for my 12 year old grandson. The first thing he did was download a Madden football game. He is enjoying his tablet so much that I have to put a time limit on its use so I can have a conversation with him.
4|I bought for my grandson. Great little tablet! Colors were bright and clear. Perfect size to hold with one hand. Seemed very responsive.
5|Excellent product i recommend this product to anyone.
4|This is a nice tablet i would recommend to anyone.
3|Is good for kids the charger take so lon is ok for kids
5|I no longer regret not having a television in the bedroom.
5|I bought this for my twin grandsons that are 10. I bought one to see how well the take care of it. They live it and are very careful with it. I'm completely satisfied with the perfect purchase I made
5|I purchased this tablet for my nephew (8 yrs old) and he loves it. Great camera clarity and easy to use.
4|Comes in handy, having a bigger screen to show clients a bigger/better picture. Meets all my needs....
4|Bought this for my mother as an introduction to a smart tablet. Great deal for the price!
4|The battery life sucks but other than that we use it for our 2 year old for basic games to help hand eye coordination and tactile responses. We also use it for Netflix when we are over parenting for the day.
5|I bought this as a Christmas present for my grandmother. She has thoroughly enjoyed the ease and simplicity of the tablet. It was the perfect choice!
4|Works good. A little small, but didn't want to spend the money on an ipad.
5|Bought for a nine year old soon to be ten years to replace his cracked Galaxy Tab 3. He's enjoying the faster processing speed. Great bang for the buck.
5|We bought this as an open box item. We were looking for a tablet that I could put in the kitchen for recipes. It runs great. I love it.
5|This is a great tablet. Light weight, fast and durable.
5|Purchased to get my e-mails and surf the internet. Small enough to store in my pocket. Has a long battery live. Takes great pictures, nice and clear. Very happy with purchase.
5|Even my young ones use this tablet. Great for homework.
5|This tablet is a great upgrade for my old tablet. I would definitely get another one for my husband or kids.
4|My fiancee got this for me for Christmas. It's great little tablet. It's fast and easy to use, but I don't care for all of the preloaded apps that came with it.
4|I found it very useful n easy to use. It's my first tablet n use it all the time.
5|I think something very good to surf the Internet good device
5|This tablet is everything I thought it would be at a great price. It is the perfect size.
5|Great tablet and user friendly. My 5 year old Godson enjoys it.
5|This is a wonderful tablet for kids. Very easy to use. My kids absolutely love them!
4|Bought for my 9 yr old son.have had trouble getting apps to save to card instead of device.
5|I owned a Tab 3, and was so impressed that I purchased the newer one for my wife the Tab 4. She is NOT tech savvy, but is able to use this device easily and without much help from me. Love the Samsung Galaxy Tab devices, easy to use and well made
5|I've enjoyed the size as well as being user friendly
3|Great tablet bought it for my 4 year old daughter. It's small, easy to use, runs fast, even has kids mode. The only thing I dislike about this tablet is the storage, it runs out quickly so you can't download that many apps unless you have a micro SD card..
4|Bought this for my daughter and she loves it . And so do I it is suitable for kids and it grows with them.
4|I got this for my wife. She seems to like it fine except she wishes it had a front facing camera with flash.
4|Bought tablet for my brother in law and he loves it. He likes it is small and easy to use.
5|I bought the tablet for my ten year old and he loves it very easy to navigate he even takes tablet to school and does he's school work and it works great for him he can log on with wi fi anywhere. Great size.
5|Use for games. Perfect screen size. Easy to operate. Happy with item.
5|This is a great first tablet. Was easy to get going right out of the box.
5|My grandson loves this tablet. It is fast and works great.
5|Unlike previous android device I've purchased this tablet is fast and doesn't freeze. I bought for my 15month old son and it has a kid mode on which you can not exit unless you enter the passcode.
5|I purchased this tablet for my son. He's a heavy hitter on electronics and the device has stood up to the task! It's a great deal for the cost.
5|Great price. Excellent Android for any need . Easy-to-use for beginners .
4|I love my 4 tablet for carrying to church programs!!!!!
5|I love Samsung tablet have great pictures I own 3 of theses anad one Samsung lite 3
5|This little talet does everything I wanted it to be able to do and does it quite quickly.
5|absolutely love it!!! looking to buy another one for husband.
5|Perfect tablet for gaming and browsing. My daughter loves it.
4|Purchased two for Christmas presents. Person who owned a Samsung phone absolutely loves the tablet. The other person owns an iPhone and finds it a bit cumbersome. Both like the quality of the tablet.
5|Bought this for my husband who is not tech savvy at all, and he loves this tablet. It's easy for him to use, and he's not afraid to play and learn on it like he is on my computer. Best non-gift I've bought for him.
5|I bought this tablet for my husband for Christmas...he loves it. It serves like a mini laptop
5|Purchased as a gift, easy to use and navigate. Great quality for the price.
5|Very nice. Works well for my needs. Mainly used for browsing the internet and email when traveling and watching movies on something larger than my phone. In hindsight, probably should have bought the bigger screen but this was an exceptional value.
3|Seems to be a vey nice tablet I just wish that the screen was a little bigger
5|Bought this tablet as a gift for my kids and they loved it has a lot of storage for their games there really happy with it.
5|This is Samsung's entry level pad. Good speed, good color and display. great price.
5|Got this is a gift. I have owned 2 Samsung phones and a full tablet so I had no issues or worries purchasing this for a gift. Opened and help set it up and it is configured almost the same as the newer Note phone so the is no issue trying to understand a new design. Great tablet, small, light, and easy to use.
5|Easy to setup and user friendly. Awesome front facing camera.
4|I brought a gaming computer and have had very good reviews from him.
5|I strongly recommend to everyone who would like a tablet
5|I am really liking my tablet it is easy to us for what I need to do .
5|My son is loving this table.....he wanted one for about one year and we chose an android based tablet to be compatible with his phone. Excellent choice he is enjoying it. Merry Christmas to him!
5|Happy that I purchased a quality brand with a good history. Looking forward to it performing well for my 17 yr old as he looks up piano music to immulate!
5|He uses it to video chat with his friend in florida...he is in ohio Even plyed guitars within the chat
5|Easy to use. It takes very little time to get started..
5|I got this tablet for my grandson for Chistmas. He already had one of another brand but had just about worn it out. Upon opening the package he was obviously pleased and immediately got started setting things up on it, with some help from his Mom. Before the night was over he was recharging the battery. All setup went well and he's enjoyed using it since receiving it! I recommended he get a protective case for it as twelve year olds aren't always careful with delicate things!
5|This is a great tablet .Not too big and not too small .You can read everything on the normal screen .I have not found anything that I want to do that cannot be done . Very rarely use my lap top any more !
3|I don't really like this tablet very much because a lot of the games we download are full of advertisements and there is not a huge selection for toddlers. It also gets realily warm to the touch. My husband set it up so it could be something he did but I find it weird. I'm not huge on tablet use but someone who is might find it more pleasing than myself. I don't think it's a bad tablet though especially since it's a Samsung
5|Good for the price and not laggy. Battery life is also good.
5|has worked for everything i needed it for. good camera, fast processes, doesn't freeze up, just what i was looking for in a tablet.
4|This tablet was very easy to setup. It's easy enough for my 7 year old to maneuver around. The camera is nice. We ran out of memory quick, but that was easily fixed with an inexpensive mini memory card.
4|Not very fast. But it's great for email and games.
2|I bought this and had to return it. The tablet kept freezing and then it wouldn't charge. I went and got a second one and the screen still freezes off and on. It's real cheaply made. This tablet is probably okay if it's used for kids. That's about it. I do not recommend it at all.
5|I love my tablet. I use it everywhere that has wifi lol.
4|My five year old watches educational programs and cartoons on this mini iPad , a good size and easy to operate . She loves it .
5|Very asy to use, everything a 5yr old could want or need.
4|Bought this for my 9 years old and he loves it! Easy use and great battery. Great purchase!
3|I like samsung, yeah!!! I love it, I trust samsung products
5|I have purchased 3 of these and have loved everyone. Had to get them for all the kids. Runs smoothly and quickly. No need to buy a more expensive one.
4|So far I've had no problems with the device. The camera could be better. Battery life is good. Picture quality is good. Not to much of the bloatwear Samsung is known for.
5|Nice size and crystal clear screen. Love the camera
5|Great tablet for the price and very accessible for kids
5|These are great tablets for my 4 &amp;amp; 5 year olds. I'd be happy with it for myself also
5|I bought this item as a gift. I selected it because it would work the same as their phone. They love it. It is much easier for them to read things &amp;amp; view pictures on it then their phone.
5|A Gift for our Son, He loves it, Daughter was given same tablet last year, works great. Samsung is my only choice for tablets
4|Bought this for my 9 yr old for Christmas, and she loves it! Great graphics, reliable little tablet for anyone.
5|I purchased tablet for my daughter and she loves it.
5|Always purchase Samsung in Tablets for myself. Since this was a gift, cannot comment on model I purchased.
4|My kids are happier with this tablet the 4.0 They said it holds a charge and it's thinner then their 3.0 they had.
5|I was looking for a tablet for my two boys. I have a galaxy s5 and decided to go with this. I love it and am happy with my purchase.
5|Always works, very reliable when streaming.Keyboard not really necessary.
5|Fast, easy to use mini-computer. Has more features than my laptop that is 2 years old. Google worked great and the voice recognition was fine. Price was right
5|I bought this for my wife for Christmas and its light and convenient and pretty quick!!
4|So far so good. Only had it for less then 2 weeks.
4|I would have given it a 5 if it had 16Gb of storage.
5|I really like this tablet. Easy to use and I was able to set up his calendar, notes and any apps I felt he needed with no issues.
5|I purchased this tablet for my eighty year old mother. She loves playing her casino games. Easy to use, wonderful size
5|I bought this tablet for Xmas and let me say, this is the best tablet I ever had. It's super light and easy to use. The front and back camera are great to take selfies and pictures and it's great for taking videos. My kids use the Google Chrome for web browsing and it's really fast. Downloading apps is fast as well as opening and running them. I have downloaded the CM Security from the Google Play Store for free and I run it once a day and it always says it's safe. VS. The iPad Mini IPad mini is a little bigger than this and a little lighter, but definitely not worth the extra $200 or so. Over all a very good investment for a starter tablet. Worth the money and very easy for my kids to get used to working on a tablet.
5|My daughter loves this tablet!! She previously had a kindle, but was way to advanced for it. After upgrading to the Samsung tab she couldn't be happier!
4|my son got this tablet from Santa for Christmas he had the tab 3 and it was time for an upgrade he loves it
5|Bought this tablet for my 10 year old daughter.Great for games and videos and music. Needs SD card for extra storage because apps take up alot of space.
5|Purchased for teen son to play games and check email.
5|This is a great product, picture is amazing and battery life is good.
5|Still learning how to use this tablet but I like it much better than the insignia that it replaced. Never go wrong with a Samsung
5|Great tablet my son had a Surface but isn't able to get the apps that are available in the playstore so he uses this for play and the surface for school work. Small tablet but packs a lot of features.
5|great product. my mom bought this for my nephew and he loves it.
5|This is a great tablet, my son was getting on his phone alot to play games and using his data.. now he has plenty of data, and he is constantly on his new tablet... win, win..
3|Screen has just OK quality. Good for begginer or kids tablet
5|I bought this tab for my little nephew, and a kid's case for it, so my brother and his son can use the same tablet
4|Great little tablet for kids. Perched this tablet for my 7 year old he loves it.
5|its a great tablet and ive used it a ton without any problems
5|I wanted a 'gadget' in between my smartphone and laptop - and this tablet fits the bill. I like that it isn't one of the huge tablets and it's easily/safely transported in my purse. Awesome quality too- It holds a charge well also!
5|Got this as a x-mas/birthday present for myself. Works great with all the games I play on it. I trust Samsung when it comes to tablets and phones.
5|I bought this tablet for my father who is not tech savvy by any means. It's worked out perfectly so far. Easy to use and navigate, and he loves it!
5|The Galaxy Tab 4 does a great job on Wi-Fi and is very quick to get to sites. One of the great features of the Tab 4 is the Google Maps that can be downloaded and kept for about 3 weeks. This has come in handy when traveling and finding locations without needing a smart phone, because it tracks you by GPS. This is our second Tab 4 and we love it.
4|Product was OK but screen too small for my personal preference (was a gift, traded in)
5|A budget tablet.. It does great, smooth and very fluid it impress me
4|Not the fastest or great display but it does the work for the price. I wanted something I could work with before going to bed or around the house instead of using my phone.
5|Simple easy to use tablet and the perfect size to watch movies ect.
5|No complaints here. Have had this tablet for about 2 weeks. So far it is doing everything I would expect it to. Working perfectly for my 3 and 5 year olds.
5|This tablet was purchased for a 6 year old. She is able to use it like a pro to play games and watch videos.
4|I bought this as a clearance item when we purchased a new range. It was on a limited time 50% off deal. For the money paid it is a great deal. I love the small size. It is easy to carry with me and has all the features of a standard Samsung android based platform. Wifi connectivity is easy to setup and use. Standard applications are pre-loaded and there isn't a lot of bloatware (you know all that junk you wish you could delete that comes on a tablet or phone). This has the standard android interface and full access to the play store for new apps. Overall, I am very please with this purchase
5|I bought this tablet for my father in law... great item.
4|Bought this for my daughter and she absolutely loves it. It keeps her entertained and I've had very little issues with it
4|This is a nice compact tablet of high quality and loaded with many great features. The display quality is fantastic.
5|I bought this for my 10 year old. It's easy for him to use and I love the parental controls.
4|We have been using our device for two weeks, I have not had much of a chance to use it personally because my son uses it mostly. He seems to like it. I prefer the Android market over Apple so this is why I bought this one after reading reviews online. I had a $100 gift certificate for BB, the other cheap tablets seemed too cheap so I put in an extra $40 for this one so I wouldn't end up with a broken piece of garbage like my nextbook tablet. My other child got an ipad Mini 2 for Christmas at the same time. The ipad mini 2 was easier to set up and has a easier interface than this Galaxy but the apps seem to cost more money sometimes in the apple store, where they are half the price or even free in google play store, so there are pros and cons. The battery life for the two devices so far seems to be about the same. The ipad mini 2 is bigger but I paid $80 more for it. Some of the apps do crash when my son is playing them or they load slowly, not really sure if it is a problem with the app or the interface/processor, I guess only more time will tell. The memory does fill up quickly, especially if you have a little one who likes to install games/apps. So you will want to immediately invest in a Micro SD card for this unit. The Bluetooth works! Also happy to say this product works well with ANKI Overdrive. There have been no crashes so far in the app. I hope this will help anyone trying to make a decision.
4|Parents needed a new techy gadget to surf the net while they are on the couch....big screen, goo quality and speed. Good price
4|Love it.. Would recommend bigger screen. Great when used with extra storage.
5|A tablet that you can hold with one hand. Being a Samsung , the display is fabulous . Synchronizes with my Galaxy phone as well. Great tablet for only a little more than the no name tablets .
5|I have always enjoyed samsung on every level and well this tablet is good to have its small but works what you need it for
5|I truly enjoy and love my new tablet! I would really recommend it.
4|Yes, there are better tablets out there. But for simplicity and use by a child, this is perfect.
5|I can do everything on this tablet, including browse internet, check my email accounts, play games, read books,take photos or shop on line. Love my Samsung Tablet S4.
4|I bought this tablet for my daughter. It works great my only regret is thati didn't get one with more memory. I Would still recommend this tablet to friends with the recommendation of a memory card depending on what they are using it for.
5|The tablet is is easy to use small an compact my daughter loves it
5|We purchased three of these tablets for our adult children and their families for Christmas. They have been used by the adults and children continuously and are working out well. Since I am not using one myself I can't give a lot of details but they have been happy with them so far.
4|great tablet for a beginner, it has easy setup that is easily understood
4|I love Samsung products. I never had issues with Samsung. This tablet is the perfect size for a child.
5|Good tablet great Christmas gift for my 2 year old.. !:-)
5|my son really liked this tab runs real good its easy to use
4|My son loves his new tablet. It is perfect for him.
3|Perfect size for travel. Purchased for my son, he loves it.
4|Works well and GREAT battery life! Upgrade from the Note 8.0, and don't regret it.
5|I love this tablet! I got it for my kids and it's great for them.
5|I got this tablet for my son as a starter tablet. So far he's been able to do all the things he wants to do at age 11, mostly gaming, photos and calling his sister through hangouts. I am pleased to have my computer back to myself and very pleased with the price of this product. In a couple of years when he's shown he can care for his device we will get something bigger.
5|I love the new galaxy tablet 4. The only thing I wished it had is a flash.
5|seems to be very pleased so far....great tablet!!!
3|Does not have an up to date OS but is good for the price
5|For it's size, it's a good tablet. I purchased it for my granddaughter.
5|Bought this Tab 4 to replace wife’s 2yo Tab 3 that was having charging, boot and button issues. Seems to be working well so far.
4|Easy to use as it is just like the Samsung phones. Not my favorite tablet to date but gets the job done
5|Sd slot and u can run 2 apps side by side in the same screen.
5|Very easy to use. I would like a "how to" book, though. That might be with individual apps, though, like clicking definitions in Overdrive.
5|Two thumbs up and the settings at awesome state of the art tech
5|As always Samsung delivers a great product for a great price. I recommend this tablet to all looking for a 7" Graphics, speed, memory &amp;amp; great WiFi connection. Perfect!
3|Great tablet for a kid. Maybe next time will be better a 16G option to be able to download more apps
4|Does everything as advertised but unless you are very familiar with the features the on line help is awkward and impacts getting started
5|I love this little tablet. It works great. It's a great value for the money. I bought this one on sale and I ended up only paying about $30 more than a family member that bought the older tab 3 version on black friday. I'm very happy with my purchase.
4|Bought this after a Windows tablet died after a few weeks of use. Easy to setup and transfer books etc over.
5|My child and I both use this tablet. purchased for a Christmas gift. Works well and have had no problems with this tablet
5|I bought this for a reader but it does so much more than that.
4|I purchased this tablet for my son so he could play games and listen to music and leave my iPad and iPhone alone. Works really well took a little bit of time to get used to the operating system.
2|The screen resolution is very good. Images are crisp and clear. If your looking for something quick and powerful there are much better tablets out there.
5|Got this for our 13 yr old. Great, better priced than ipod touch and is expandable. Also got a micro sd card for it to expand the memory. Great for the price!
5|Got this for my son, and he loves it since he can Talk to his Friends online with the Camera
5|It is by far one of the best tablets out there. It is user friendly and you can add memory with an SD card.
4|We loved using this for our company party give away. It was something that our employees loved getting and they were eyeing it all night.
4|Got this for my son for xmas and he loves it. Nice screen and user friendly.
4|The screen resolution isn't as good as I thought it would be but it works pretty good
5|Samsung by far has one of the best tablets around! All my grandkids have a Samsung and are so happy with all it has to offer. I highly recommend this tablet!!!
4|Use at a time clock at work. Tablet works great just little small.
4|Lots of fun and easy for kids to use to. We like it
5|No Complaints from me, another great product from Samsung.
5|For being not very good with technology I found this easy for my 6 year old grandson to figure out. Which has made it a great choice.
4|easy to use, bright colors, good camera, hd isn't bad.
4|For my first tablet I think it's great. I am learning how to use it and have not had any problems as of jet. I would recommend it to anybody.
5|Love the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 already. Wife is using it much more than expected.
5|Bought tablet for my 6 yr old daughter. She loves it. Easy to use. No problems with it at all. I have put several apps on it and she loves it.
5|Previously I had been using a Kindle tablet. I bought this as my kindle had stopped working properly, I needed something I could use read my books on, and still access the internet since I used my kindle for school. This has far exceeded my needs, and I would definitely recommend, or purchase another myself.
5|I originally did not want to spend more than $50 on a tablet for my 6 year old (who just wants to play Plants Vs.Zombies 2 and Minecraft on it), but I am now glad I went for this Samsung. I purchased the advertised 7" Digiland for $40, and that was a waste of time since the cheap thing would never load up once turned on (even after charging to 100%). With that failed attempt with a cheap tablet, I decided I better just splurge for a name brand I know will work. So for $129, my son now has a smooth running, great wifi reception, app playing tablet with beautiful graphics and good battery life. I guess you get what you pay for.
5|The tab 4 is a nice up grade from the tab 2. It is only a 7 in screen which is the only drawback.
5|Surprised my husband with this for Christmas and he absolutely loves it!
4|Got for my husband so can look on the web when needs to
4|No as intuitive as I hoped, but overall appreciated the product.
4|There is still some work to be done in my opinion but overall it is a great tablet. I just don't like the Samsung apps. Wish ya could delete them
5|Great Tab. My twin daughters enjoy it. I like Samsung products.
5|When a phone is too small and a 10" tablet is like a lap top you get a Tab 4, 7.0". For myself the larger screen works well with my banking app. The Nook app I have loaded now allows me more freedom, don't have to carry several books on a trip. This is the 3rd Samsung product we have purchased and are well satisfied with each.
5|Great product very easy to use i love this product
5|Very nice tablet without the expensive price tag of the Ipad.
4|Bought this for my father and it is the perfect device for what he uses it for. However I had it shipped to me and when I got it the box looked like it was ravished by a wildabeast, but the product was fine
5|We got this for our 15 year old son for Christmas. It's only been a few days but it is holding up much better than the off brand one he got 2 years ago.
5|Not too bulky and was able to link all of my Samsung phone apps directly to tablet.
5|Samsun table Galaxy 4 is good for a low price, basic do the same as brand expensive one.
5|The person that received it loves it and uses it everyday.
5|This is the second Samsung tablet my son has owned and I consider it to be well worth the money spent.
5|This was a great tablet only we asked for a white one and we got a black one inside the box but I think someone switched them out but all that matters is that my daughter is happy.
5|Gifts for one of my managers at work, great value and price.
5|A gift for my daughter in law. She wanted "just" a reader but has been overjoyed with so much more Even the grandkids are totally enjoying the Samsung, when they can get it away from Mommy.
4|Not so easy for a new user. If help files were easier to access, or if it were just more genuinely intuitive, I'd have no problem. Good size for everything but films you'd rather see on a bigger screen.
5|Good all arlund tab. Not super hi tech but works great
5|Brought it on sale and it is Working good, reliable. This is my 8th Samsung balaxy
5|My daughter loves her new tablet, it has been working perfectly fine!
4|Great beginner tablet for someone who's "technically" challrnged.
3|Bought as a gift but doesn't compare to my 10 inch tab s2, so average.
5|Very happy to get it at a good price and it does it job well
5|Had to get one for my grandson! Bought one for my granddaughter as well! Easy for them to navigate without all the advertisements that you get on some tablets!
5|this tablet is great and compact to hold. im mainly using it for the diagnostic tool for my cars
4|love it and the size makes it easy to carry around
5|Much better than the tab 3. Also has better video quality than some of the newer models
5|Excellent product, love this tab product very much
3|I would give it 5 stars but don't like speaker in the back
4|The Galaxy Tab 4 7" tablet is great for reading, surfing the Internet or just playing games.
5|I purchased this item as a gift for my nephew.. I asked him to choose between other brands but he chooses this one..,
4|I would recommend this for Children who love games
5|The best in it's class, simply awesome.5stars loved it
5|I bought the Galaxy Tab 4 as a gift for my parents and they have been able to easily use it. They really enjoy it and have not had any issues
5|Beautiful picture and the size is perfect. Great buy!
5|I bought this as a gift and he really likes it. It's small, so it's easy to take with you.
5|Purchased it for a Christmas gift and they were so excited with it
4|This Tablet was for my 12 year old son and it was perfect for him. Not much memory, but upgradable with micro SD card. Bought a 2nd for myself and may buy a 3rd. Great tablet for the price
5|Love samsung tablets bought it for my son xmas present and he lives his new tab.
5|Bought it for my husband, he loves it and it's easy to use!
5|have two now. works great. bought sd card for more storage. good tablet!
5|I am very satisfied with this product will recomend it to a friend
5|This tablet is a very good one its camera is good n the processor is fast tablet doesn't lag very fast jus memory is very little but it's a good table!!
5|This was for my son I compared it to the iPad and decided there wasn't enough of a difference to justify buying a $400 iPad.
4|Missing SIM card feature. Necessarily you should be in wifi zone access internet
5|I would prefer Samsung tablets as I have been using samung smartphones and tablets for more than 10 years now. This tablet I got for my first daughter 7 years old and she loves it.
5|My first time owning an Android item and I love it. Works well and has stuff my Windows wants me to pay extra to make available. Ease of use and awesome size. So happy got my husband one too.
4|My ten year old was able to use it very easily. Great buy .
5|I really like this little tablet. Small but big enough
5|I bought this one in black because I already owned a white one and wanted to get my sister a gift. It's such a great tablet
5|I brought this for my 10yr old and he is enjoying it.
5|Inexpensive tablet that has a nice clear screen. Easy to work with for adults and kids
4|Nice entry level product. Easy to use, especially if you like galaxy phones.
5|Good quality faster amazing apps help me a lot with everything I need!!
4|I love that it can have different users so my son can only use apps I let him!!
5|No problem with my new tablet and love how it looks and good price
5|Got this for my 9 year old for Christmas. It was a big hit. It's a good size, especially for a smaller person. Runs on android operating system so is easy to navigate.
5|I purchased this tablet for my tween neice. This is her second one since the first was stolen. She can text play games, and download movies with the expansion card. Priced at less than $150, it's cheap in comparison to an iPad. Great Christmas gift for a kid and won't break the bank.
5|Quality tablet with all the features needed at a great price
5|I looked around for a quality tablet to get. This one had good reviews and I had an in store demo from the sales assoc.
5|I bought it for my daughter and she totally loves it
5|Great size and performance at a super price point.
5|Great first tablet for kids 10+. Easy set up. Good graphics.
5|I purchased two tablets for my children and they work great. I would recommend this tablet to anyone.
5|This is a good small tablet. I bought this for my 9 year old. You can use all internal memory for apps not just 1 GB like some other tablets.
4|It was a big switch from iPhone to this, but learning to use it and learning to like it.
4|User friendly. The 3 buttons of samsung is really good!
5|Although, we returned for a different product. Highly recommend for others looking for a small tablet for roadtrips. We upgraded to a slightly larger variant that worked better for us.
5|I LOVE MY TABLET I LIKE IT THE SIZE AND EASY TO USE. :)
5|Purchased for my kids for Christmas. The screen is brighter and has a better operating system than their previous Samsung Tablets. We were also happy that it had a Micro SD slot vs the previous version.
5|It has a kid mode where you can download kid friendly apps. Great for my daughter. Pretty good games. a lot of teaching basic games and memory games. Also has like a coloring book app.
4|I bought it for my Niece for Christmas gift and they made price match
5|So far my kids love it! Gave both my boys one each for Christmas. So far they haven't put down. An they are learning to read an do homework on it! Very pleased with it so far!
4|Good little tablet for games and simple internet connectivity via WiFi
4|Is a good product, camera could be better but worth for the price
5|This works so far just the way I wanted it to. Seeing I just got this yesterday I have not had much time to use it
5|I like the tablet. It works great for what I'm using it for. Great buy !!!
4|light years better than all the cheap, not worth it, tablets, i'm looking at you Nextbook
4|I use it mostly for business when I have to somewhere is fits easily and perfectly in my bag. It can sync to my other Samsung devices. No issues thus far.
4|It's a great tablet the speed and space could be better but is the best for the price. Ordered a 32gig micro SD card for it and it is about perfect lol
4|A perfect laptop for 12 year old students. They enjoy doing their homework now.
4|This is a Xmas gift that is hoped to be loved. I'm sure they will love it.
5|Got three of them for my kids and they are great. I am now a huge fan of Samsung and Android.
5|works great. i have been an IOS user since the first iphone and found that using the tab on droid was very simple and responsive
5|Got this for my wife for Christmas and I am an avid user of Samsung products.
5|Excellent tablet. Works flawlessly. Nice bright screen.
4|Great little tablet for kids on the go. Bought for my son he loves it.
5|This is a great tablet. Sturdy and easy to use. Bought 3 of these. One for myself and 2 for grand daughters. They love them.
5|I was surprised by how the picture looks. It's perfect for my daughter she loves it
3|The tablet itself works fine. I have noticed a lot of the apps I try to use on this tablet lag though. :(
4|only had it about a day but i couldnt wait to try it out and im loving it so far
5|A good deal on such quality; made a perfect Christmas gift!
4|good quality tablet with a great screen, my kids love it
5|I love it. I think it's an amazing product at an affordable price.
4|Bought this tablet for myself to have a small entertainment unit and it has been great. Runs Netflix and other entertainment apps fine, the only problem I had was with bigger apps like Hearthstone taking up a lot of space. It's a great tablet to have around the house for fun.
5|I loved my Galaxy 3s. But, even after replacing the battery, it was having trouble keeping up with everything I needed it to do. So, I finally upgraded-- and was impressed with the capabilities of the new phone! This phone is easily one of the best purchases I have ever made.
5|It's nice and convenient for kids. Not too small or heavy!
4|I recommend this type of tablets for fun and educational purposes. Samsung is well known for its quality and this is no exception. Excellent product!. i'd prefer more internal memory, and even when you can expand it through the SD card it will slow it a little bit.
5|I have 6 daughters and we have 4 of these devices at home. The simplicity, durability and price point are ideal. The Android O/S allows us to set up individual accounts on each of the devices with restrictions and limits which give us total peace of mind. And when it comes to warranty issues, Samsung delivers. We had an issue with one of the devices and it was past the warranty period by 2 weeks. Smasung issued us a one time waiver and replaced the device free of charge. I would definitely recommend the Galaxy Tab 4 - 7"
5|I have always loved Samsung tablets and this one is no different
4|My stepson did his research and identified the device that fit him best. It worked out great.
5|I need to return the item. I do not need it anymore. the person the gift was for is no longer in my life
5|We wanted something cheaper than an iPad for our autistic daughter who is hard on her devices. This is cheaper than purchasing an iPad or iPod for that matter, and just as robust. Love the parent controls that come with it, too!
5|Got it as a gift and they seem very satisfied, which in turn pleases me.
5|I bought it for my daughter she loves it..........
5|Works perfectly for my needs. Also expandable memory is a plus
5|I got this tablet for free when I purchased a phone and I love it. I use it on daily basis and have no complaint.
5|Own several Samsung tablets - absolutely love them all, easy to setup, install apps, operate exactly they I want a tablet to operate.
4|Good tablet for the beginner that needs to surf the internet
5|I love Samsung i have the note 10 galaxy tab 3 and 4 and the Samsung phones plus the tv
5|a really cool tablet not so very expensive and it a great tool
3|It's a great tablet, I love all Samsung products, I bought this for my toddler which is a huge step up from the Nabi. Only concern is that I have a problem with charging straight out the box, very slow then didn't charge. I restarted the tablet and so far it's charging fast, but won't hold a charge, with my son usage, it may last 2 hrs at a time, which is fine for me, but would like it to last long enough for me to enjoy when he goes to sleep!
5|Samsung has great products great product for the price
3|This tablet is running on Kitkat and no updates available for lollipop as they mentioned. And responsiveness is not that great
5|I purchased a tablet for my 5 year old to free my phone up when he wants to watch YouTube videos and play games. He made the jump from the Note 4 to the Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 with ease, exact same button layout just bigger. Things I like, I can link my Google Account to this tablet and monitor what he is doing. He can not download anything or open anything that isn't on the approved list. The included app "Kids Mode" is what made me get this Galaxy Tab over the iPad Mini. As far as use the tablet runs YouTube and Play Store games beautiful and is the perfect size for a child. My Note 4 was too small and my S2 was too big. This tablet fits between those size perfect and his 5 year old hands can hold the tablet with ease. If you're thinking of going with a cheaper tablet just spend the extra money and get a quality product. The last thing that drove me to get this over other cheaper tablets was the battery life, we are currently getting a full day of use, Waking up and playing games, a mid-day YouTube show before nap, and the nightly windown before bed playing on the tablet. This tablet has earned my approval and has my 5 year old entering the digital age with parental controls and ease of use, get one!
5|I bought this tablet for me last year and I love it. If you just need a simple tablet for web browsing, reading, etc. then it's perfect. Decided to get another one for my mom for Christmas since it was on sale.
5|Picked this up for my 6yr old son on Black Friday for $119 which was a great price. I almost got one for myself just because, but I have a Samsung Note 4 so I figured it would be pointless. This tablet is absolutely amazing. If your looking for a great compact high end tablet then this is the one. Don't let those iPad prices fool you into thinking they're better based on price. Apple products even though they are great are ridiculously over priced IMO.
4|It's nice and convenient for kids. Not too small nor heavy! Good overall!
5|I want's to buy a tablet or ipad i can't decide which one what I like samsung galaxy tab 4-7-8gb it's great tab thanks
4|I wanted a 'reader' that was small enough to hold in one hand yet gave me the versatility to get B&amp;amp;N or Amazon books. I love it. The reason I only gave it a 4* was that the OS is not up-gradable.
5|I bought this tablet for my 2 year old. No issues so far.
4|Very good buy. Bought for mr grandsons and they love it
4|Completely works for what we need it for. Easy to use The kids love it
5|Best tablet for the price. I have played with several tablets being a tech and absolutely love the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4
5|It's fast and easy to use. I had a previous tablet and this one is so much faster and only a little more expensive
5|Great color easy to use and just a completely great product
5|The new Home Entertiment system really works great
5|I bought this for my foster daughter and she loves it . She takes it everywhere and uses it all day long for her music school work information and games too!
5|This tablet has great graphics. My grandson loves it. I'm glad the store associate told me about it.
5|Very pleased with the tablet and the associate, who went over the product as well as taught the class. HAPPY I AM!!
5|fast and smooth processor.. great clarity and the size is easy to hold
4|Excellent tablet for web browsing. Great size for carrying in purse and big enough screen not to strain your eyes.
5|I was in the market for a tablet and decided on the Galaxy over the IPad Mini. I'm glad I did.
5|Very user-friendly and got it at an excellent price.
5|i get this tablet for my son, is a great one. my son is happy. the tablet has a quick response, good memory, i will like a better camera but is fine.
4|Use it for phantom 3 drone. Works well with app no conection issues at all.
5|Couldn't get the newest tablet but this does the job and I love it.
4|Light weight, good battery and ample processor. Recommend.
4|Bought this for my young niece. It proved to be very engaging for her. She played with it continuously and never put it down.
4|This was my first time purchasing and using a tablet. I received advice from son and went with the Galaxy. I used it traveling and it was just what I wanted. My only regret was that I didn't spend the extra to get the next larger tablet.
5|This tablet is the best size for our 5 year old son, he navigates through it really well and he loves it! But I think we (parents) love it more, great price, great buy!
5|I love that the tablet is just a perfect size to fit into my purse and has the feature of front and rear facing camera so I can Skype with my family and friends. Another benefit is the expandable memory, since I love taking videos and pictures.
5|Perfect tablet for the whole family...kids mode also makes for a great way to limit what your kids are getting into.
5|Works great easy to set up , bright screen works great
5|I did a lot of research for a good mid level tablet and this one was the winner. I am very happy with my purchase and would recommend this tablet to anyone in the market.
5|I have used my Tab 4 for about 3 months now and find myself carrying it around everywhere. I originally bought it for a reading tablet but it has turned into much more. Excellent tablet and perfect size. I highly recommend it.
4|Purchased to play music over speakers at business. No issues so far.
5|Bought this as a birthday present for my 10 year old. Much cheaper than an iPad and does a great job of keeping him entertained on long car trips.
4|Meets my needs, not the fastest out there but handles the apps I need
4|Good for my kids.they have no trouble use it. They love use it for educational
5|I just needed to get a memory card and it is awesome.
5|Great tablet. Is on the smaller side but love it. Great picture
3|everything I have is apple based. other than that it was ok
5|This tablet was bought to replace a Samsung 3.0 which no longer charged. I love Samsung products.
5|I was looking for a smaller tablet for portability. This was an excellent choice. Works great
4|Perfect for my daughter to use daily. Checks email, plays apps, and great as reader. Got it on sale, and love what it offers. Added a 16gb card to add her favorite music.
5|Easy to use, the addition of memory is always a plus.
4|This was purchased for a friend of my son's who raves about it!
3|I know when I bought this that it would be outdated, but I figured I would still be able to get updates, but that is not the case. This is running a version of Android that is 3 years old and will not allow me to upgrade to anything newer. Tablet is also very slow, will not play .gif or .gifv images unless downloaded and played in integrated video player. Also, not sure why, but snapchat video only works on front facing camera and not rearfacing
5|Extremely happy with the servixe i got and i am enjoying my tablet
5|easy to setup and easy to use. will buy the next version.
5|I got this for my son he will be 4 in December and he loves it and it's so easy for him to use cause its just like my phone just bigger I definitely would recommend it for a child or adult! !!
5|Good value for a smaller tablet. Decent battery life
3|love the item this will be our 2nd one that we purchase
5|Good for kids...easy to us......able to add memory
5|Great device, easy to use, the screen is so clear No complaint So far so good
5|It has many more features, that I look for, over the "generic" brands. You do pay more, but, you get what you pay for.
5|My husband and I bought this tablet for our goddaughter who lives in states afar. She is able to Skype us when she wishes, all at the convenience of a button. It's small enough for her small hands, yet big enough to where she won't lose it.
5|Price is right, my daughters love it, so I'm a happy man...
5|The best on the market!! 100% satisfied. I would highly recommend this to everyone.
5|I have used this mainly to download games that I used to play on my phone. This is much easier on the eyes.
5|Excellent Tab. Easy to use functions, great Apps. My kids love it!
4|Love this new tablet it's sleek and easy to use you won't be disappointed
4|had to but a other brand first with problems-but this is great
4|I bought my tablet for the soul purpose of helping me with my travels this last vacation. Let me tell you that I was don't disappointed in the least by its performance. Great tool...sometimes fun too
3|I was looking for a tablet that I could use to read ebooks while lying in bed or sitting in my recliner. I own an iPad and an iPad mini, and both seem a little heavy to hold and read. I compared the kindle and other tablets, but the kindle was out because I wanted to listen to music while reading. I decided to choose the Galaxy Tab 4-7 because of its size and price. The Tab 4-7 fit perfectly for the size and weight. But, if you intend on using it to surf the internet, it is dreadfully slow. I often find myself waiting for pages to load. For my purposes, it works just fine. Just wish it was faster.
3|I purchased this because I really liked the size. I was looking for something similar to the iPad Mini, but not at that price! The screen is awesome on the Galaxy and I like the aps, however, there is one very big problem with it. 8 GB of ROM is not enough! The operating system takes well over half! You can store music, pictures, books, etc on a micro sd card, but it will not allow you to put aps on there. If I had known that I probably would not have purchased it. If it had at least 16 GB I would easily give it 5 stars and highly, highly recommend.
2|Storage is sub standard to me and the inability to save anything to the external sd card due to the 4.4 OS. This also makes it incompatible with several apps that I bought it for. Samsung seems content to not upgrade this tablet which is two updates behind now. Other than that, the screen looks crisp in most cases.
5|Great tablet with expandable memory. Decent camera, and very responsive.
5|Bought for friend easy to use and great buy first android
4|This is my second tablet, I returned the first one because I realized that I was trying to replace my laptop. It didn't work out. I loved it, but I needed a bigger screen. So, after years of refusing to purchase a tablet (why do you need a tablet when you have a phone AND a computer?), I finally caved and went for it. I got it at a discounted, "open box/display" price and I'm happy with it. It's the "in between" that I love. Bigger screen than my phone and lighter than my laptop. I find that I like use it when I don't feel like being on my laptop and when I need to actually see it bigger than on my phone. It's great and I don't have to have a contract. I just wait until I'm in a wi-fi area, or I turn my phone into a hotspot. It gets a 4 out of 5 because it's not the latest and greatest, but I'm cool with that. Also, no issues, but I'm not looking for any. It does what I need. Again, I do have a phone and a laptop.
5|I purchased my grandson the Samsung Galaxy tab last year. This year I purchased my grand-daughter the same tab. The resolution is great quality and is very user friendly. They both enjoy having there very own tabs and will be able to utilize them not only for everyday use but for educational purposes as well. A great investment.
5|Light weight, easy to use tablet. Large screen for easy viewing.
2|Speakers and super quiet , and screen takes forever to load going in and out of apps . I dpoint have a lot of storage which is a bummer and so therefore I don't have all the apps as I want. Pretty lame. The battery dis quiet quickly so I bring the charger everywhere I go. I want to return this so bad but I am toops lazy I guess, oh and the camera has horrid resolution so don't even think about zooming in.....
5|I looked at others that were more expensive but decided on this one and I'm very happy with it.
4|The screen cracke in just 2 to 3 weeks but still going. Let it keep going till it won't work
5|My niece loves her be tablet, very slim and not heavy at all. She can navigate easy and add apps easily. My sister likes the parent control feature too.
4|The Galaxy tab 4 was a gift. I am still learning how to use it. its pretty cool, the screen size is just big enough for me.
5|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 delivers satisfying performance for web browsing and casual gaming, and has a pretty good screen, for ja reasonable price. It is a fine choice for a budget tablet, but it's ultimately bested by great older devices.
5|my 6 year old navigates and works it easily. I am able to have my own user and keep the harmful stuff away from him.
4|Bought this tablet for my father, he loves it. Simple to use and not too expensive.
4|6 Months Later this tablet still works like new. You pay what you get, some recent apps don't work on this tablet, but if you want a tablet that can still play games, study and do work on then this is the tablet for you
5|Bought it for my 6 year old niece and she loves it. She plays with it all day long.
5|My father uses this tablet. Checks his e-mail, read the news, check craigslist, and Google Video-Chat with his grand daughter. So far, so good, after over a year of use. Looks like it should have another year without any problems! For the price, you can't complain.
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is one of the best I have used.
4|Lets me read with black light versus kindle paperwhite.
5|My step son opted for the smaller screen to get a Galaxy within his budget, and even he (at 9 years old) has noticed the difference between it and the Insignia his sister uses.
5|Recently joined the Peace Corps and this tablet has everything I need to stay connected to family back home.
5|This tablet works great for any age. My kids use it to browse the internet and watch you tube videos.
5|This is a nice device for use in college class as long as you are connected to WIFI. The WIFI range is not long my phone will have a connection and the tablet will not. Does not cause much inconvenience nice size screen for on the go. screen resolution is nice watch movies on it all the time
5|I buy all Samsung product I have all my tv ,washer,dryer. I have never had a problem with Samsung
4|needed a tablet to use with my drone. this one has a good size screen for this purpose, both physically and screen size. one bad point the screen is not visible in the sun, you must work from a shady spot.
5|I bought this tablet for my 3 years old son but this laptop was impressive, fast colorful. And the end I decided to get 2 them 1 for me and 1 for my son
5|My daughter loves this tablet, the educatuonal apps help her with learning the needed words to help with reading
4|Needed a tablet, had experience with Samsung phones, set up was very similar and easy to use.
4|Have had no problems would definitely recommend to my friend
5|I've always had Samsung devices phone, T.V. and now a tablet. Samsung is a great brand!
4|Fifty: nifty words to say is quite much just for a review that is explained astutely in the abovementioned box. Supper that's
5|We bought this item after already owning a couple of Tab 3's and many other Samsung items and have had little problems with them.
5|Very useful Tab. Price for this tab is very reasonable.
4|It's a great device. Has low end ram 1 gig and system processes require 3.25 gigs of the 8 gig storage. Other than that it runs great, does games well and has a nice display.
5|We are very happy with what we purchased. The training on it was most helpful.
5|Tablet is awesome and the screen has phenomenal color and clarity.
4|Bought this tablet last month as a gift for my step son. While it's quick enough and handles most games fine, I was sold this tablet under the impression it came other a "kids mode" app or profile pre-loaded on the device, or at least available from Samsung. I guess after looking into it, Samsung had previously made it available but pulled it from the devices.
4|Nice gift for daughter. It was actually the one she was looking for, so win win.
5|Great tablet perfect size. Would recommend to anyone
5|Great tablet for the price. Used by entire family.
4|I bought this tablet to Gane with and I loved it. It has worked great since I have had it.
4|Very easy to use. Nice for photos and mobile email.
5|Pro Great battery life, can play all the kid games Con not as light as some other 7 inch screens tab
5|A good product for the price....not a full tablet but good for my teen
5|Love Samsung they know how to make a great product. I have 3 Samsung tablets in the house now including this one all work great no problems at all.
3|Still learning how to use this item. Needed it for my job, for a specific Program to be installed on it. A bit challenging. Like the size. Easy portability. Seems pretty easy to use once you get the hang of it. I will know more after I have used it longer.
5|I bought this tablet for my teenager. We are presently surprised with how well it works. If you are looking for a very good entry level tablet that actually works with games, etc then this is the tablet for you.
3|This device is good for students to access digital text books, Internet and research.
2|Was a gift. It does the basics but trying to convert it to different lnguages is hard and most languages impossible.
5|iPad = old and busted. Samsung = new hotness. Get a samsung.
5|We got it for both of my nieces, ages 6 and 10. They spent a lot of time playing games on it and making their own videos and photos. Make sure and buy the Otter Box Case for it to protect it.
5|Use the tablet daily , does everything I need, love it
4|Overall I am satisfied with the table, except for the camera quality, I will be returning it to find a tablet with a better quality camera
5|It was easy to set up the programs I needed and some that are bonus to me.
5|I am enjoying my Samsung very much. Now I can lie in my bed and use it instead of my desktop. Apps are great and connection is perfect.
4|I wish it had more memory but overall it's a good tablet
4|This product was purchased as a raffle give away for a client. The winner has enjoyed it and thinks it is well worth the price.
5|Great compact size . sound quality good, and screen colors nice and bright. Easy to use
3|I was looking for a smaller device, that was android and bigger than a phone. I looked at lots of reviews and it came close to the top of all the lists. I think it's is a little to small and I haven't found a comfortable way to use it yet.
5|I love my new tablet. It is everything I was promised and expected.
5|I am very impressed with this tablet. I could've have brought a better tablet my kids really love it
5|Easy to operate great features great size and shape
5|My child loved the tablet it's easy to used and it's a great brand
2|I cracked the glass on my Kindle Fire. Since I love my Samsung Galaxy S5 phone so much, I decided to get the Tab 4 to replace my Kindle. I am very disappointed. It constantly lags, drops out of wifi constantly, and if I try to read an article through an app, I can't adjust the font. I frequently end up picking up my phone and using it. I really wanted to like this thing.
4|This was to my father, and he is very happy with it
5|This is a really good tablet and very easy to use. I was able to sync it with my phone and now have all my information backed up.
5|excellent tab for the price and small screen. easy to use interface.
5|Got this tablet for my 11 yr old granddaughter and she LOVES it. Web, games, and mostly she likes to make her own videos.
4|Good product for the price, resolution is ok, size a bit small.
3|I was looking for something to read with and this definitely fits the bill. I also wanted to run a CAD program that runs on Android, but it's not capable because it only runs on Android 5.1 and this device has no updates past 4.4.2. Other than that hiccup, it works flawlessly!
4|Best purchase. Good like it ......................
4|I did some research before purchasing my new tablet. I was replacing my kindle. The Samsung sales representative was a lot of help. I'm very pleased with my selection. The only down side to this tablet is the kindle had a better speaker for listening to my music.
4|Wish it was compatable with Adobe flash player though.
5|I got this tablet for school and it functioned great. Very satisfied.
4|Tablet is good n works fast.. i am to smdownload without it freezing. . I
5|Android is a get system for me. All my electronic products are Samsung.
4|It was worth every cent I spend great product.Will pay many more items later
5|A GREAT tablet that I would highly recommend to anyone needing something a little more compact...
5|It was an easy online shopping experience and a fast pick up at my local store .
5|nice screen and easy to use,stay charged a long time
4|I bought these tablets for my boys and they have been simple enough for them to use ages 5 and 8
5|Works great and I installed nook app so I still have a reader plus all the other apps I need.
5|Purchased the Galaxy tablet for my 4 year old nephew's birthday, and he loves it; loves playing the games, hasn't had any problems!
5|Just bought this tablet, its fast picture quality is amazing. Bought this on sale. Price is much better than the Ipad Mini
5|This tablet works great for storing music for play on Bluetooth devices in the car as well as through our stereo at home. Our phone has the same capabilities but the battery runs down too quickly and we need our phone for use as a phone. The tablet has a long lasting battery and works better than phone for most uses.
5|I love this tablet. I use it for everything from shopping online, watching movies and YouTube, and e-reader. Clarity and color is excellent. I have a disability in one eye and have no trouble at all. Perfect size to fit in my purse.
5|I really enjoy Samsung products. I now have 4 Samsung tablets at home and the ease of use and reliability is second to none.
5|Everything you want and need in a small package. Highly recommended.
4|High quality graphics only downside is requires a strong WiFi signal
4|Like how i can connect to WiFi easy and play games
5|I bought this for my 3 year old. I realize there is a kids tablet, but i prefer the control i have with a regular tablet. Samsung offers kids mode, which allows me to download games from the google play store and then load them into his kids mode!.. The kids tablet has preset games and then you have to choose from preselected games in the kids marketplace. I don't like that. I found a bumper that is super protective and kid colorful.. I haven't had any issues and i love it for him and the price was really good for it being a samsung.
5|Love this tablet...it is easy to use, have had no issues with any of the functionality and is perfect for kids.
5|We wanted something smaller than a regular tablet. Bought this because it was convenient and easy to take along without it being bulky. It keeps the kids entertain when traveling.
5|It's got all I need and such ease using this phone. Haven't had any issues yet and it's delivering everything the reviews raved about. I'm Happy
5|It is a great device, very portable and is fast as lightning.
5|We purchased the Samsung tablet for my grandson, and he loves it. Uses it all the time. So far, he has not had any problems with it.
5|I really like my new tablet. I bought it to read books and it is perfect for that.
5|very easy product to use.I would recommend this for older adults
4|I work in wireless tech and play with these devices everyday. No one can compete with the screen response of Samsung. Though of course you can feel the difference between a $500 one and this one; but for the price, it is best
5|This tablet is good for everyday use for e-mail, music, streaming and multitasking functions. it works well with other mircasting devices and It can stream with your or remote into your phone with SideSync app. The screen is responsive and clear. This tablet is not a super power house but still has what is needed and has enough to handle whats about to come., Good Job Samsung. I will take this over an Apple any day.... Joe N
5|Great wifi tablet! Works fast on accessing the Internet and music. Takes good pictures and video.
4|This is a great product for so many different things. I mainly use it as a eReader and to access google drive.
5|Bought it as a gift for a child and she loves it...
5|My son loves it its perfect for school and for the car
5|Upgraded from Kindle The price was about $20 higher but the tablet had more features
5|Purchased this tablet for my 11yr old daughter as a birthday gift. She loves it and uses it every day. My son has the larger version and we have been very happy with the performance of both Samsung tablets.
4|Bought to replace a 7" Nook that died, I was assured that this unit would act "just like your reader but with more!" The "more" is there but the ease of finding a book (or an author) of the Nook is missing. Yes, it reads the files from my microSD card, but separately. JPRG on file, epub, another, and forget trying to sort by author! And it's heavier.... To bad BB no longer had the 7" readers, but I guess I'll muddle thru with this.
4|Was looking for something compact with a good price.... THIS WAS IT! Very happy with this product! Suits my needs perfectly.
3|The screen and features are great but takes a very long time to download apps
4|It has a great picture for playing games and doing work.
5|I am very happy with my purchase got it as a gift so they could pair it with a cell phone they are very happy Too
3|This tablet is sleek and very fast, fits perfectly in the hand, all buttons are in nice reach, battery life seems to last forever. But, it leaves one thing to be desired, USB host support. Other than that the tablet is perfect.
5|It does everything I want it to do. I do not use it for business or major projects. I use it for basic tasks and it does very well for what I want to do.
3|My 12 year old son likes it but he says that there is not enough internal space.
4|Brought this tablet for my niece and she loves it told me this tablet is the best gift she received. Camera great and used tablet to make calls online.
5|great tablet at a great price. have always had good luck with samsung products
4|Love this tablet...it is easy to use, have had no issues with any of the functionality and is perfect for kids.
4|Graphics and speed not quite as good as more expensive model but great for what I need.
5|prior to this we had a Kindle for our games and reading and mobile web surfing. this is so much better. We love the fact that you can add memory. With our Kindle you couldn't.
4|Easy ti use and more option to choose also good pic
1|One of the worst purchases I've ever made,won't stay conceded to the internet,it's very slow to do the simplest of tasks and for what it will do it was very expensive ,should of waited and whent somewhere and talked to some one with experience with tablets.
5|Tablet features are great. I love the TV remote control function. Perfect size for traveling because it fits in my purse. The movie quality is awesome whether I'm streaming or watching a downloaded movie. There are so many features I'm still discovering.
4|Good products - pragmatic...horrible service. I'll never go back again.
5|This tablet just plain ROCKS! It has plenty of RAM, and you can add a micro SD card to expand storage. It shows videos perfectly. Get it! You won't be disappointed!
5|I love the convenience of my tablet and phone because of using the hot spot off my phone and I use it most often to call people from the tablet.
5|GETTING USE TO THE TABLET, IT BEATS THE KINDLE I HAVE. GOOD FOR SLOTAIRE ALSO. GRAND KIDS TALKED ME INTO GETTING IT.
5|This Samsung Galaxy Tab is great for kids and adults. Great Camera
5|I enjoy these machines,. I have one also, only mine is an older one. It's a bigger machine than my husbands,but it says the same thing when I boot up.
5|My daughter and nephews love this product. It helps my nephews with school researchers a lot.
5|The tablet is great for young kids. My son is four and never before had a tablet.. And he got use to it fast.. But I am happy that I bought the insurance for it.
5|I use this tablet at work. It serves it's purpose well.
4|I love that the tablet is so thin. I can carry it with me anywhere.
4|Very compact but works just like a computer, like product alot.
5|Easy to learn how to use it and pictures are great for decorating a wall
5|Complete tab for all my Family, fast and clear resolution.
5|No complaints with the Galaxy Tab 4, it is responding well with all programs and apps I have installed on it.
4|Overall a very good tablet. Ideal size; bigger than phone but not too big. Only painful part was transferring all of my music from iTunes.
4|Easy to use tablet that could be used by children and beginners.
5|Decided to try this tablet after my iPad broke. This tablet hasn't disappointed. Great product!
4|I got it for my kids, it will play most recent android games very well.
4|I love everything about this tablet my son love it but the sound is too low
4|Good tablet except samsung devices come with way too many pre loaded apps. I turned off a couple dozen apps to prevent the device from freezing. Otherwise a great product.
5|overall like all aspects, like the quality of the pictures. My granddaughter like it to play games and text and talk to friends..
3|This is my first tablet and so far is good. Very clear and fast
5|Love it I can pay bills, read my email, book flights. Do anything instead of using my computer.
4|Good technology that allows my kid to watch Netflix &amp;amp; kid apps.
5|some confusion of usig sd card. tech support is excellent.
5|Fantastic tablet at a great price. Photo manipulation and game playing are exceptionally easy and Internet use is fast. Convenient and easy to handle.
1|I paid a lot for express shipping then once I get it here the wifi didn't work on it and I have a strong connection. The device was defective and I was disappointed
5|I love my new galaxy tablet. Along with my note 5 i am complete.
4|my son loves this tablet so much more than the older dell venue tablet he had! It is faster, the camera quality is better, and he uses it for YouTube viewing. He is very happy with it! Great purchase, do recommend for kids especially. Would be great for anyone really!
4|like to use the radar app for weather has a good pic for movies and like the cam its great. like to hear my music too it works for me happy so far
5|I love android software and I love this Samsung, it has a great camera, good price and a lot of apps
5|Awesome tablet you can put child lock and you don't need to worry about them going into other sites.
5|I like the color and size. It is perfect the battery life is good and I like the apps I can get.
5|This allows me to keep up to date with my business plans and getting all necessary documents required.
4|I enjoy the ease of taking pictures, the pictures are life like
3|Good tablet for simple tasks, not a big fan of the TouchWiz UI
5|This tablet is great for the price. Its cheap compared to others and works fabulous!
4|Great for my 8 years old. He plays games, surf the internet and see youtube videos. I love it myself.
5|From my experience with the Tab 4 thus far, I haven't realized any significant faults. The interface is easy to use, the size is just right without feeling too clunky, and I found its responsiveness to be quite good. Compared to my Kindle Fire HD7, I find the Tab 4 to be the better of the two.
4|my only real issues with this tablet is the installed memory, in this day and age it is hard to understand why we only get 1.5gb of installed ram for running programs. Other than that it serves it purpose of being small and convenient to use with one hand, always sitting on the coffee table ready to go.
5|This was a birthday gift for my daughter. She is thoroughly pleased with it and uses it every day.
4|As the tablet I had received as a gift from one of my daughters died I started looking for a replacement. The sales people that I spoke with were very helpful in my evaluations. I'm very pleased with the Samsung Galaxy Tab4 (7.0) that I purchased, it meets all I wanted it for, and then some.
5|I like the tablet its light and the colors are bright and clear. I hsve no problems with this tablet.
5|I bought this tab for my wife birthday, there's so many things this tablet can do, she still finding new things everyday, it was perfect for her needs. She uses it for homework and then she uses it for playing games, she can't get enough of it, great buy!!!
5|Great tablet to have considering it size and weight
3|Searching thru email is limited and can be very slow
5|My Samsung tablet and case are great, and I got a great price on both items,
4|Love the size, takes great pictures. Tons of apps and easy to usr
5|My son enjoys this easy to use tablet. Great pixels.
4|its a little on the small side but for the price it's good does everything I need it for
5|The galaxy tab 4.7 is just what I needed it beats a small cell or a laptop for portability and ease of use
5|I gave this product as a gift for my sister and she just loves it. I have many Samsung products and and love all of them. Samsung is the best product out there.
5|Bought this for my kids they have a blast on it, you can get kid friendly games where they can learn shapes and numbers, you can limit their usage with the kids app that is built into the tablet.
5|Great for games and face booking and taking pictures!
1|A lot of advertising from Samsung. Called the support line and no help . Very slow surfing the network. Don't bother buying, keep money in your pocket
4|Good size for a tablet. Large enough to provide a screen that is readable and small and light enough to carry easily. The applications pre-loaded were to Samsung-centric, and it took way to much time to rid my product of this junk.
5|took me a while to get used to Samsung products but easy to use once I got the hang of it. I've had this for a year and a half and it still works great!!
5|Amazing tablet, great prices , great customer service
5|I love my tab! It's fully functionally and perfect for bringing it everywhere with me
4|It's great tablet for basic tasks considering the low cost. It performs well and does what I need. If you need the latest and greatest you might want to spend a little more money and get a later model.
5|Excellent tablet with with Google it's everything I wanted .
5|I love this tablet ! It's easy to use . Perfect for any age
4|Works great a little slower than other tablets I've tried but overall great product.
5|It is samsung. I like samsung products. I have Fires, iPads, etc. I got 30 of these for a company product after testing a single unit and bring satisfied with it. The interface is sharp and the price point is not bad. You can surf, email, netflix, etc. So just buy one of these and say goodbye to those old clothes that won't fit anymore, social skills, and personal hygiene. Enjoy.
5|This little tablet has provided hours of entertainment for the price! Felt we got our money's worth within the first couple of weeks! There are some neat apps that are Samsung exclusive, and the Google Play store is loaded - We have even watched movies on our big-screen tv from this little tablet (from a free movie app) with the help of a smart-stick "casting" device. Easy to use and very portable to take most anywhere - Samsung is more affordable than the competition and our family doesn't miss the fact that it is not an Apple product!
5|surprise gift for my husband. He absolutely loves it.
4|This is the second Samsung tablet I have purchased the first one was a gift for a friend she liked it so much that when I got one for myself I did not consider any other model
3|tablet runs slow or what apps are added somewhat disappointed but ok for 7 year old
5|This was easy to set-up and to continue using. I would recommend to anyone.
5|I got this for one of my boys for doing good in school and he loves it.Good for all ages.
4|While traveling we could not get on line with the motels WIFI.
5|I bought this tablet for my daughter's birthday for use as an e-reader and general use tablet. She loves it and it has proven to be more durable that I had expected. Setup was simple and once connected to WiFi, the device needed an update which did not take long to complete. After she was online, she was off and running, reading books and playing mobile games. On a recent visit to a friend's house, after talking about maybe buying a case or cover for it, she dropped it... twice, from a height of about 3 feet. The first time she dropped it onto a hardwood floor and next onto carpet. The tablet was not even scratched, which is more than I can say for my nerves. Pros: Easy setup for WiFi and accounts; it restored her basic settings from her Android phone and downloaded her favorite apps. Surprisingly solid. Cons: very little memory, but the micro SD slot can hold up to a 32Gb card.
5|Does everything I need it to. Great size that I can fit in my purse.
5|We bought this tablet to go on trips and it's great! My toddler loves it and it's easy to use.
4|it has excellent screen and good camera compare its price.
4|Bought this for my 3 year old son so he would stop asking to mess with my wife and my phones. The kids mode is perfect for him
5|Its very good having this product. you can take any where you want.
4|My son loves it and plays games on it all the time and the lag is not as bad as before
4|This tablet is perfect for the kids and is priced right. Used the extra money saved to buy microSD for expansion memory and case which is very much needed especially for kids use. Spent less then $150 for a complete package and for a happy kid.
5|I purchased this Tablet for my son. My daughter already had one and if makes it easier on road trips if they both have them. They don't fight over who gets to use it. This like any other Samsung product is amazing. I will continue to buy their products.
5|I bought this for my 9 year old sons birthday. It runs great, plays all the games he likes, and you can't beat the price.
5|My experience with my galaxy tablet is fantastic. I view movies, facebook, internet shopping,estesy and everything i need.
5|this tablet lived up what is advertised to do and more.
4|Fast, Good Looking Android device with a large screen.
5|I like it very much it was very easy to set up and operated
5|MY SON LOVES IT,!!!!!!, we made the right choice,i;m glad he really likes his present
5|This was a great product. Battery is awesome. Used for my kids
5|This Galaxy tablet works great, the size was nice based on my taste. The memory is not big, but I suppose that it can be increased.
4|I love samsung products And price was great. Very happy with it
4|This tablet works great. As good as any tablet that sells for $100 or $200 more. Just know that it takes about 6hrs to charge from 10% - 100%. I just charge it at any time I can. Battery life is amazing so it makes sense that takes a long time to charge. Android works well and I really like the leather back. It gets 4 stars because the resolution of the screen looks a little lower than I expected.
3|Bought this tablet for my cousin for christmas, he is nine and loves using it. Great tablet for someone who isn't too picky on the software they get
4|Bought it for my 10 year old son and he absolutely loves it.
4|Good features in reasonable price. Nice quality display.
5|I had a tablet 3 and it got wet at the beach and there is no way I could go without another one.
5|Purchased for my 7 yr old so he won't have to borrow wife's Samsung Galaxy S5 phone to play games etc. This device was perfect for him as it has lots of memory for his game apps etc. Now he and wife are happy.
5|I chose this one because I like that I have full access to the app store, not just what the kids tablets tell me I can have access too. My 4 year old like to download games and take this on the plane and on car trips. She has dropped it several times and it has not broken at all.
4|I purchased this for simple things such as gaming and surfing the web. It's great!
5|I bought this for my parents who aren't that techie, they love it, very easy to set up and get rolling.
5|Great product, we used the Samsung Tablets as monitors.
5|Grandchildren are fun to buy for. My grandson just loves this tab and it keeps him busy. Gives him a break from summer reading assignments.
5|I bought this as a present for my nephew and the price was good. My nephew loves it. The screen is pretty awesome and the games he plays on there are visually amazing. Great buy
4|This was a great and not too pricy tablet for my 7 yr old son. It cost a bit more than the other "cheaper" tablets available but has the reliability of a Samsung. Runs all the apps he likes and is not the "baby" version (Samsung Kids Tab7) that I got his little sister.
4|works well, would buy next tablet with more memory
5|surprise gift for my husband who is just starting to enjoy this type of technology. Easy to setup. Easy to use. He never leaves home without it.
5|Great tablet for my daughter and the learning games
3|Samsung Galaxy Tab is not what I expected. It is better to wait for their next model.
4|I bought this tablet to replace kindle my son broke. It has been nice and have had no problems with it. We use it mainly for Netflix. no complaints
4|Like all Samsung products, the quality on this device is unbelievable. The oly drawback I see is the initial memory the device holds, and maybe the screen size (but i knew I was getting a small one, so you get what you look/pay for lol). It's compact, and the video playback is amazing. I would reccommend if you are looking for a tablet in this size! I would pick it over the kindle fyi lol.
5|Very good tablet for my grandchild who is 5 and is able to understand it better than me.
5|Had a Tab 3, gave it to my son, missing having one so got the tab 4 and its better love it.
5|loved it, easy to carry around, not a heavy item. i
3|This tablet is not high end but it is a good deal for the money. Like others I have experiences issue while using various apps it appears to lose connection so I just turn off wifi and turn it back on and it solves the issue,
5|My boys love these tablets, they do everything they want, and keeps them busy for hours.
4|I love the size of it the display is nice and clear
4|My Samsung tablet is the right size for me. It is great for all that I use it for like playing games, watching movies and going online. Its compact enough to put it in my purse and carry it wherever I go.
5|Best 7 inch tablet on the market for it's price, it may be small for some people but it gets the job for me as a student. 10/10
3|Bought as an open box item for my dad as his 1st tablet, easy to use and navigate. No complaints.
5|Enjoy, easy to use. Nice price for everything this item can do.
5|I have had this tablet a little while now. I have used it for many things from Movies to Social Media. Every time I use it, it was perfect. I need to get one that has the option of carrier, as in ATT, Verizon, Straighttalk, etc, now.
5|I am an iPad owner and thought this would be a grave disappointment but far from it. This tablet was very user friendly and quick to setup. Packed with a a lot of great features for the price. Being able to expand memory as needed is a feature I wish I had the option of on my iPad. I wish they could get it to sync as easy and quickly as an iPad, but a very small trade off for what you get. Overall very satisfied.
4|This tablet is awesome! I completed my résumé with this tablet
5|Birthday present for my son, and he loves it more than his kindle
4|Nice sleek design, great when i travel, i can control my tv with it
4|This is by far one of the best budget tablet. Nice
4|I love my tablet! Perfect size for me but I wish it had the led light to let me know when I have a notification or when my tablet is charged. Overall I would recommend this product
5|Great tablet for galaxy, easy to use, good size, not too big and has great battery life.
5|Bought this Samsung tablet as I was tired of running the battery down on my phone. Had it up and running in no time flat. Very user friendly and easy to take wherever I'm going.
5|We could not be happier! This is our second one and we use them for the kids! I personally prefer them over the ipads!
5|A great starting tablet for general use. I use it to access my email, play music, and web browsing.
5|Bought for my son's 13th Birthday. It works great, fast and durable. He absolutely loves it!
4|This is my first tablet, very helpful manuel on the web on how to use
5|I use Square and they did an update that no longer accepted my 3s iphone, so after a lot of research, this tablet was the most affordable, cost effective, and user friendly to run the Square program.
5|I purchased this as a gift for my dad. He is 67 years old and he just love it... it was super easy for him to learn how to use it and the best is that it synched with his phone. He was very happy. This is a product for all ages. I want one for myself now.
4|I'm using this for school and it's really light weight and fits in my purse. Plus it uses the same charger as my phone.
4|Faster processing speeds than the previous version and several standard features that are better like "Smart Stay", which tracks your eye movement and keeps the screen on as long as you are reading. It will automatically dim the screen when you are not using it and keeps you from having to constantly "wake up" the device. The battery seems to last longer than the older one as well. Overall, it kept all of the features of the Galaxy Tab 3 version I liked and added new features I enjoy as well.
3|I bought this for my 5 year old nephew. As I'm setting it up I noticed that I started freezing. I returned it and purchased another tablet
5|this tablet is awesome went in looking at another product salesperson got with my wife listened patiently [wife has had stroke] listened to what she wanted showed us what we were looking at then showed us the Galaxy Tab 4 and what it could do thank you s much does not leave wifes hand
5|Have used this device heavily for college to edit papers, with the proper software of course. Even pushed the limits and I use team viewer to play some lower quality games on my desktop.
4|excellent buy in a good price, meets my expectations
5|I gave the tab. as a gift to my wife for her birthday. she love it so much sometimes I don't eat dinner.
5|I like having this cause it holds a lot of pics and video. So easy to store
4|great for reading wish that it kept a charge longer
5|this is a small inexpensive tablet that nevertheless has a lot of power and has been easy to use and is useful for surfing. i also use it as my kindle device.
5|Tablet has great camera with sharp pictures but could use a flash. Internet access is easy. Plenty of st [rage for my needs. Has access to Google Talk a)owing me to speak to anyone. In summary, very powerful little machine.
4|Bought this for my son for him to play around on. I am mostly an apple user so the android OS drives me nuts, but my son likes it and the mini sd card is a nice feature for extra storage!
5|Absolutey Love its Will refer to a friend...:) :) :)
2|I purchased this tablet as a replacement for my Nexus 7 (2013). This tablet is a definite step down in both build quality and function. The screen resolution is nice enough, but it lags sometimes when flipping screens or running some graphic-heavy apps. The tablet comes pre-loaded with so much proprietary Samsung software (that can't be removed by the user) that it chews up over half of the tablet's already meager 8 GB storage space. Initially, I wasn't too concerned about it as the tablet supports microSD cards. However, the memory management is so poor, it's impossible to move any app you want (and their associated data) to the card. It seems as if the engineers at Samsung may have designed the removable storage for music or video files, but not as an actual extension of the internal storage space. Overall, it's a serviceable tablet for the money as long as your expectations for user-configurability are kept low.
4|Bought it for my kid. I use the kid mode mainly and it's great. You can set up what apps to use for how long and it won't let him go to any ads even if you tap on them.
5|I bought this tablet for reading my ebooks and it's excellent. Good size and weight
4|This has been a great learning tool for my 6 y/o nephew. He has downloaded lots of educational apps and games and has so much fun playing it!
5|Galaxy Tab 4 7" was a great gift for a beginner user
5|I bought this tablet as a replacement for my 5 year old son's Nabi tablet. I couldn't have made a better choice. He uses this way more than he ever did his Nabi. The kid mode is a great feature. I even use it on occasion. The battery life is fantastic. I do recommend that you purchase an SD card and a case.
4|Camera came with a defective battery. Nikon replac
5|I bought two of these tablets, the Nook version for me and the regular Samsung for my wife. I needed a new e-reader (my previous one was just an e-reader, not a tablet) and I thought a tablet would be much better for traveling. We already have Android phones, so I definitely wanted an Android tablet. These are easy to use, basically bigger versions of our phones. We used them for games, reading, social media, etc.
5|The tablet is nice, really fast loading, easy to setup and setup blocks. We have to set time limits as he loves to play. It's large enough that he can't drop easily. Just need to purchase an Otterbox case to help prevent breakage.
5|Galaxy tablet is just the right size, easy to use and does everything I need it to.
4|My son has used this tablet for a while now and it suits his game playing needs as well as internet use.
4|Samsung 4.0 Tablet is the perfect size and the resolution is great!!
4|I purchased this for my daughter and she is in love with it. Last year I bought the 10 inch but she prefers the smaller size. so far it works great.
5|The tablet was bought for our daughter who is returning to school. she loves it and is getting great use out of it!
5|I bought 3 of these for my young grandsons. Best money I ever invested. The Tablets have kept them busy and gives them a break from summer reading school assignments. Also gives me a break. They are QUIET :)
4|I purchased this tablet for my 60 year old mother. She loves it. Its very light weight and easy to use.
4|It's a great tablet, but it didn't have the screen mirroring option that I wanted.
5|This new MacBook is AMAZING! it's super fast and light, the new keyboard is very responsive and I like the new trackpad
5|I have the galaxy tab s 10.5 and loved it so much I got this one for one of my kids. It is easy to set up and use. Great tablet!
4|I love my Galaxy Tab 4 - 7" I can all my books and comics
4|I love this tablet to watch Netflix and surf the Internet but if you want it to be for business go for a more better tablet but for the price it's a really good tablet and much worth it
5|Good inexpensive tablet. Does everything I need to do and is easy to use .
4|Got this to try to see if I like working on a tablet and it was easy to use and fairly responsive to the touch.
5|I love my tablet, world great, just what I needed for a good price.
4|This machine works flawlessly and my four year old daughter loves it. Great battery life and durability with the otter case. The only downside I have is Netflix cannot be added To the child function regardless of the promises made in the store. However, I would recommend this to anyone.
5|paired with amazon app store you can get daily free apps that for some are great learning tools for kids.
5|It was a nice tablet perfect for my 12 year sister
4|I like this tablet very much, great for everything,i like it
4|Would definitely recommend for someone who doesn't want to spend too much on a tablet it's fast and reliable
4|Fits snuggly in ears. Great sound and nice color..
5|My son is very happy with this tablet. It was very easy to do the initial setup.
5|It's small and lightweight. I'm glad I bought this product.
4|I like my tablet and I can download apps and pictures fast,easy and effortlessly.
5|Very easy to operate and set up. I use it for many of the task I previously completed on my laptop. The Samsung applications are very benificial. Speeds are good and no lagging when switching programs or while multitasking.
5|I got this product for my two boys, replacing a prior tablet. This is a very affordable price and they and they enjoy the tablet as much as I do. I love that you can add more space with an SD card. I would recommend this product.
5|It takes care of all my needs especially when traveling
4|was there 2 hours but the saleperson was very helpful. He took his time and explain everything to me about the computer that will be purchase for work and job. Show and print the information that I needed.
5|Absolutely love this tablet. It's so easy to use. My son never puts it down.
4|Bought it for a friend as Gift. Worth for Tablet Price
5|The Samsung Tab 4 is an excellent product for reading books, getting email and access to various applications. This will be particularly useful when my wife and I go on road trips to local places of interest and want to remotely access our email, use the maps application or read books.
4|A good tablet to start with. Similar to any android phone. Easy to work with. Plus side is you can add more memory and the camera quality is better than other tabs. Could be used as a phone if wifi is available.
4|I love my new tablet so much that I bought my three children the exact same one for their educational apps.
5|clear screen, hand size, good battery life. I enjoy my tablet
5|The table was so easy to set-up and very user friendly along with google operated. Even though it is only 8gb I took advantage of purchasing a 32gb card that too was a Samsung mini sd card also on-sale at the moment. This tablet is very fast and the screen resolution is outstanding. I know own all android devices and can honestly state that I like android better then Apple. This tablet is solid and very easy to operate.
5|I like the size and the two cameras. Since I have a Samsung phone, there was very little learning I needed to do. The screen is clear and the photos are sharp. Great buy for me.
4|Very good product i bought 2 of this. Great resolutions
5|Good and easy to use tablet for both kids and adults. Love my tablet
4|Instead of carrying a computer all day this would be more helpful.
3|Nice designado, needs to improve the sound te speaker is not loud.
5|I am very pleased with my tablet. Love it, love it, love it!!!
4|Not the highest resolution or screaming performance beast you might get with a latter-gen iPad Mini, but it's quite solid. We got this to replace our second Nexus 7, both of which had failing power charge ports. My experience with the Note 8.0 and 10.1 were very positive, build quality wise (if not initial impression of glossy plastic materials). Just goes to show the tablet that feels more quality isn't necessarily the more durable one. The price of this as about half the $199 tag for new/retail. I'd recommend finding that kind of deal to make it really worthwhile. MicroSD expansion and bright, colorful (if only 720p) display top off this great bargain tablet.
4|Working good for the husband. Just the right size for work.
4|I do wish I had bought the larger size. There is a lot of internal bloat apps that can't be removed. It limits the space severely.
5|Product works great (like MOST Samsung products). Purchased as an open box item and saw no visible problems, scratches, etc.. Straight out the box it worked exactly as it should. I'm very pleased with this tablet.
4|This is my first tablet or gadget of this nature so I am still learning . Finding my way around pretty easy and loving it.
5|I love my tablet and is very helpful and easy to use.
5|This is my second Samsung tablet and this one is even better than my old one. My new Galaxy Tab 4 has better resolution, more speed, and is smaller than my old one even though screen size is the same at 7 inches. Great quality and value!
5|The tablet is a convenient pocked size and user friendly.
5|It felt heavy at first and bulky compared to my old smart phone. But once I got used to it, it is great! It still fits in my purse and doesn't feel as heavy now. The images are sharp and clear. My only disappointment is taking pictures. Because of the size and weight, I have trouble holding it stay enough for a photo. I hope I'll adjust over time.
5|this product has exceeded my expectations by farrr
4|Good tablet to have around it's small size makes it easy to take with you and use
4|We bought this tablet for our kids to use and it has served that purpose very well. The one issue is that my sons lego game would not work on it but other than that, it serves us well.
5|The Tab 4 was a cost benefit purchase for me. Actually uniquely using it for a digital dashboard over a blue tooth connection from my aftermarket ECU, Big stuff3 with EFI Analytics. Works perfectly. Amazing how many things these will do, receive Email and monitor Boost control at the same time!
5|Great tab my son loves it. Easy to navigate from app to app . This is my first experience with the android system so far so good .
4|Having a tablet makes it more interesting to stream video content.
5|Good WiFi range and quick dowbloads definitely a good value.
5|Satisfied customer . Associate at store was very helpful.
5|I was used to using a 10" tablet and was worried about getting a smaller one. However, I am happy about this purchase.
4|Nice size. Runs smoothly. No issues with connectivity. My only beef is that they changed the menu button to the task manager button. This limits the amount of things you can do in apps. For instance when running the Facebook app you cannot share anything externally because you need the menu button for that. I use that function to send funny things to people via email or other apps. Another example with the Facebook app is that you can't save anything to your tablet from he Facebook app either because of the lack of a menu button. I wish there was a way to switch the buttons functionality via the tablets settings or something.
5|the only thing i wish it had a better camera but i can do the things i need to on the run with this tablet.
4|Very easy to use and easy to navigate through. The size was perfect and I could practically take it anywhere and have the device connect to the free internet wireless connections all over the place with general ease.
5|Bought this tablet for my husband and he loves it! Picture quality is awesome.
5|Very happy with my Samsung tablet. Easy setup running straight out of the box. Battery life is good sand recharge is quick. Good apps .
4|Bought this for my daughter to play around with so she leaves our phones alone. She loves playing a lot of the kid games at night before bed. So far about 10 of the games we used to have on our phones don't work on this tablet, but that is what you get with the android market sometimes.
5|Like its size and capacity. I do recommend it 100%
5|i bought this tablet two weeks ago. so far it has worked well, has an excellent and intuitive interface and has expanded my internet access and proved to be an excellent kindle device.
4|Nice product . I'm new to tablets and this is easy to work. Originally wanted a 10inch, but there was customer service issues,so I just took this one.
4|Was going on a long trip did not want to take my IPad. Picked this up as an open box item used it to watch movies and surf. This served the purpose very well
5|Best tablet out there. Its fast and the picture quality is great. The camera isnt the best but cant complain for it being a tablet. My daughter loves it. She knows how to work it. She takes her own pictures and downloads her own games. Shes 3.
5|This is my first tablet. I'd like to thank BB for the 14 day return guarantee. That's why I took a chance on this. Was looking at iPad's. Love them. The price hurts. I didn't know much at all about tablets. Didn't know much about Android. I run a Mac at home. Hate ms stuff. Yes this will hesitate and even stop for a little bit. Heck, my friends iPad does that too. This isn't the best. Nor anywhere close to the worst tablet/pad. The price is sure right. Was trying this first day. Wasn't impressed much. Then I downloaded a photo editing software for free. Used it to mark up an email attachment to go send back to the office. She uses jpg because she's pc and I'm mac. This software came up with the label at the top: "Preview". I thought; Gee, that looks just like my Mac OSX? I can expand my fingers for close up just like my magic pad? Kept seeing where it wanted to link to my Mac. Same network. Wants to share. I keep looking and it keeps wanting to cooperate, share, and work with my Mac. Started looking further into this. Android. Didn't know it's a Linux based software. iOS is Linux based. LIke that. Hate ms. The more I discover about this. The more I like it. I'm impressed. It's just big enough. Not too big. Price is right. This thing is great. Bought it for what I need. It does much more. If you buy one. Definitely get a 32 or 64 gig SD card right away. Also a good stylus.
5|I bought this Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 for my Mom as a Birthday Gift, and she love it...:)
5|I thought I would not like it .i do very much . I would tell all my friends
4|To be honest, I only purchased the Tab 4 because I was sick and tired of watching movies/shows/etc. on my Note 4 and having it drain my battery. I just needed an Android based tablet and I trusted the Samsung brand. In the beginning, the screen quality pales in comparison to the Note 4 (and my iOS devices) but after a while you do get used to it. Plus, it's still better than a lot of other Android based tablets. Other than that, my only other issue would be the battery life. It dies after a couple of hours but It may be due to my settings with brightness/bluetooth/push notifications, etc. But overall, I love my Tablet, great quality for the price ($150 on sale).... just travel with the power cable.
1|I hate this thing. I bought it to create music playlists for my upcoming birthday party, and have used it only for that purpose, thus far. First, it is too complicated to learn how to use. A lot of the actions don't make logical sense. It's too easy to accidentally touch the wrong area of the screen and lose everything you've worked on for hours or get taken out of the app you're in to something else entirely. To top it off, it malfunctioned within 37 days of purchasing it, and I lost all of the music playlists I had spent hours creating.
5|I got this tablet for my son and its great, as user friendly as the others so it was a great transition from his previous tab 3.
5|this tablet is awesome and has a lot of features...
4|Tablet performs as expected. I purchased this tablet for my children. They are able to download games/apps, take photos and videos, watch movies and play games with no issues. Slight lag on the tablet when attempting to perform multiple tasks which is to be expected from this type of processor. Overall, great basic tablet for reading, playing games, watching movies. If you're looking for a stronger processor speed and more bells and whistles, check out the Tab Pro 10.1'' or Tab A, or Tab S series.
5|We bought this tablet for our 6 year old and it is very user friendly. He uses it everyday to play games and watches movies.
4|The Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 has great design and even better OS, I'll highly recommended this to all my family and friends.
5|Itis everything i thought it would be. I was satisfied with the price, i see it as a great purchase for me and i truly recommend it. Thank you Samsung.
5|It works great.we enjoy it. I will recommend it to a friend
5|I've enjoyed my Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 - 7" since purchasing it a month ago. Both the picture and sound quality are great and I like the fact that I can transport it easily due to its size and weight.
5|Love everything about the tablet, especially the size!
5|I find this Samsung tablet amazing with good size high speed good picture. I can enjoy washing movies and read books, look for articles in google use YouTube and download application . Thanks Samsung
1|I returned it due to twice it locked me out, can't play games like bingo on it, the clerk argued with me but finally got credit, but would not give me credit on other things it came with which she kept.
4|easy to operate nice for the person on a limited budget
5|This tablet replaces a broken nexus 7 (2012). My son loves this tablet. The only thing he does not like about it is the limited 8GB hard drive (storage). We have not purchased an extra memory yet so we do not know if the apps can run from it. But we love it.
4|The Samsung Galaxy 4 Tablet is a good buy. I downsized from my Asus Tablet and I find I use this Samsung much more frequently. It was a good buy for the money.
5|Nice tablet for gift or self comes in black or white
5|I primarily use it for reading - it has a good size screen
5|A great tablet to go on netflix, read a few books, and just play some games
4|I like my tablet so far. I have used it mostly for games at this point, but I will be starting school again soon, and I plan on using it for that. I haven't had any issues with it, except that it does not have a lot of storage space. Fortunately the storage space is expandable.
5|I love my new tablet, it's easy to use, easy to carry anywhere in your purse or backpack
5|Just to not be bored or for financial info.... the best
5|Works great,fast, easy to use. No problems at all.
5|Had a cheaper tablet it worked OK but I was told to get this a Samsug. I did and wow is I should have done this sooner it great fast and has everything I need.
5|Tablet works great we use it to take pictures and upload them to customers, no issues so far.
5|Given as gifts to my children and as rewards at work! Great for anyone!
5|If you don't need or desire a large screen then I definitely recommend this product.
4|My daughter is using this tablet, and she is familiar with the Google store and interface. I do wish that there was more memory, and have since bought a micro SD card.
5|This product was purchase as a gift for my aunt. she loves it
4|I got it to put books on. I will also use it for music.
4|The first one we got had an issue charging like the first or second day. Took it back and they replaced it and no problems since. Docked one star for the first device not charging right. Device and the customer service was great
4|Overall great product. Happy with the purchase. It was a gift, recipient likes it very much!
4|Battery life is not what you expect. Can't go for more than half a day with modest use (mostly email)
5|I purchased tablets for end of the year rewards. The students were thrilled. This product will help them a lot with there studies.
5|Great tablet for beginners and experts alike! I recently bought this tablet for my grandma and grandpa to hold all there music on. They are not technologically savvy like myself yet have already mastered this thing after two weeks.
5|My grandkids love their tablets...................
5|This is my first tab I love it real easy to use. Would recommend to anyone .
5|I bought 4 pcs. for my 3 nephews &amp;amp; my mom. All of them loves it.
4|Best thing I ever got somebody as a present... love Samsung products
5|I'm really enjoying my Samsung Galaxy. I find it very easy to use and it is the perfect size. Looking forward to exploring everything it can do !
5|Galaxy 7 inch tablet is the best that there is out there!
5|The screen is a perfect size for easy reading, and to carry around, very easy to go from page to page or program to program.
5|As I searched for a tablet that would allow me to manage my life without hauling my laptop, I found Samsung Galaxy. This is the perfect tablet for me!
5|Got this for my mom and she loves it. She isn't the greatest when it comes to to tech so the fact that it is so similar to her galaxy phone she got the hang of the tab fast and she loves it.
5|It's a nice little tablet and great for the price paid. Just get a bigger memory upgrade.
5|We bought two of these for the kids ages 10 &amp;amp; 12 they love their tablets. Hours of entertainment for summer road trips ahead. I love that they have the ability to expand the memory. We would definitely buy these again.
5|This tablet was perfect. I bought two of them - one for each of my kids. I bought a study case and it's perfect for them.
4|Have had it for four days so far. Love it. Can be a bit laggy sometimes, but its great. I only wish the speaker was in the front, versus in the back; especially when I have to put a case on it. Wouldn't have to turn the volume up on it nearly as high if it were in the front.
5|For the price its a great tablet and is competing with the Nexus 7 in terms of spec. I recommend if you are familiar with Samsung products.
4|Does everything that you need a tablet to do. I would definitely recommend.
3|It serves its purpose for when I travel . I don't have to carry the laptop .
4|I really love this tablet to watch movies , youtube and apps for my son perfect size
5|Brought for wife and fell in love with device, easy to use, user friendly
5|This replaced a tired tab 2. Thinner and lighter and smaller overall except the screen which is a hair bigger. Fast and reliable like all Samsung products.
5|My daughter loves this tablet. It is her first technology of her own. It is easy to use and a good size for her. I love Samsung because its a brand that lasts .
5|This is my second Samsung tablet loving this version it is so much faster and even easter roo use.
4|For the price this a good buy. It has all the apps I use facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc... Also to my comicbook fans it can get the DC and the Marvel App.
5|I really like the tablet. Its the first tablet i own so still have stuff to learn
4|My first tablet is working out very well it was inexpensive and has many features that I did not expect susch as on screen keyboard and preloaded programs It easisily picked up my browser andE-Mail a good choice
4|It's small-ish without being microscopic, but not bulky. The power plug can be tricky going in, especially if you have a case on it. Make extra sure you have it the right way.
4|Got this tablet to purchase ebooks. The quality is great and the tablet is small enough to take around. Expandable memory is also a plus! Definitely a good low price tablet.
5|Absolutely love this!! Excellent quality for browsing and viewing pics and videos
5|Tablet works well and has plenty of features to keep you busy for hours. Alot better than the offbrands I used to use. Would gladly buy another one.
5|Great sells persons. Everything that I had a question on he was able to answer.
5|Great looking screen, decent performance and priced just right.
4|I bought this as a gift for my son. He loves it; it is relatively easy to operate and has had no issues so far.
4|Bought this to replace an Acer tablet I received as a Christmas gift and have not looked back. It's the perfect size for me and has a great lcd screen to it, albeit limited on resolution. I would've liked to have a higher resolution'ed screen but I didn't want to pay the money for that option. Otherwise this is a great little tablet and I have very much enjoyed using it.
5|Great camera, quick response, graphics are great. Very clean and easy to use with a ton of features.
5|My daughter loves everything about this tablet. Its great
5|Great Tablet, Easy to use for the whole family....
5|This is my first tablet. I'm impressed with it even if it's the first one I have purchased.
5|It's great tablet for kids. I bought one for my cousin who is six years and she is enjoying a lot. Very sharp display and elegant design. I was in dilemma which to choose between iPad mini or this. I'm happy with my selection.
5|Works wonderfully!!!!!!!very pleased with tablet!!
5|This tablet is excellent for somebody like me that is not that tech savvy, but I'm learning all the time on it. At times I do have to check in with my grandchildren because nowadays kids are brought up in computers at school.
5|It seems to work fine. Sometimes a little slow.But I like the size and the resolution is great. Holds a charge well.
5|I love this tablet. Itz not to big. To small. Throw it in ur purse, and go. Convient.
5|Awesome AwesomeAwesomeAwesomeAwesomeAwesomeAwesomeAwesome
5|The Galaxy Tab 4 was the perfect gift for our grandchild. It was set up in child mode and presented as a birthday gift. The 7 year old was able to use the apps immediately and just loves having her own tablet. It was easy to set up and works well.
5|Got 1 for my 7yr, now got another for 4yr. They both love it!
5|great for reading.Fast.Very clear screen.Great for watching movies
5|This is the best android tablet to get at the time. Size is perfect and great for use on travel trips.
1|Bought the Samsung tab for my daughter and have been a long time supporter of Samsung products. She took VERY good care of of the tablet and after 14-15 months it would no longer charge. I brought it to the Samsung desk and they said that even though no apparent abuse it was the charging port and that this model had problems with it becoming damaged from General or even mild use. They said Samsung has since changed its design and that I could call Samsung to see if they would fix this known design problem even though it was just outside of the warranty. After calling Samsung several times and being given incorrect information they finally said that they will not in any circumstance have any ability to ever extend or stand behind their products past the veryimited warranty. The service center that they use said to give them my credit card number to charge $159 (10 more than a new tab costs) if we want them to fix it. I don't mind paying more for a premium product but expect the company to care about providing a premium product, apparently as a company Samsung no longer cares about being a premium product. As such, I will never purchase anything from Samsung ever again and would recommend you consider other options
4|Great deal for the price... Love this and I personally like better than out iPad.
5|We bought this for our 8 year old. Perfect size for his hands. Excellent quality so far.
4|I bought this tablet for my 6 year old daughter and im very please with my purchase
5|Great tablet. Does everything I need. Easy to use and understand.
5|I love the fact that i was very easy to used and the battery last a long time.
5|Very nice easy and portable device... I recommend it 100%
4|Z ideal size &amp;amp; all functions i need make it great!
5|thus far happy preference is apple but I had no choice due to an app needed
4|this is a great tablet, that you can get with out spending a lot and helps you be connected to the things you need in your daily tasks
5|Love this tablet! I bought it for my daughter and I love the kid mode that is able to be set on it. There are times that I even use it. The speed process is great as well as the clarity of the screen!
2|very disappointed in this product. NOT USER FRIENDLY. all I wanted was a simply device for detailed calendar and Contacts and Notes. But they give you everything else and SLOWNESS to boot. I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PRODUCT. be sure to buy the protection when the charge port go bad! ANDROID STINKS!
5|I love my Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 - 7" - 8GB - Black. It's easy to navigate through the different icons and to read a novel on.
5|I would recommend this product to everybody. And the delivery time was perfect. Way to go ....
5|I love my note for tablet that does everything I needed to do. it still has things that it does but I need to learn which is great.
5|Easy to use and I like the camera. Perfect to take on vacation with me.
5|Super fast very effective. just don't drop the phone
4|I've had no real problems with the device. The screen is sharp and crisp. The size is reasonable in my hand. The battery life and WiFi reception have been about what I expected. If you're looking for a small tablet on Android, I can recommend.
4|He likes it and uses it to play games primarily. He has never had any problems with it. It maintains a charge for a very long time. Only complaint I have is that it doesn't have enough space for apps. I feel like all tablets should come with plenty of storage space for apps since this is primarily what they are used for.
5|My sons and I enjoy this tablet. Its very useful for kids and adults alike.
4|Bought for our kids to use. Good battery life so far. Kids like it to play on!
5|We own Samsung phones so this was an easy transition. The tablet is user friendly and just love it.
5|Was bought for my grandson he loves the games,an the learning part that with the stylus i bought for him so he can learn his alphabelt small an large caps an numbers,phonics,an more Its a great tablet easy to use,an he just loves it..An i love that it's a samsung
4|I love the Samsung Galaxy tablet. It is a lot faster than I thought it would imparted to other tablets. It's easytomuae and quick to reference things I wish it had internet all of the time because sometimes wifi is not available. But I do Luce hentsblet
5|Love the tablet and the reader apps for everyday use
5|Tablet is great and price is even better. Don't have to pay the outrageous price for an apple iPad and can do more things with it. Screen res is fine, battery life is good. Overall great tablet that has met my needs and more!
5|We bought this tablet for our 7 year old daughter. So far it is the highlight of her day to come home to it. It hasn't given us any problems, but it's brand new so I wouldn't expect it to. It's been good for her.
5|Gift for son.. he loves it ...The tab is wonderful and the perfect size
4|My 4 year old son can use it without problems, so anyone can.
5|Great little tablet packed with lots of new features over the previous model. Bought this for a conference door prize and it generated a huge amount of excitement. Really wish I could have pulled my name.
4|The best tablet for the price I think. I haven't had any issues with it at all. I use it for social media, some games, and lots of music. Bluetooth works great and is never slow. I'm sure it has its flaws but I haven't found any yet.
4|Good entry level android tablet.good expandabiity with a microsd card reader that it builtin on the device
5|Got this for my wife to browse the internet and check email/Pinterest while hanging out. It works perfect for that
4|Item was bought as a gift. She can't put it down!!
4|Its a good tab but it does take really long to charge. It has good resolution but I find at times the resolution isnt so clear. Doesnt have much memory and freezes up on internet games. You need a sd with a lot of space.
4|The tablet is great, doesn't get hot when running videos-- has all the apps available that we wanted and cruises through the internet without lag.
3|Not bad for the price but loses WIFI connection a lot and the control buttons on the sides should be recessed if you are using an app and touch one it shuts off. The picture quality is as good as an IPAD.
5|Great tablet. Fast and portable with great screen resolution. Highly recommend.
4|Great tablet at a great price. I bought this as a gift for a friend and may switch from Apple to the Tab 4
5|My daughter loves her tablet. She's on it everyday
5|Work great for many things the kids want to do for learning different things and many games.
5|Great tablet for taking things on the go. So much better than lugging a laptop around.
5|Absolutely love this tab! This tablet does it all with a price tag that won't break the bank!
3|You get what you paid for so to speak. No auto sleep feature. No moving apps to SD card. Nice screen. Pretty good processing speed.
5|I own a iPad 2 but love the features and quality of Galaxy Tab. Runs great plays almost any type video out of the box.
5|Excellent Tablet! I bought this for my wife to play her games on, surf the web, Facebook and email. She loves it and it is her favorite mobile device. Yes guys, even over her iPad air. Do yourself a favor purchase this device for your spouse and knock it out of the park when she starts telling you how much she loves it and how great you did.
5|I purchased this tablet for my daughter at Christmas and she loved it so when I was looking for a tablet for my mother I decided to purchase the same one for her. She never had any experience using a computer or tablet, but with a little help she was able to navigate around the different screens and apps pretty good. The tablet is lightwieght and is a great price.
5|My son absolutely loves it. Best money I spent in awhile.
5|Good tablet, I've had it for about a month now. Overall I recommend it to anyone.
4|Easy to use and lots of features. Would recommend for adults and kids.
5|It is very easy to use for a beginner. I would recommend this tablet.
4|The Samsung mini tablet is so handy, it fits in my pocket and serves the purpose for which it was purchased.
4|Easy to use, can edit pictures, I wish it has more pixels for clearer &amp;amp; sharper photos.
5|Great tablet, love them just wish they had more memory on them
5|I purchased this table to use when travelling. It is great and made my load so much lighter than if I was carrying my laptop
4|It is perfect for me. Not very big, easy to travel with, does what I need it for.
5|Very nice and good tablet but the price $149 is ok but $179 is too much
5|Great optics. Picture was very clear. Moved through the pages quickly. Easy to set up and use.
5|My daughter loves her new tablet. Its meets all her needs perfectly.
4|This was purchased for a graduation gift for my neice
5|Great for the person who doesn't need all the bells and whistles.
5|I got this tablet to use with my business for taking square payments. It has been wonderful! I no longer use my phone and can take phone calls while taking payments. Great investment! Great Price!!
5|First, I am giving this product a five start review because it really is exactly like my galaxy and does everything I need it to, except for one thing, allow an external hard drive to be connected to it. The salesperson told me that I would be able to do that however after going to another store, I was told that the model above mine did that. I would have purchased the bigger size to ensure it could be connected to an external hardrive.
5|Love how it fits in your hands. Size is not too big or small. Bought it for my son and he loves it.
5|Love It!!!use it for games and to check emails. Very cool tool.
5|I have used this tablet in many ways and it performs at its best every time. I previously had an ASUS which I thought was very good but the Galaxy seems much better.
3|I have yet to figure this tablet out...I am not an intuitive electronics user. Need to go back to Lucas for remedial training.
5|I purchased this smaller Samsung because I was tired of carrying around the bigger one. The battery life on this one is great. I can go days without recharging it whereas I was having to charge the Tab 3 once, sometimes twice daily.
4|This is my 1st tablet. I specifically told them I wanted to be able to view and edit my Office documents on this. I was assured I could. Well, I have tried to use the Hancom Office App with little success. I even contacted them and got a reply in either Japanese or Korean, not sure which. Finally I found I could download an Office app, which the salesgirl did not tell me. This makes the tablet much more useful for someone who wants to actually work, not just play games or watch stuff.
3|Nice tablet but it is too small and 8 gig is not enough now days Go on the bigger ones and at least 32 gig of ram
2|its not worth to buy this not that much feature and good screen size.
5|Bought this for my sister in law and it does everything she needs she absolutely loves it
4|Good entertainment for kids and when camping to watch movies
5|It is very durable, has lots of storage and the ability to add micro SD cards
5|I bought this tablet for my 4 year old. It was a great gift to keep the children busy. There are also parental controls as well.
5|Bought this for my Mom for her birthday (the second Samsung Tablet in our family), and i am yet to meet a Samsung Electronic Device that i do not like. My mom is anything but tech savvy(she still has a flip phone), and she took to the tablet with ease, we even have her using Skype with it. It is everything it advertises and more, highly recommend.
5|This was a replacement tab for my daughters overused and overburdened tab 2 (which is being handed down to her cousins overseas). It's got better definition and more features than her old tab...She uses it every single day.
5|I will definitely get a lot of use of my Galaxy Tablet. It is really very simple to use, nice quality and for the price you can't go wrong. I am enjoying my new purchase.
4|This is a good tablet to browse the internet and watch movies/videos.
5|The Galaxy Tab gets better with each generation! Thin and light with all the power, yet small and light.
5|Someone stole my granddaughters cheapie tablet so I took her shopping and this was the best price/performance deal (on sale at the time) at the time. She oves it and really like that it has a selfie cam as well. Her old one didn't. So now I get to chat with her daily and see her too!! TY BB and Samsung. :-)
5|I had purchased this tablet for my son as a replacement for his older Samsung Tab2 7" after it had been dropped and the screen cracked. It's fast, runs well, plays the games he has purchased easily. This tablet was bought for his 18th birthday as the replacement for his old one. Being a senior in high school he has used it for reading and information gathering as well as for entertainment. He had the choice of getting a larger model but had chosen this 7" version since he had greatly enjoyed the smaller size and it's ability to be carried almost anywhere easily. The usage of this tablet runs from Netflix to Youtube to reading books he has downloaded from the playstore as well as playing games and even using some 3d modelling apps. This tablet may not have the highest resolution and it may not be the quickest on the market but for those that want extreme high definition and a powerhouse tablet will need to spend the money and pay more. For a tablet that was purchased under $200.00 it exceeds expectations. This is a tablet for those that want a nice little media device for watching and streaming movies, for listening to music, and doing some reading, as well as some decent game playing. If your looking for something that will be a replacement for a computer or to be run in a home office this may not be the tablet you're looking for, although it can do some decent light work in those areas. As a tablet that was meant for fun and easy/light work this tablet is great.
5|The title of this review says it all I love this tablet
4|Wonderful tablet for me I have galaxy 4 phone so no learning curve
5|This small tablet is just what I was looking for. It's small, so very portable, and has everything I need to stay connected.
5|The tablet has great features and is easy to operate.
4|This tablet was purchased to use with a paypal credit machine. Works fine.
4|I bought this tablet for my daughter and it works great. She uses to see videos on youtube and netflix. Overall, the tablet speed is good.
5|This deal was the deal of the century...this tablet was an off the rack pricing .....couldn't pass it up
5|I use my Tablet to order parts while still in home
5|My kids love it. Samsung is a great brand and last a long time
4|Needed something small, light, and easy to travel with. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 - 7" fit the bill. 8GB was definitely enough for the limited amount of apps I needed to download, though I did wish I went up a few GB.
5|Purchased for spouse. She loves to play games and it is working very well. We signed up for a class on the tablet so we can use it with ease.
5|Got this for school. First tablet I have ever owned and I really like it. Only somewhat disappointing thing was after putting one app on I had to buy a memory card for it but another 16GB is only around 10dollors
4|The size and weight of the Tab 4 is great. The apps are easy to download and the options of using google chrome is GREAT!
4|Its a great tablet, but the battery life and some applications need more updates because it is very buggy. as far as battery goes dies pretty fast
5|Great Tablet, works well if you want something easy to use, with a lot of functionality. Not to large, still fits in my pants pocket lol.
5|Like the look. the apps and great photos . Fast easy to use.
5|great device, nice size, great display, easy to use
4|I like it because it wasn't that much and I can get away with using only one hand most of the time. I just wish there was more memory, the device memory is too low and it dampens some of the things you can do. I say, if you want the cheaper price and don't care about the memory then go grab this, but if you want more internal memory grab the 8 inch model. The only saving grace is that you can put a micro SD card into it which makes it better
5|I purchased this tablet for daughter to replace her old device that quit working. She used the device at school and to play games. Great picture and sound and a nice look all around. Another selling factor was that it was on sale.
5|I was looking for the best compact tablet for a low price and ended up making a great choice. Added a 32gb micro SD card for maximum storage. The display is excellent and everything works well so far. It connects very quickly with the wireless and battery life is very good. Use it mostly for emails and social media and very satisfied. The camera is good for snapshots I guess, but I use a camera for photos. The tablet is a really good value even at the regular price (was $50 off the day I purchased)
5|I've owned Blackberry products I really love Galaxy Tab
5|Its have the features that makes it more easy for me
5|Its great does shalt its told and keeps a charge unlike other devices .
5|Love the store 1385. Don't know what else to say. Sorry.
5|Best purchase ever. Kids love using their tabs at their own time
4|I really like this tablet, but after having an iPhone and iPad for the past few years, it's just difficult to navigate. The picture and size of it are beautiful and perfect! I find it kind of slow at times, but for the main purpose of replacing my NOOk for ereading...it's great!
4|While its not an iPad, this tablet is great for gifts and for just playing around on. Great product for the price.
5|We came into the store to buy another Kindle but after talking to the sales person we chose this tablet and are very happy with our decision.
5|I bought this one for my wife who wanted it for games and faceboook. She has not set this down since I picked it up. I have even used it for watching movies and the definition is phenomenal. Great choice and the reviews made the difference for me as well.
5|I bought this tablet for my dad's birthday and he is so happy with that he can carry all day and any were with him...
4|My daughter loves it. Now I can use my I pad in peace.
5|I am on my Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 daily and it works really well. The picture quality and sound is excellent. I was worried that the 7" screen would be too small, but it is perfect for my needs and very portable. I love it!
4|It is very easy to carry around and wonderful apps to put on the tablet that keeps my kids occupied.
4|I bought this for family use, and like all Samsung devices, the quality is amazing. The space is something to be desired, even with an sd card, but still worth the price. Only reason I don't give 5 stars is because of that, and because done apps that work on another tablet I have won't work on this one. I recommend spending the little bit more for the quality alone, it's worth it.
5|I purchased two Samsung tablet for my kids and I must say its every thing tgey can ever ask for the quality and apps is so user friendly I love samsung product im a big fan of this company brand
5|Bought it for my sister. She wanted something bigger than her phone, but not as big as the iPad. She wanted it to sink with her phone. This did all that. We are very happy with it.
4|The tablet is fast and works great. My 76 yr old father has been using it in a nursing home and it is perfect.
4|My grandkids love Ito love mine I like watching movies on it
4|Screens not full HD but gets the job done Small tablet and gets the job done
5|Great tablet if you're looking for something small and useful for games and apps.
4|I was looking for something to take the place of my old netbook and this little tablet does exactly what I need it to do. It's small and light so portability isn't an issue. All the apps work great and I have yet to have a single issue with connectivity, activity, or storage even without upgrading memory. My only nitpick is that typing takes some getting used to, but I'm moving from a keyboard to a flat surface, so that's more of a personal issue. If you're looking to save some cash and only plan on using your tablet for internet or other light usage pick this one up.
4|This is a fantastic android tablet for the price. Wonderful for the kids because of its size. Easy to hold and read on.
3|Holding the tablet buttons. Get on way ANC will go Bach to screen
4|7 Inch vs. 8 Inch: * Larger screen size for reading * More basic internal memory at 16 GIG versus 8 GIG for the 7 inch unit * The ability to upgrade to a 64 GIG SD card instead of just 32 GIG Tab 3 vs. Tab 4: *The speakers and cameras were downgraded *The data/power cable was shortened. *The cable that was used to output an HDMI signal from the GT 3 8.0 no longer works with the 4.
5|We like Samsung products, Galaxy tablet is excellent
5|Bought for my son! He loves it. So easy to use and perfect size. Can get alot of apps either free or not.
5|I like this tablet it is easy to use and the battery lasts along time
4|Basic Tablet is great for Web access. Nice color for video streaming.
4|Long battery life, good screen contrast and size. Nice starter tablet.
5|I bought this tablet on sale, right after Christmas for $150. Best $150 I've spent in a long time. Does everything I need it to do. With one exception, and this issue is not a hardware issue, but an issue with Android's recent changes. Access rights are pretty restricted as far as what you can utilize the External SD card for (at least running stock, unrooted). So finding apps that will fully utilize the external SD Card as previous versions of Android allow can be tricky. Some of this is supposed to be resolved in Lollipop. But time will tell. Hardware-wise, this is a solid product. As is most Samsung devices.
3|Good device, bad pictures. I try to take pictures indoors and it come up blurry
5|The 46" size is perfect and the smart features too!
3|I liked it nice little tablet. My hands/fingers just too big to really enjoy it.
4|Love it other than it shuts off on its own and comes back on.
5|I really like that this tablet is small enough to carry with me in my purse but big enough to watch video and movies on.
4|Bought this tablet as a gift and it doesn't disappoint.
5|I am a big Samsung fan; they are reliable ( our 2nd tablet), hold charge well, nice screen and do what they are supposed to do. Turning it on without having to worry if it will work makes life a little bit easier
4|I always carry my tablet whereever I work. it's very handy, not bulky and has all the fitures I need. The camera is great too. I will definitely buy same item to give as gift for my sister's birthday.
5|This is a very nice small tablet with features I like. I needed a device with PayPal Here compatibility and I wanted a GPS in it for navigation. It has a slot for a micro SD card, front and rear cameras with acceptable resolution.
5|Yeh gift for mother in law yeh lots of fun looking for gift for her :/ ! But actually ended up being a great buy , she is disabled and I had bought 2 others for her that quickly fell apart ....she lives in Peru and was visiting us for three months she used all day everyday while here and still is in South America! Great price for a highly used tab!
4|Very easy to use and set up. Perfect for road trips and traveling.
4|It a great little tablet . It's go enough and inexpensive to let a kid play with it. Also great to conduct business on the go.
5|The service was great and the sales associate knew what to recommend for what I wanted
4|The Samsung galaxy Tab is must companion on journey
4|Well, the tablet itself is very nice, however I wish I had bought more memory because its has filled up with the limited amount of apps that I am trying to use routinely.
5|Pleased with product and store service. Memory card is a plus to add storage
2|The program I brought this for isn't performing like it does on my iPad mini
5|my girlfriend was jealous of my Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 (also 7") and really needed a tablet of her own... i got BIG kudos for buying her this tablet, she is so happy with it.
5|I am very much satisfied with the galaxy tab 4 coz its very handy and has a good quality. I would recommend it to my friends.
5|Perfect tablet for sitting around the house checking email and watching videos. Haven't had any issues with this tablet.
5|I purchased the item for my son and he loves it. Its easy to use and he can play many of the games he likes.
4|This was my gift for my 8 year old son, who is enjoying it to the max. Its small but perfect for kids of his age, for games or just enjoying music or Youtube.
5|Bought this Tablet to help my son with his Homework and for some fun. I have bought him before a cheaper version, Coby, inspire and they just couldn't keep up with him and the screen would crack. This tablet has been put through the ringer and still come back on. I currently have 3 of these tablets in my home and all of them have been working perfectly.
5|Nice 7" tablet. No problems setting it up or using it. The size is good for daily use, and the processor works well with no lag. The screen looks good, and can be seen well in daylight. It's a good choice for $150.00.
4|Great Tablet! Easy to use. Only down side I have found is the screen touch response can be tricky sometimes. May have a little to do with my screen protection.
5|took it on a trip to use at the Hotel with their WiFi and it did what I needed it to do.
5|Read all I could about upgrading my phone. Made the decision to tackle the newest member to the Samsung phone family. So glad I did. Love the screen display, the ease of operation the feel of the phone in my hand. I'm looking forward to finding out more about the features of my new phone as I use it.
2|I bought this because I wanted a tablet to take to the coffee shop. I really liked the size of the tablet. That made it easy to carry in my pocket. But that may be the best thing about the tablet. Among some of the issues was it turned out to be fragile. The screen cracked when I dropped it from my couch on carpet 5 days after I bought it. The software leaves a lot to be desired. It is very buggy. The keyboard software makes all kinds of mistakes including correcting words that are not misspelled. The Chrome browser locks up frequently especially when it tries to play a video link. I actually would have returned it if the screen hadn't cracked.
5|I think its a good tablet and am familiar since i have a samsung phone
5|Love the multi-screen option, allows me to switch between videos and documents.
4|Pretty nice cheap tablet to learn android on. Ii would recommend.
5|We got s 7in to go along with our 10in. The 7 is perfect to take with you on small trips...Love It!!
4|Bought this for screen mirroring to my smart tv, worked the 1st time and very happy with the product performance
5|This is a great product. My daughter loves it uses it daily. 5-stars
5|Excellent for pictures, social media, and calendar
5|This is a nice little tablet. I like the portability and the size of it because it's actually just the right size to fit in some of my bigger pockets. It's fast and it's really easy to use. Some of the adware and bloatware added by Samsung is annoying, but that's what you get if you want a good product. It'll play and do everything that you want it to really, but be sure to get some expandable storage because 8gb doesn't take too long to fill up.
5|This is a very small comfortable tablet for me. I drive a lot so didn't want anything too big. With the MicroSD card ability I have all of the space that I need
3|I mainly bought this to download movies or watch Netflix while I travel, so far I am not impressed, it looses it's connection most of the time and the picture quality is not as good as my wife's Ipad. but for the $149 I paid I guess it gets the job done.
5|Got this tablet to replace older Google 7in tablet, much faster then older unit bright screen and ir blaster is kinda fun in areas where that tv is too loud you can turn it down from the tablet. Needs a bit more memory built in but a sd card kinda solved that. I would buy again.
4|Great size for kids easy to use even for my 3 year old and easy for carry. The camera is good to.
4|I purchased this for my 95 year old mother n law. Easy for her to understand, which made it easy for me. Only drawback for her it's very touch sensitive - more so than her old Kindle.
5|I am not technology savy, but I love the ability to use it for writing notes and paperwork with speech to text.
4|I enjoy my tablet one reason is its smaller than my ipad and fits right in my purse
5|I really love the parental controls on this device and the kids section. Makes it very easy for a parent to manage how long and what a child is doing or using on the internet. Im so glad you can add memory to it as easy as just putting in a memory card. I am very happy with this product and its great quality!
4|The tablet is pretty good, very convenient and easy to use. The only problem I have with it and that's why I didn't give it 5 stars is, that using with chromecast, I cast the screen and and the movies don't look sharp. But with my phone (Galaxy S5) the movies looks awesome on my tv with chromecast.
5|I've tried the lower cost tablets and been dissappointed with quality and performance. This premium tablet is totally different. It works beautifully and is a pleasure to use. I recommend a bluetooth keyboard case to make it easier to hold and enter text, but that's a common problem with all touch screen displays.
4|Look nice work good, but only 8 GB. If 16GB or 32GB ,this one is better.
5|Great value for uploading pictures and using email.
5|I like this tablet a lot. This tablet is much faster than my old tablet, (which was not a Samsung). It is a good size to carry in my purse. The camera takes nice pictures, and it has a front facing camera too.
4|We originally purchased the Samsung kids tablet which I loved but it kept shutting off and wouldn't turn on so we returned it and bought this one. I wish it would hold more apps in kids mode but my son seems to enjoy it.
5|Better than I expected....love love love my new Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. Screen is small but perfect!!!
4|I love this tablet, it bets my old one hands down. The only problems I have with it is regular tablet problems. But I also wish that the double window could be used with all apps not just certain ones.
5|Great tablet! Bought it for my mother in law first time she uses one and she learned easily tablet is easy to use and great size to take anywhere
5|After several no name tablets finally tried a Samsung and I couldn't be more impressed. Great speed, resolution excellent, touch screen extremely responsive and the Kit Kat OS is very user friendly . Only complaint is with all the Google apps that constantly seem to need updating. Overall I couldn't be happier with the Galaxy Tab 4.
4|Needs to have a longer lasting battery life other than that item is great
5|lightweight, sleek, easy to use, great battery life
4|I had a work emergency and had to buy this one, so there wasn't much choice in the store 10 minutes before they closed. It's a solid tablet, but it's too small. It tethers nicely to the Google Glass (for a work demo, I am not a Glasshole IRL) and is OK. But, it's not big enough for games or movies.
5|I love Samsung and purchased this for our 7yr old's trip to Hawaii with her grandparents. Was helpful on thenplane keeping her busy with games and movies I downloaded. I want one for myself.
5|so far so good, excellent performance i like it very much
5|Great for newbie or kids. Easy to set up and use. Recommend a case to protect
5|I wanted a tablet that was similar to my phone. I've never had any problems with Samsung products. With this being like my phone, it was easy for me to operate this tablet.
4|I gave this as a gift to my husband earlier this year and he loves it! The screen size is perfect for browsing Facebook! Easy to use, especially if you are used to Android devices. It's bright and fast, has a good camera, and is also good for reading.
5|I'm new to the tablet world. This was a great first time purchase for me.
5|I have spent many hours of learning and fun on my tablet and am looking forward to taking your classes and learning even more - love being able to carry this in my purse to show off the pictures I take on it.
5|I bought this primarily for my three year old son and he loves it. Responsive and good screen quality.
5|Great screen nice size fits in hand well good camera great for Internet use
5|my enitre family uses their tablets everywhere now. as long as we have wifi they are using their tablets and love them
4|Sometimes when i start it up date and time resets and apps womt run until you manually. Reset
3|I initially bought this as a cheap alternative to some high buck remote controls like RTI. Then I thought it would be great for a large screen gps device for my vehicle. Wrong! The best way for it to do gps is with wifi engaged from your hotspot phone. So you need 2 devices to do the same as 1 dedicated gps device like Tom Tom. My Tom Tom sucks sucks.
5|My husband got this for a client and he love's his new tablet
5|I guess I just don't get the droid. Too confusing for me! I feel like I'm on a mini computer and I don't like that. Also, this was a present for my 8 year old. We bought him Lego Fusion and it wasn't compatible! Pretty lame! But it's still a nice device and so far it works good.
4|Love the multi-window deatures for multitasking. The size is the drawback.
5|Perfect for my use for lots of public speaking. Easy to hold in one hand and with screen rotation and auto off both disabled is always ready for me to read.
5|This tablet has a long life battery so recharging is easily handles. The ease of operation makes it very desirable tablet.
5|Love it... just wish it came with more memory. But definite worth the price.
5|I bought this for my son, and my grand daughter got to it first. Can't get it out of her hands. Guess I need another.
5|Does everything I need it to do and is very simple to use. This is my 2nd tab 4 purchase and would recommend this tablet to anyone.
5|NOVICE STILL LEARNING TO USE THE TABLET, ITS GOOD FOR A BEGINNER WITH TABLETS.
5|great tablet. does everything i need and more. great deal.
4|It's a good choice for the OS as usual, touch, picture quality will satisfy its user without any doubt. But if you don't like to use head phone while watching movies in tab, I doubt this may not be the best choice. Speaker output is little low with good clarity.
5|This product was for my 7 year old. It's a great product and highly recommend it.
5|The Samsung Galaxy tablet I bought is great it works fast and has no glitches I would definitely reccomend this to a friend
5|My Husband loves his new tablet--- fast, efficient and has loads of space for apps he wants!! I would highly recommend
5|Great little tablet at a great price. My son really enjoys this Tablet. He uses it every day and particularly loves watching You Tube videos on it and playing Clash of Clans. It is and ideal, reasonably priced tablet for kids and adults who need a tablet for internet use, using apps and watching videos. He no longer borrows my wife's Iphone 6 plus because he has this great little tablet instead. I recommend it highly. Very easy to use, sharp images, and a very good value.
5|Prefect size for kids. Speed is fast and picture quality is good.
4|i really like my samsung tab 4. it is easy to use.
5|I have really enjoyed my samsung tablet. It is easy to use and I've had no problems with it.
4|Good price for a tablet, and works as expected. Could use some extra memory space, but can be expanded with micro flash memory.
5|Love the tablet &amp;amp; great Price! I have a 10" that I love but this size is a nice addition for me. It fits in my purse and its the same quality I expect from Samsung.
5|I bought this to use at work to get on the internet, and it is great! Even my wife enjoys using it at home to play games. Great screen clarity.
4|I love the Samsung Galaxy tab 4. Great quality and a very smooth feel to it. My only issue is that the charger that comes with it, is very flimsy. I had to replace it within a few weeks.
4|You can't go wrong with a Galaxy Tab, especially for the price. Works great! Great company products!
2|Since this is only 8GB, there really isn't much space to do much with this especially for an active 5 year old that likes to take pictures and videos of herself. I purchased a 32GB micro SD card but not all apps will store to the card so the apps she wanted to use I couldn't download because there was not enough space. Also, I assumed this was similar to the iPad for when you purchase movies from Google Play that it would get loaded to the device, but that did not happen. You have to log into Google Play every time to do anything, watch movies or read books. So this is inconvenient since this is a wifi only device so there is no way to watch videos or read books when we're in a place with no internet. Unless there is a way to do this and I just haven't figured it out yet, I will have to get an iPad instead for this is a deal breaker for me. Also, since this doesn't have a very fast processor in it, some apps run slow.
5|Work's great very good item. Has a wide selection of features.
5|Perfect size for my kids. Quality product! Fits in you pocket!
5|My husband bought this tablet for my father-in-law who is not very tech savvy at all. He has had no trouble using it.mreally, really likes it.
5|This is a good product. The only issue i have is the required system programs take up alot of the system space. I have put a card in it and it helped but still sometimes have to get rid of some stuff to get space for other things.
3|Not the most powerful tablet, but it does the job. Wish it didn't need to rely on the internet to be able to access certain programs and files. For the price it does the trick.
5|Love the tablet. I hardly use my cell phone. I can download so many things and my kids love to use it as well. Great product.
5|Works as expected. Good size for children. Great quality.
5|I absolutely love this tablet, i use it for everything.....the only concern i have is i wish it was a 16 Gb extendable memory instead of 8Gb extendable memory other than that......no complaints!!!!
5|Easy to use and quick set up out of the box. Larger in size that the Samsung Galaxy 3.
5|Best purchase I made!! Absolutely love the Samsung tablet.
4|4 out of 5 stars...bought it as an E Reader but use it for a lot more
4|This tablet is great for the money, I have a Sansung galaxy 35 and i am sold on Galaxy.
4|I had previously purchase a tab4 and it was really good so I decided to buy another one for a friend. It really is a nice product.
4|I needed a tablet for work, something that I could use with one hand but bigger than my cell phone. This tablet is exactly what I needed and I am extremely happy so far, I wish the battery lasted longer but it's reasonable for the cost of this tablet.
4|Good tablet for the money, I just wish when not in use the battery would last longer.
5|Easy to use, light weight, quick starting, with a long lasting battery.
3|Tablet was purchased to play GOW. The play is slower than an IPhone but still ok for everyday tasks. It's nice that it fits in one hand and you don't have to hold it with both while playing like the IPad would have been. The price was also half of the price of the IPad.
5|I wish the screen was a little bit bigger, and would fit in my tablet case a little bit better.
5|I purchased this tablet for my daughter's 16th birthday &amp;amp; she loves it!
5|I bought this tablet for my 11yr old,great choice!!!! It was easy to use .
3|The Samsung 7 inch tablet was great for taking on airplanes and watching movies. It can do all your basic tasks, but lacked the ability to connect to a 5 GHz WiFi signal.
5|I was commended to get one ,my husband played with it and loved it too. He now has one too. table is Fast and versatile.
5|Great value, bought it on sale so really good price. Beautiful display
4|So I finally have joined the twenty-first century. I find the Samsung tab 4 an easy to use, very fast acting tab. I do wish I had taken the time to test out the camera. There is no flash and the picture quality is lacking. If you are interested in photography this is by no means the tablet for you. Other than that it performs well.
4|It has a good battery life. I only use it to play games on.
4|It's good for social media and daily stuff! You can do many thing with it
5|Bought to replace my wife's Tab 2. She's not tech friendly, but she loves this one! Compact, inexpensive, quick loading.
4|The tablet is very good. What is even more amazing is the patient customer service provided with every device I have purchased. "Theo" and Liz are outstanding for bearing with the elderly customer!!
5|I got this tablet for my 6 year old son as a reward for a good report card. Let me just say that he hasn't put it dowm since. He video records his train sets and watches trains on youtube. I'm so glad he loves his tablet, and with Samsung products how can you not!?! To better protect his tablet I purchased the Otterbox Case and the combo is unstoppable.
4|I am fan of electronics. I bought this samsung galaxy for my son. He's 11. He knows his way around his electronics. I found that Samsung gives you flexibility and the added sync from tablet to your laptop lets me pick up where i left off. He is able to put pics, music. chat with friends and get his much needed assignments done. This makes a huge difference when i need him to get through his school work. I have been a samsung fan for years. The price is better and the warranty is excellent. I don't have to worry about a cracked screen, or the OS system failing on me. It is a tool and resources that gets used pretty often in my house. I recommend the samsung galaxy tab as it has expandable memory and can also stream media websites like hulu and netflix. If i needed to purchase another tablet it will more than likely be a Samsung.
4|I started with a Tegra Note 7 and it stunk! This is so much better designed but the limit of 8G kinda leaves you well, limited. I have a 164G SD card installed and the apps that I can move I do. Can't wait for the 256G SD cards. This device streams well and battery life is good. The s peach interface leaves much to be desired but then again it's not Siri. I don't feel like I'm walking around with an egg. its rugged enough. camera could be better but I don't hold that against them. I do like that I can direct where images and video are stored. As with most android devices, it can only get better.
4|This tablet is great for anyone like me looking for something durable yet not too fancy. Combined with a Zagg screen protector and a Ulak case from Amazon it is undeniably awesome! Not iPad quality, but definitely Samsung reliable!
5|I like all the stuff that you can do with the tablet
5|I bought this tablet for my son he's 3. Kids mode worka great. But if I want to use it I can. Versus buying a kid only tablet for same price.
5|Easy set up . Bright screen colors long lasting battery
5|Bought this tablet for my 10 year old and he loves it!!
4|I should have done my research, rather than assuming this unit would have a slot for a micro flash card. (It DOES have a sim card slot.) Had I known that, I wouldn't have purchased this item. Other than that, it seems fine, although thus far I am not impressed with the battery life.
5|Ease of use Very good picture quality Clear photos
5|This product is good when you are on the move. If you are a student it is perfect to take to classes.
5|This is a wonderful tablet and a great price and value.
5|Bought this for my 2 yr old and downloaded kids mode. This allows me to control what apps she has access to. As she grows I give her more access.
5|I love my nook, I was also able to download a Kindle app on there and now I have access to countless books. I have a walking library in my hands.
5|Bought the Samsung. Love it. Have an apple and prefer the Samsung. It is light weight. Very quick internet. Value for money can't be beat!!
5|I didn't want to get something bulkyl like an Ipad. I wanted something thst fit right into my purse and wasnt heavy. this device is perfect, clear and easy to navigate. It has all the features that I need and i liked it so much, that i convinced my brother to get one.
5|I have really enjoyed this product and so has my little granddaughter. I read books, play games, and go online alot. Great battery life.
5|Great tablet. I bought one for me and my mom and we both love it.
4|The tablet has great picture quality, is very durable, and I love how it has a leather like backing too it, instead of metal that can easily show scratch marks after some use. My only complaint is that it is slow, compared to my phone, and other tablets I've seen out there. When I say low, I mean slow loading on Chrome or the Internet App, and loading videos via Netflix or YouTube.
5|You can't go wrong with a Samsung. I purchase another brand last year and it didn't last two months. It's powerful, battery time is great, takes great pictures, doesn't get hot over hours of usage.
3|is ok if you dont need to much memory. memory got full pretty quick even with sd card. cannot put apps on card coz then they wont work properly.
3|Not as fast as expected but is still useful. Graphics are great. Battery life is not the greatest.
4|good for all around use, bought to play Hearthstone and Netflix. Netflix works great along with pandora and many other apps; however it's a little buggy with hearthstone and vega apps. over all it's only buggy with high gps games every thing elce is solid and very good. suggest getting a good micro sd card you will use it a lot since the internal storage is not large, only 8gig and will use up your RAM fast! hope this review helps. :-)
4|I like my new tablet. Ithink this the perfect size to carry with you.
5|I love this tablet. It is nice and small. It can easily fit in my back pocket, and very easy to understand and program. Great apps to play on it.
4|Picture and battery life are great for playing their apps. Was hard to find a non-folio case for it though (had to order from Amazon)
3|This is my second Galaxy tab. I had to stop by the kiosk for assistance on how I could save my data to the sd card instead of the tablet, kind of a pain in the rear.
4|I love this tablet! The LED is big enough to see what I need to see with a clear crisp picture and I'm able to get around the web the way I need to without carrying around a clunky laptop!
5|I bought 3 of these and they love it! The micro sd is a plus!
5|This was a gift for the girlfriend and she loves it
5|This was a gift for a family member. Not a computer person so this was a great intro to using the web, email etc.
5|My Godson loves the tab. its perfect for everything 4 yr needs
2|i switched to this table from a nexus 7 i bought a while back, when my five year old broke the speaker i brought it in on warranty to be fixed after awhile i was told i would have to swap it out for something else, this cost more and has only led to disappointment i wish i could have just gotten my old tablet back with the busted speak the tab is slow, can barely even run games like plants vs zombies takes forever to do anything and touch wiz is garbage, its loaded with junk i didn't ask for and slows this already unimpressive device down even further, as a small compliant it lacked the same feel of substance as my nexus which made it seem kind of flimsy, its not its just the way it feels, only thing i can say is the over saturated screen is pretty if not color accurate but overall makes me wish i had never bothered with a warranty then i would still have my good tablet i would not suggest anyone buy this and if someone gives it too you sell it and buy literally anything else.
5|the Samsung tab 4 7. 0 is great for kids, large enough for small hands
5|Really happy how easy the tablet is to use. Just like my phone..
5|I bought tris tablet for my son and was surprised for the quality of the screen,,and how easy to navigate through apps.
4|it is a good tablet. i also have one. i like the tablet but did not like the cashier. did not use my reward coupon. he already cashed me out and forgot to use my coupon and did not know how to go back and do it. he told me to just use it another time. so i thought why give my a rewards coupon then..
4|I am glad we bought it. We buy many like this for our staff. Quality was good and price was good.
4|Great screen and graphics easy to use not to big and bulky user friendly
4|One good feature is the ability to open up documents.
5|Love the Galaxy tab, very fast and versatile, has changed how I do everything
5|Fits the tap 4 like a glove. Enjoy the fact that i can opt to use the case or easily remove it.
4|Great tablet but the os coding is better on the lg g pad
4|I admit I am not an android user , so I am getting used to the interface , but as for the tablet and such , I like it so far
4|I bought it as a gift for my little cousins and they loved it
4|I got this for my girlfriend for valentines day and she absolutely loves it very satisfied with my purchase.
5|We have been using the tablet on a daily basis and love it
5|Great Tablet,That Works Amazingly Good! Great Buy!
4|This tablet won't blow you away but the smaller size and price point made it an attractive offering. Know that it's not top of the line so that's not what you're getting, but for e-reading, internet browsing and light video streaming it is more than capable. I love this tablet.
5|This tablet is easy to use and works well for my son. With the additional kids mode, it is something that can grow with him as he ages.
5|Great tablet for adults or kids. Easy to use. Good wifi.
5|I got two of these for my daughters who are 11 &amp;amp; 8. We got these after the first ones they got for Christmas broke one after a week and the other after a month (a different brand) The Samsung has been terrific my daughters love them and they are well built unlike the first ones.
5|I Love this tablet. Great product and I am thinking of buying another one for my daughter.
3|Perfect size but, not enough memory on the device.
5|I bought the tablet for my 4 year old and she loves it. Her older siblings down loaded a lot of games on it that she loves. Anytime we go somewhere she takes it with her.
5|This is a great tablet for my high school student.
3|This is a great tablet. My husband choose it because it is a drawing gift for a Vegas trip. For clients. It was a great hit! They were excited to sign up for it. Thank you.
5|I love the Sampson Galaxy tablets. So far we have had no issues with it. Daughter is on it all the time.
5|Husband really likes how easy it is to use. This from someone who knows nothing about tablets. Takes great pictures.
4|This is a very good tablet it is very similar to my galaxy S5 only quite a bit larger and more crisp display.
5|The screen is very clear and easy to use. I love using Audible for books.
4|Is very much like the Samsung Galaxy 5 so its operation is very familiar. Has good screen and does what I want it to do.
5|we absolutely love this for our 4 year old. the kids mode is great and it is as fast as the normal tablet mode. great picture quality and cheap too.
5|Priced right light weigh and easy to use a great purchase and everyday part of my life
5|I HAVE 2 TABLETS SAMSUNG GALAXY, AND THIS EXCELENT TABLET
5|I would buy this again. My family uses it all the time.
4|I got this tablet so I could take off some of the wear and tear off my phone when using it with my chromecast. Offers fast casting between devices and even the screen is clear if I want to watch netflix or anything else on it. Downside though is that the google maps crash the tablet all the time which is annoying cause it locks the entire tablet to where I need to restart, everything is updated so its weird. Otherwise works for what I intended to buy it for.
4|Nice small tablet. Bought it for my 14 year old and she loves it. Does everything she needs.
5|GREAT TABLET, THE SIZE IS PERFECT AT LEAST FOR ME. FAST BARELY OVERHEAT, CAMERA IS GREAT. GOOD PERFORMANCE
4|Needs more RAM and less pre-loaded apps. Other than that I'd have nothing but a Samsung Tablet. My kids play them and love them and they are 4, 6, and 12. They have all been playing Samsung tablets for over a year. You can't beat them!
4|The tablet is easy to use and to download your favorite games. The download speeds are OK. I'd much rather have a droid product any day than an apple product.
5|I had this tablet and now bought one for one of my children. Easy to use and meets all his needs after adding an SD card.
5|i recommend getting this as a gift! It's perfect!!
5|Samsung is always a very reliable and dependable product.
4|I bought 3 of these for my.kids, and they love them. They had them so far for 3 months and so far no problems.
5|Love my tablet great screen. Samsung has great devices.
5|I can only find one thing it is missing, and that is a hdmi output. Other than that, I think this is a great tablet and I highly recommend it. It has a beautiful screen and a quad core processor (plenty of power). Easy to transfer pictures and movies into it. I love it. Everything is easy to use and it works perfectly.
4|My grandson loves his new chrome laptop. He's really happy.
5|Bought one for my 7 year old son in february and he loved it. Then 2 weeks later I bought another samsung tablet for my 5 year old.They both love it. Pictures so clear and so easy to use.
5|After looking at several less expensive tablets, the Samsung was head and shoulders above the rest in terms of price to performance. The screen is bright, sharp, and the colors are brilliant. The software is fast and easy to navigate. There are tons of accessories available including rugged cases which were a must in my situation - the selection of cases for the lesser known brands is limited. I do own an iPad Air, iPad Air 2 and an iPad Mini 3, and can say that this tablet compares favorably with anything in the iOS or Android world. It is much less expensive than any of the current Apple tablets and is a great choice for any one looking to surf the web, stream music and movies, etc. I purchased this as a gift for my uncle and it more than meets his needs.
5|Everyone makes a fuss when my grandson touches their technology. It was getting on my nerves that he felt left out. So I got him a tablet that fits his needs and let's him feel included.
5|My daughter can perform all school tasks connect to internet as required as well as play games and download aps.
5|Easy to use, carry and stored. It helps program itself.
5|I would highly recommend the samsung galaxy 4. It is easy to use. I just love it.
4|I bought this tablet to use as a reader since its bigger than a kindle. It works great for that purpose. Fairly easy to navigate coming from Apple. If I were to use it for more I would prefer a bigger screen.
5|easy to use, perfect size for playing games, reading books and watching videos.
5|Very easy for my husband to use for a beginner with electronics
5|I have enjoyed using the tablet and even attended one of the Samsung classes to learn a little more about it. It is easy to move around on and small enough to carry around.
5|Works great with netflix and as a comic reader. I also use to review photography images.
4|It has been easy to use. It does what I need it to do for me.
5|Great tablet! Easy to use! Good speed! A must have!
5|This is a good tablet great for kids easy to use..
5|Very easy to set up &amp;amp; picture quality is excellent! Very fast &amp;amp; easy for my 11 yr old to use!
3|Tablet is ok but the keyboard is too sensitive. Overall is good.
5|Bought 3 tablets for 5 year old triplets. They love them. Easy to use and the right size for them to handle.
5|Really works great. Being an Android system, it works like my phone, so there was a very small learning curve.
4|I like the vibrant colors. Good sound. Plenty of space for apps.
5|I am enjoying my tablet very much. I initially purchased it to watch streamed movies, but I now use it to surf the internet, check e-mail and take photos.
3|Samsung is a nice tablet . Still figuring it out..
5|The Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 at $149 seems to hit the sweet spot of value and performance for our business needs. Just fills the need and a great screen at this price!
4|purchased the tablet for looking up products. Great for someone just learning how to use the internet.
4|I t beats my Nexus 7 lollipop by 4x speed. Plus I love the plug in memory chip expander.
4|mainly use for games for my granddaughters first tablet. so far no complaints
5|I love how easy this was for me to navigate. I was able to download the apps I wanted with no trouble.
4|Love this tablet. Plenty of storage and easy to use for a beginner like me.
5|I bought this for my 7 year old instead of a gaming system. It was a great idea because he can watch netflix, read, and play games. The tablet is easy to use and very sturdy. He has had no problems with it!
4|This product works great! We love the picture and easy use. Makes going from a Samsung galaxy phone to a tablet simple
4|I like the galaxy tab 4 cause its small and lightweight and I can carry it anyway
5|I love this tablet. Good display. Kind of a tinny speaker but that can be cured with headphones. I also love that it is expandable using an SD card. I went with Android because I have an iPod 4th generation and it is stuck at iOS 6 because Apple refuses to upgrade so apps that are for iOS 7 or greater will not work. Also went with Samsung because my sister has had an older model for over a year and she likes it. When I bought it it was 149.99 and a good buy and only $10 more than the Galaxy Tab 3 Lite and not too much more than the cheaper tablets I may not be happy with.
5|Bought two different tablets, one smaller and I really like this one. Partner uses it also and has found it very easy to use.
5|it's very nice and quite convenient to take wherever
4|My son is able to use his new tablet, and easily navigate through the systems. He loves it!
4|Bought this for my parents to get used to technology. It's modern but easy to understand and use.
4|I got the Samsung tablet for a gift. It was a great choice for a good value price!
5|Nice price and good performance,like multi use features
5|This is a great tablet, just the right size, But I am an Apple user and the learning curve for this was just too much for me. I needed a full-time tutor. I had problems with an app getting its data on the SD card. Most of the data stayed in flash and very little on the card. It was the app's problem. I was running out of work space due to this app and that just would not fly. Reluctantly, I returned it.
4|I got this tab because of the price and the fact that it was better than the tablet I already owned. Samsung Galaxys are well known and have a long line of products, so there are less problems. I also have a Droid phone so I know the software on this was solid. Everything on this work very well.does what it says and there is no lag in work. My Internet can not keep up with this thing. Reading books and movies is superior. The memory is fine on here but I have a 16gb card.
4|Good tablet wish I got more gigs.Camera isnt the best though
5|This little tablet is so handy,can take any where.Its perfect for what I need it to do.My mom likes using it too.You can't hardly beat a Samsung product. :-).
5|Love the size and the easy to use functions able to send files via Bluetooth
5|great tablet i will definitely recommend it for anyone
5|great tablet, love the design and material quality
4|Bought this for our son after buying 2 different brands and had lots of problems with other ones. He loves the Samsung. The only problem we have had is we can't figure out how to save some of his stuff to the memory card because his memory is already full. We didn't see anything about it in the manual.
5|Needed a tablet for a Directv app to run my sports bar. Worked perfectly for that. Unit is light weight and very thin.
4|It is an awesome tablet for the price the only downside is no screen mirroring function!
5|easy item to install once on wifi. Fast upload speeds. Easy enough for my 64 year old mother to use
5|The Samsung tablets outperform the apple products with better features at about half the cost. It also has the added benefit of adding a 64Gb memory card and plays videos in their native formate without need to convert.
5|will begin taking classes to learn more. I love it sofar.
5|The new galaxy tab I purchased is awesome... the features, the apps, the quality, everything about this tab i rate a 10 of 10. The price was very cost effective as well...can't beat it!
5|I would totally recommend this to anyone. It makes your life so much easier.
5|Tablet was easy to set up and sync with my phone. i love it
5|I absolutely love this tablet. Its way faster than the galaxy 3.
5|Overall this is a 5 stars purchase, the purpose of this purchase was to ise this tablet as an eReader light gaming and email handling! I have had no issues battery life is decent and it charges fast!
5|I bought theSamsung - Galaxy Tab 4 - 7" - 8GB - Black for my son. I gotta say I'm impressed even though this version doesn't come with flash it's still a pretty good tablet
5|Best thing I have ever purchased. Works fantastic. Charges up very fast and long life battery. I am now a big fan of Samsung. I would definitely recommend this to everyone.
5|great value and a great tablet! I prefer it over the IPad, not only for the price, but for the operating system
5|My recent purchase Samsung I pad. I am really pleased with this device.. It is the first time i had an i pad and i love this one
4|This tablet, so far, has been easy to use and robust. it has adequate storage and is fairly zippy. The screen is about as crisp as you can expect from a non-hd tablet but that doesn't bother him. Overall, a great deal for the price, Even better when you consider i only paid $8 out of pocket (online moneymaking FTW)
4|this is a great pad use it every day also a great price
5|I absolutely love my Samsung tab. I had a Samsung tab in the past and hated it because of how slow it was so I was skeptical at first buying another Samsung. I didn't want to get a IPad because I am a droid user for everything else.They have defiantly improved their tabs! I use it everyday for in-class and at home. Best part is the battery life seems to last for days! I'm going to get another one for my husband because we are suppose to be sharing this tab and I hate sharing it lol.
5|It is not the first time I bought an open ítem. Works great !!!
5|This is the best technology I have ever purchased. The salesman was a big help.
5|I’ve used many tablets and this by far is a excellent choice, perfect size and speed for taking to class or work for on the go. I can access everything and do everything. The accessories choices are endless and reasonable no issue at all I also own a Tab 4 8” and Tab 4 10” and the S5. I love Samsung quality. I recommend Google apps.
5|Didn't really get to use but I'm a Mac person always
4|It's ok for a child her age she's only six we will try somthing more advanced next year
5|I have used this tablet before and love it. I would recommend to a friend. Also, 2,000th review!
4|Works well with most browsers.chrome a bit sluggish
5|With proper supervision and a real good case, of course.
4|I bought this little puppy for my 4 year old. It has all the feature needed for him and I can lock him out when needed. Very light weight...
5|I got a cheap tablet n returned it in 4 days went back to get an amazon fire and was told this is better. And they were right I love this thing and do a lot with it. I would definitely recommend this to a friend or stranger
4|We use the tablet for general internet browsing and netflix. Slightly slower responsiveness than we anticipated especially when switching profiles (this may be more of an Android OS issue).
5|This tablet does everything I expected it to and was under $200. It functions very similar to my S4 phone so I find it very easy to use.
5|i bought my own after using my mom's Tab 2 that still works great.
4|Screen quality is great and the camera is ok for general picture taking. The sound quality is not as good as previous models as there is now only one speaker instead of two and the speaker is located on the back of the devise instead of the bottom. Overall this is one of the best 7" tablets on market. I like the 7" size because it is easily hand held and will fit into a pocket and Samsung seems to be of good quality.
5|The Samsung galaxy tab 4 is truly amazing. I love how sleek it is. It's the perfect size for on the go or cuddle up in bed time. No complaints.
5|I really don't have any complaints, tablet functions well and is very responsive.
5|Good battery, lots of memory once adding 32 gb micro disc.
5|Very versatile tablet at a great price. Was looking at a Kindle or a Nook, but this was a better fit.
5|I bought this tablet for Christmas and got a great deal on it. The display is great, decent speed, and it's easy to use. I love the size because I can carry it in my handbag. Works well for everyday computing and a few games downloaded from the app store. Compared to other tablets I have purchased in the same price range this one is a 9 out of 10.
5|Great tablet. Has a mode for kids that is easy to set up. Also has a normal mode for the adults. Overall great tablet for a family.
5|This has helped me get through client meetings without lugging my laptop. It's quick and simple and has everything I need to show a potential client.
5|got for my 7yr old great for games and homework and fun
3|I bought this tablet because it was cheap and an android device. This is a pretty good tablet, kind of slow for gaming, but it suits my purposes. It streams Netflix and I can develop software for it...
4|Love tablet Fast keeps up with my searches. Better then my old laptop. Don't like when I'm s searching online I don't see the time like I'm used to on my laptop. Highly recommended . Dont like
5|this galaxy 4 is great. I can play games view e-mail facebok etc.
5|I bought this for my bf, I have one myself and would recommend it
5|The Samsung Tab 4 are awesome. Great qualiity, awesome apps
5|Love this tablet and the size is great as well I can carry it everywhere. Doesn't have a lot of spec but its ok I put an extra memory card for it.
5|Wanted the larger one at first..this one fits in my purse perfectly..great purchase..
5|Easy to use. Lots of apps. Kids love it programs are friendly to use, has great wifi connection , great displays
5|I purchased this as a gift for a 11 year old and he loves it!
3|I bought this for my son as a replacement Christmas gift (for a laptop) He was unable to play certain games from the laptop and just HAD TO HAVE THIS GALAXY. He is still getting used to it, so over-all, I cannot speak from a PERSONAL USE, but he seems happy with his choice.
4|Easy to use. Easy access, nothing too fancy. I get what I need out of it. Battery seems to last me awhile.
5|I got this for my 14 year old son. He loves it. Does all that he needs it to do. Easy to navigate, great sound and picture.
4|I bought the first tablet in December for one of my twin grandsons while buying the other twin a DS. We returned the DS and came back for a Galaxy Tab 4! Unfortunately I had to pay $50 more for the one purchased after Christmas and the extra memory card was so expensive I refused to buy it since I paid $15 in December and it was $40 after Christmas
4|Great tablet. Beautiful screen and easy to use. I love Samsung.
4|The Samsung Tab 4 7.0 is pretty good. Camera quality is very low but it has built in GPS, which the iPad Mini Wifi doesn't. This feature is a must as this tablet is used to offline navigation where there is no cell service.
5|My 9 year old caught on how to use this right away
4|the ease of use right out of the box is essential. Plus the fact that it's NOT a cellphone is quite alright, since i do not want to be disturbed during a viewing of "22 jumpstreet". the amount of storage is fine, as long as i do not become too attached to certain downloads, which is good, since i like to have what is current. TRENDING much?...all in all great product, i enjoy it very much
5|Now my child can leave my tablet alone. He loves having his own.
1|This tablet has poor battery life and is not very fast, we just received a free LG 7 inch gpad from our phone company which is usually under $150 and it performs much better than this galaxy tab 4
3|I really wanted to like this tablet. However it's Achilles heal is very poor WiFi reception. I have a very strong WiFi signal in my house. My wife was sitting next to me with her next book 7 and was receiving an excellent signal while I could not connect to the network. I liked the design and the operations of this tablet but if you can't get on the net what good is it.
5|My children love these tablets! I love the kids mode!
4|Really good tablet , I bought it for personal use. Has came in handy as a game plat form for our 3 year old grandson. He uses it for his games and ABC Mouse . My wife and I have recommended to friends with grandkids. Would recommend larger memory and SD card.
5|Easy to use and operate. Serves perfectly for operating my wifi system and playing music and TV channels
5|Having this vs. my laptop for casual web surfing and email while planted in my recliner in front of the tv is great! Screen size is nice and the quality of the images is superb. Boots up quick as well. It can get a little heavy if you hold it a long time, but if you get a case/holder that holds it up for you like I did that's no longer a problem. I do recommend a stylus to avoid the fingerprints and smudges that come with using a touchscreen as well.
4|8G(+32G with memory card) works as a touch screen remote for my TV service, and has the kid software so I can manage their time. Also allows you to have different users, so each user can have different permissions, and if they play the same games they have a different profile so they don't mess with eachothers progress. Works for me, but then again I love Samsung products.
4|Really like this product a lot. I take it to work with me and listen to music and watch videos.
5|I LOVE THIS , IS SO EASY TO CARRY A ND USE WHEREVER I WANT
5|I bought this tablet for my not so tech savy mom for her birthday. She loves, gets the job done and best of all hasn't asked me for help yet (:
4|I have not learned every about tablet but so far I have not experienced any major problems with it
3|it´s so small and the price is not good. The option to translate is very bad!
4|rhis is a small tablet that is handy for the field
4|The screen on this tablet is so bright and clear it makes it fun to watch movies on . We purchased a bigger memory card so we could put more movies on it for when my husband travels. Now I want to purchase the larger screen tablet for myself!
5|Tablet purchased for my son. Just the right size for his age. Easy for him to handle and navigate.
4|Lots of features and nice and compact similar to iPad mini
5|I have bought two tablets one for my son and one for my granddaughter. both tablets are used every day. My son took his to college and is able to do his work.
4|Perfect holiday gift for my niece. Very Convenient
5|I bought this Tablet as a Christmas gift for my Grandson. He will not put it down. Easy to operate and very functional. It is all that we expected from a Samsung product.
5|Samsung is the best for all electronic products example: tablets tv's cpu
5|very vivid and so far fast getting on to the internet
5|The Samsung tablet it is the best tablet I have tried.
5|Im not a very tech savvy guy but this tablet is very easy to use. Love it
4|I bought this tablet as a gift and I've bin told they loved it very satisfied
4|Love it. Had a little trouble navigating bit easy to handle
4|Haven't done a whole lot yet, but easy to view and use.
4|The processor is a bit better but still has all the features I love about it's predecessor.
5|I purchase the tablet for travel and at the gym. The screen quality is great and it is easy to use.
5|Helps when I need to entertain the kids or myself. I just hook up 2 wifi and Netflix and enjoy our favorite movies or shows where ever we go.
5|I bought this for my wife and she loves it great buy
1|Love this tablet. It's very easy to use &amp;amp; already familiar.
5|I bought the Samsung tablet for my husband. He loves it! Great product for the money. He couldn't be more satisfied.
5|I was originally looking for a good tablet since my phone looks small nowadays, but i didnt expected to find such a nice deal for a good tqblet. It fits my lifestyle not being too small nor too big.
5|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 has been awesome! No issues at all. The responsive on the screen is very snappy, and the user interface is very intuitive...almost identical to the Samsung phones that are on the market. Very happy that I chose this tablet over others.
5|Good tablet for the money. Nice size for most people.
5|A gift for my sister in law and she loves it. Uses it everyday.
5|I have been purchasing Samsung products for a while. While some tend to be a bit over priced, you do get the quality you pay for. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 is a great tablet which includes a lot of nice built in features.
5|i like the size of this tablet and it is the right size to carry around
4|I really enjoyed the new camera this year. A little difficult to work, but does shoot great pictures. I love the multi shot function .
5|Got this as a gift for my daughter. She loves it! I went back and bought myself one also
3|downside is that it runs out of memory easy/quick.
3|Im an Apple person but tried this because it's cheap. It's slow and with Android, it requires to access most personal information everytime app is installed or updated. I returned it :-(
5|Perfect size. Enough of the features of the Galaxy S5 but smaller.
5|Purchased as a replacement to my iPad and I couldn't be any happier of my decision
5|It's quick , responsive and has good screen resolution .
5|Picked up this tablet as a backup. Quickly became my first choice. Love the split screen and fast swap features .
5|I bought this item to just get on the web and to skype with, and it works very well. I now use it to do alot more.
4|This tablet is great. Instead of taking my laptop home from work everyday to use the Internet I can use the table instead. No more caring books around to read. Just down load onto the tablet . It takes nice photos and fits right in my bag.
4|Very easy right out of the box seams faster and moves from app to app with ease
4|I take this tablet with me where ever I go. It is good for capturing memories I also use it to do my online study .
5|Very good for kids because of parental control. Very portable
3|This is my first tablet, it did not come with an owners manual and I have had a lot of trouble figuring out how to get the most out of it. Once I learn how to do something it does work well.
5|Bought 7 of these tablets for the guys at work and love the ease of use for them.
5|Nice in between size of my laptop an iPhone 5s enjoy using the nook an kindle apps
5|Plug WD My Passport Ultra in to your PC with the WD smartware screen open and start your back up.
3|The picture quality is not that clear, the speaker is weak and clash of clans loads slow on it.
5|It's a great tablet, the kids love it. The only recommendation I would make to Samsung is to make some improvements on the sound quality.
4|I think the pad is a very good one so you are tops when it comes to these gadgets.
5|I love this tablet, it is the perfect size and it's great for Facebook and the Internet.
4|should have gotten the one with more memory very happy with them
5|I have 2 and i thing they are better than I pads. i would reccommend everyone buy one!!!!!!!!!!!
5|Personally I like this tablet better then my ipad, why, simple, I like music and videos and when I want to add anything all I have to do is connect it to my PC and upload more or less. I can add pictures and videos fast and I can do all this without using a stupid apple program to do this. I also like many of the apps available and how well this tablet runs them and video playback is clear and crisp.
5|Perfect for small portable Android Tablet. Lots of cool features
5|Got it for my Fiance for Christmas and she has been using this tablet everyday since
5|I love my new tablet. It's great for all the work travel. Fast processor, movies look great. Easy to use, and light to carry.
5|I take it with me to work everyday and when I go to see friends and family
5|The kids love their Christmas present...easy to use, expandable memory, replaceable battery, great tablet!
5|Easy to use. Simple. Really good features. Great ipad competitor
5|it was a good invest meant. i will recommend this to someone.
5|For the price, this tablet is the best 7-inch tablet around...Apple or Android.
4|I LIKE THE PRODUCT EVEN THOUGH I AM STILL LEARNING TO USE IT. I HAVE TROUBLE TYPING AS I ALWAYS HIT THE WRONG KEYS. ONE DAY I WROTE "GLAUCOMA" AND IT CAME OUT "BLACKMAIL"!! HOW COULD THAT HAPPEN? I DIDN'T KNOW HOW TO CORRECT IT AS I HAD WRITTEN OTHER WORDS AFTERWARDS. SO BE IT. THE DESK WORKERS AT SAMSUNG ARE VERY HELPFUL AND THAT IS A SELLING POINT.
5|Excelente The service at the store and the products are great.
4|Pictures come out nice; like the fact everything is right at my finger tips.
4|Loved this tablet from the moment I laid my eyes on it.
4|Purchased for wife to play games on and it seams she can't put it down.
5|I took it on vacation as opposed to my traditional laptop (to stay in touch with work, it was wonderful. Wished I had purchased it sooner.
4|Bought this for my nephew...he loves it! I'm glad I purchased it.
5|Having a samsung phone, it was very easy to learn to use this tablet. I have a very expensive Asus tablet and do not like it half as much as I like my Tab 4.
3|Samsung makes great displays and this is what this tablet has going for itself. Nothing else to talk about get the asus memeo 7 instead
5|This 7-inch tablet does everything I need it to do, from checking email to playing games to browsing the internet. With tons of Android apps available, I'm sure to find one for any task I want to perform, and this device can handle it all!
5|I purchased one for my grandmother and she LOVES it! I am constantly adding more things for her to keep her happy. Would definitely but another.
1|Bought for my son to use for educational apps and I spent more time resetting it than he did using it. Returned within 48 hours and replaced with an iPad mini.
5|Excellent color quality, very user-friendly and has a good camera. It's my first tablet, and it's perfect for on the go.
5|The size is great for my boys. Resolution quality is great.
5|Went into store to buy new kindle and received advice to get samsung tablet for better resolution and screen and wifi capabilities. Really good advice, love the tablet!!
5|Samsung galaxy products are some of the best out there
5|Phone works great with many apps to choose from, large screen
5|My son got this from me for a Christmas present and loves it....it is good for basic uses. I would recommend the 16g so there are more options you can load on it. Many people said if you want a tablet, go with Samsung. It works great and I have already told others about the device. I would definitely buy another tablet from Samsung. Good product for the price!!! I happened to purchase one in an open box so there was additional savings. The Samsung rep was so helpful!!
5|This is compact enough my husband takes it everywhere with him. He loves it.
5|This is my first "real" tablet. I had purchased a Coby tablet about a year ago. That was a very limited and klunky experience. Coming from that, this tablet is amazing. Plus it is really inexpensive for what you get. It's fast, the screen looks sharp. I watch Netflix, NBA League Pass, and Hulu on it. No stutter, very nice screen to view shows and games. I don't play many games on it. I like the smaller size because I can put it in my pocket just like I do with my phone. The larger sizes are probably nicer, but they won't fit in my pocket like this one. For me, that was important.
5|My daughter bought this in his very excited. She thinks it's great
5|I have several tablets in my household and by far this is the best one. The clincher is the expandable memory.....you can't get that with the I-pads.
5|I really like this tablet. It's small and lightweight but pretty powerful. I have not had any problems so far. It has done what I needed it to do with no problems.
5|great product great price fast delivery well packaged
4|Bought this for my husband, who is technology challenged. After a couple of days, he is able to play games, check his email and surf the web fairly easily. He is really enjoying his new toy.
4|It does what I expect from it, and more...........
5|Samsung products are my favorite. I love the features they have and how each product can mirror each other.
5|very good product, my son uses it all the time, he loves it
3|No flash to take pics. Pics come out blurry. Nice!
5|My first tablet came from Santa. I am thrilled because I can do things without the need to log onto a PC. It is fairly easy to get used to using the Apps.
5|We have the Samsung and a Google Nexus. I don't like the nexus. I am going to get another Samsung Galaxy!
5|Bought for my 7 year old for Christmas. He really enjoys it.
5|Perfect for any member of the household, my son, my grandmother and myself!!
2|This device is ok for a child. It doesnt compare to an ipad but for the price it is its the best option out there. Its kind of confusing how to download certain apps. Had to watch a yourube video to figure out how to do it.
5|We bought these items for our son. He loved them! Tablet works wonderfully.
5|This is an excellent tablet! Purchased two of them for 9 year old girls. Had to reset once only due to chicks forgetting password
5|Great tablet for young kids.. Especially if its their first tablet..
5|It is a great tablet and it is very easy to use for a technology beginner
4|Compact and good value for the money, does what I need it for
4|Better than kindle and nok with latest android on it plus an micro sd slot for music and play movie while in a long travel. It serves it's purposed! :)
3|My nephew enjoy it every since he got in christmas
5|The tablet is everything I expected and more I really love it.
5|I have used this tablet often. I love the easy of it.
5|Even though the display is not ultra high resolution it is bright and crisp. Apps run very fast and graphics speed is impressive. Has not crashed even once.
5|Great product got it for playing music and love i.
5|I have tried other tablets but the Samsung is great for internet use as well as other projects
4|I have much to learn about what this tablet is all capable of doing but it is fun to see each new thing. Nice size to carry in purse. So many free apps to browse. Easier to quickly use than a laptop.
5|Great price! Easy to use! Durable! Would definitely recommend to a friend!
5|I bought this item for my husband and he loves it...
4|Easy to use. APP selection is great. Would recommend
4|Samsung Galaxy Tablet is fabulous!!! My daughter absolutely loves it and I love it. I will be getting one for myself in a couple of weeks!
4|I bought this for my 11 year daughter and she loves it.
5|Best CHRISTmas present ever !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5|Very easy to use an navigate. The kids first used to read books and now use it to help with their homework.
4|I bought this tablet for my mother since she wanted one to play games and stream some videos. She loves that it's very lightweight and easy to hold and carry.
4|Got it for my wife, she loves it and my young son also
5|Great camera. Perfect size. Very fast and easy to use.
5|I received this as a Christmas Gift and just love it. Easy to learn and just the right size. Not too big and can be held with one hand. Charges quickly and has good resolution. Very satisfied.
5|Tablet worked for what we needed. Was Christmas present for my daughter. She likes it a lot.
5|I have one of my own. The only way I could use it when family was around was to buy them one.
4|The tablet delivers everything we need. Perfect for my boyfriend and son
4|The resolution is great, the size is perfect for carrying everywhere you go and you can stream, download, play games and enjoy your apps in a great size. Not to big nor to small.
5|awesome enjoying it cant put it down would recommend to every one
5|This is my first tablet and I find it to be very user friendly, I am looking forward to learning as I explore all it has to offer.
4|It's "okay" for the price (sale price of $150.00). Nothing to brag about or recommend. It'slow in my opinion .. Can't even handle Candy Crush or Gummy Drop. I kept it just for social media and portability but other than that .... thumbs down. I would also like to mention that I watched and read reviews along with iPad Mini Vs.Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 comparisons and they all said it was a tie.... WRONG! so so so Wrong! There is absolutely no comparison between the both. iPad is WAY better in every way.
4|It was easy to figure out and to set up. It can do a whole let of things a Ipad can not do. And a lot of games are free, It's great
5|Can't beat the speed and ease of use of this tablet. Samsung has done it again. A bargain priced tablet that works like a much more expensive one.
5|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 47.0 was a Christmas gift for one of my daughters. She is enjoying the overall ease of use, the portability, having a larger screen than her phone for internet searches when away from home. She loves it!
4|Has lots of features, but not real happy with picture quality. I wish you can take a snapshot picture of another picture that you already have on the tablet.
5|My son lost the first one, so I purchased another.
4|Great tab 4 on sale was tough to resist during the holidays
5|This is my mom's first tablet and founf it easy to use.
5|Great price/value and nice beginner tablet . Runs apps smoothly , and has enough oomph to run some gaming apps .
5|i love it i play with the tablet all the time its great
4|Great first try at using a fitness wristband. Easy to set up and start out using. Not sure I would have bought at full price though without the Bluetooth syncing.
4|My son enjoys this tablet. It has some short comings but it does everything he needs it to do.
5|The size is perfect, way better than the I pad or any other tablet
5|Lightweight and quite portable. Easy to use, and can install photos via SD card.
5|Bought this for my boyfriend for Christmas. So worth it. Great tablet. Nice picture. He uses it everyday.
5|Bought this as a gift for our son but I was able to play with it a bit and loved how easy it was to use and navigate. Will be buying one for myself soon.
5|Feels premium for a very good price and very handy
5|Easy to use. My nine year old loves it. She learned how to use it within the hour she got it.
4|great tablet. quick and easy to use. just a little bit too small though. too expensive also.
5|This product is a great unit for usage similar to intended tablet usage.
5|Best tablet for the price. Screen size is perfect for children or any adult. I purchased it for my mother who is a beginner and she loves it.
5|it is great for all kids ages 7-14 I would recommended for all kids ages
5|Love my tab, works perfect with all the apps that I download.
5|This tablet tab 4 it's much better than my previous tab 3 it has better resolution and the best of all you can move the app's to the external memory card, which on the previous one it was not possible.
5|I love this tablet. It has smart transfer and I was able to transfer all of my apps that I had from a previous tablet. I mostly love the feature to monitor your heart rate,steps that you walk and to place yourself on a fitness challenge.Very easy to use. I love the kid mode my grandson can play on it.
5|I bought this for my husband and now he is hooked on all the fun stuff.
5|I purchase this tablet for my 13 year old son for Chritmas and he is very pleased with it. He says it is very simple and easy to navigate the different apps and programs on it. He absolutely loves it!!!
4|I bought this tablet for my son for Christmas and he's loving it. So far everything has worked perfectly and he is extremely satisfied with it.
5|The tablet I bought was affordable and exactly as advertised.
5|This tablet is so much easier to use and understand than the I Pad. Takes great pictures, crisp and clear.
4|The Galaxy Tab 4 is more of a budget friendly tablet. Its not a tablet that will blow you away with its specs, but for the price of $150.00 its a good buy. Above that price I would consider another tablet with better performance if I have to pay over $150.00. Samsung's interface can be a bit lagging at times and the options or features are not as much compared to the next samsung tablet model. This tablet has a more that decent screen resolution. I would say this is a tablet aimed for kids. More sutiable for a person looking for a tablet for kids rather than buying a tablet designed primarily for children e.g nabi, leapfrog.
5|I'm a Samsung preferred user. Between my phone, note 10.5 and now this tab, I love it! Easy to hold and use for whatever you need to do.
5|I bought this tablet for my boyfriend for Christmas. It is his first tablet and he loves it. It is perfect for what he needs it for (example: facebook, emails, camera )
5|its very easy to use and useful for about anything I need it for.
5|really good tablet. I works very good and is very fast.
4|Simple to use. Does not have a steep learning curve to use. The price was fair.
5|my wife is very happy with performance of her new galaxy tablet
5|I purchased this as a gift for my grandson to play his music collection in his car. He has stored all of his music on a micro sd card and needed a nice reliable android tablet that could read the card and run his favorite android music player. The product fit the need perfectly and with Sansung reliability, I'm sure it will work flawlessly for years to come.
5|We got this for our 9 year old son. It's a great tablet. We picked up a case and a gorilla glass screen protector, and he's good to go. It runs all his apps no problem including his online homework. It's got a standard micro USB charging port so no hunting for that special charging cord all over the house. This device is great for long trips in the car or whatever. Again Great device and great platform.
4|Bought this for my 11 year old son and he LOVES it. It's easy to use, the screen size is decent and the graphics are pretty good.
5|This has been the greatest gift ever! I highly recommend it to everyone.
4|Got this on sale before Christmas. Great bang for buck.
5|This tablet was purchase to replace a broken Nook - Works as advertised
5|Very good picture definition, good apps, easy to use
4|purchased this tablet as a christmas gift for my mother. Works like it should with no issues. store was sold out of the one in the flyer and the associate gave me a few other comparable options in the same price range
5|Not to big not to small, it works like a dream!!!!
4|Nice features, great price, but not as intuitive as iOS
5|Bought it as a Christmas gift, and my nephew seems so happy with his new tablet...
4|This is a great product! Highly recommend! Easy to navigate
5|If you're looking for a highly portable tablet for email, reading, web surfing, games and video, this is it. Got this one for my 21 year old son and he absolutely loves it. It's thin, light, has a great display and expandable storage. Oh, yeah. It's also a Samsung... So I know it also has great build quality and it's backed by the Samsung company and in store reps. Thisis a fantastic tablet!
5|Bought this tablet for my daughter and havent had any problems. Cant go wrong with a samsung.
5|My wife absolutely loves this! I surprised her with this for our anniversary and she was absolutely ecstatic when I gave it to her, and best of all it didn't break the bank! But at the same time the quality is amazing!
2|Samsung are known for its great picture quality. This is the 3rd Samsung product that I have had to return within one month after I purchase it.
5|Great price clarity is awesome and size is really convenient
5|I had a great experience and quick when I purchased
5|Bought this as a Christmas present, used it before I wrapped it. Good speed with wi-fi, love the android apps. Would buy another.
5|I would definitely recommend this tablet to others. Easy to use and love the design.
5|This tablet is very simple and easy to use also!!!
5|Great for reading and doing quick doodles. Only issue is that the keyboard is too tiny for my giant giant hands!
4|My son has wanted a tablet for a year now. With my son in 1st grade, I realized it would be a great tech toy for him to use as a tutor. It's easy for him to use and understand.
5|It is a nice tablet,has many features.I like that my son can grow into it and it will grow with him.However I think it is too expensive.
5|santa got me this so when we travel would be easier to take along
5|My grandson loved the tablet. It has great features &amp;amp; a lot of aps that he enjoyed. He downloaded a few of his games &amp;amp; played them all the time! He totally loves it!
5|I purchased this tablet for my 11yr old son, its the perfect size for him take along with him on outings. Easy to use and tons of free apps available through the play store. A plus for both of us.
5|I enjoy the product. Still need a few more lessons on how to get around but it's all good
4|Great product. Fast, easy to use. So far so good. It's much faster than the tab3. Camera is good quality.
5|I bought this as Christmas gift for my wife and ever since she opened it she has not put it down!!!!
5|Gave this to my boyfriend for Christmas...He uses it everyday and loves it! No problems at all!
5|Great gift for my boy! And every day use for his homework. I recommend it!
5|He is loving it and getting lots of use. Just the right size.
4|This tablet has won me over. My only regret is that I didn't get the tab pro. The price difference was so slim I should have been a little less tight with the cash .
4|works different than my widows 7 computer, but was easy to adapt to. large enough print so at 70 years old I can read it.
4|Nice smaller tablet for a teenager. And the extra storage capacity is a good feature
4|This tablet is sturdy and heavy duty. Great for children. It takes a little time to learn to navigate but worth it!
5|Bought this as a gift for my husband and he loves it. Uses it every day.
5|We bought it on December for my little brother and has been playing since then
5|Bought this for my dad at Christmas and he loves it!
5|meets all requirement, is easy to use, visibly bright and compact.
5|I love love love my new tablet!! Could not have picked a better one. I always trust the Samsung brand and they do not disappoint with this tablet. I recommend this to one and all.
4|Purchase as gift and they really enjoy the tablet.
5|i bought this for my nephew he never puts it down.
5|We purchased this tablet for my son, who loves my wife's Galaxy S5 phone. They both share the same Android operating system. It has a kids mode and she was already very familiar with the parental controls. I added a protector for $15 and it has been a great tablet for him.
4|This item was purchased for an individual in Jamaica because they are so darn expensive there compared to here. It was performing as advertised when I left the island.
5|I purchased this tablet to give it as a gift and I know she loves it.
5|Bought this for my son along with the cover and we live ut
4|The tablet has provided hours of fun for my son and wife alike. Easy to use, but make sure to buy a good case to put it in.
5|I bought this tablet and swapped out my cars stock head unit for it. Looks awesome works great. No lag overall very good tablet. Can't go wrong with samsung.
5|Bought this for my wife to replace a Kindle and she loves it. Does everything the reader did and so much more for less.
3|you can't read any books outside. If you only want to read inside or do all things inside I guess it is okay. Plus the help I got at Samsung was very little. If I could of trade this back I would of
4|Bought this for my kids, so far, so good. They love it.
4|This was a gift for my wife. She is having a lot of fun with it. Got itunes on board and many of her favorite apps. No problems, lots of battery life. All good.
5|I got this tablet for my boyfriend for Christmas and he absolutely loves it! It is the first tablet him or I have owned so I don't have anything to compare it to, but we are very pleased with it. It is nice and light weight and easy to hold in one hand without feeling uncomfortably awkward. Since it was only 8GB I also bought the 32GB micro SD card to enhance the memory. Very affordable as well.
5|Very easy to set up for grandson but have control over what he can access on his own but at same time he can enjoy his tablet with you not worrying about what he is reading.
4|Great product nice size This product was a gift so was unable to actually use
4|good size, easy to learn, nice to have the ability to upgrade memory.
5|I replaced my old Galaxy with this new one and love it. Easy and never gives me grief.
5|Still finding new uses for it. My teen also loves it.
5|Bought this for my 3 year old on Christmas and he loves it...we made sure we had a strong case on it just in case it slips out of his little hands like it has and its been perfect so far...it's a great buy and works great! I need to buy myself one..the price is great as well..Definitely recommend!
5|My grandchildren love it too. Was a Christmas Gift
5|This was purchased for my husband and he really likes it, it's his first tablet , he doesn't like computers or any such thing. He's using it daily and says he likes it.
5|This tablet was a steal, perfect size, great performance.
3|This unit is a very comfortable size for my hands. It is well backlit, and easily read in a dark space. However, it is impossible to read outdoors in the sun
4|Looks r great but processor is slow compare to mini ipad, clarity is as usual better than anything. Either way I'm big fan of Samsung!
5|This is a great tablet, it has enough space for games plus movies.
5|Great for traveling light. Suggest buying an expandable memory card to enhance media storage.
4|got this for my son . he only had an Ipod before and the screen is much bigger. the only negative is he can't move a lot of his stuff from his Ipod to this but that is not the devices fault apple is no universal. he likes it a lot now. but at first he was oh a tablet but i have an ipod. then he realized that the screen is so much bigger than his i pod touch. he is very happy with it now
5|Tablet was purchased by my husband and me for our niece when she visits. However, this tablet is so nice he has taken it over when she isn't with us. The kids mode option is perfect for what we needed another tablet for. It allows adults to choose apps, music, etc. with adult held password. Though the tablet is not a kids tablet, it can stay in kids mode until a password is entered, then the tablet is back in full mode allowing all functions to be used. The resolution is amazing. Very generous app selection. And a great alternative to iPad. Another thing that stands out to us is the quality of camera--great pictures!
3|i shouldve gone bigger, some of the samsung apps do not work well. I dont think is the tablet just the apps itself
5|Awesome tablet for the money. Grear screen and easy to setuo and use.
5|Screen colors lush and jump out at you. Android system works great. Easy to add apps.
4|We now have 3 Samsung tablets in our house. The Tab 4 is the latest purchase for my son. My daughter and I have 3's. We highly recommend these to anyone. They are durable, fast and conveniently sized. Only reason I don't give them 5 stars is that it is hard to find cases for them and they tend to be more expensive. The fact that you have a SD card for additional storage is great, and the android operating system means that it is much cheaper for kids to get apps.
5|Little but powerful. lots of options on this tablet...
5|This tablet is no joke! It's fast and has a great camera. It was a great choice!
4|just purchased and so far it's ok. It's too early to give a complete review
5|I bought this for my daughter in a bundle package. It came with a Samsung memory card and a case. She loves it.
4|I have purchsed two Samsung Tabs and both I would recommend. The volume on the Tab 3 is much better then Tab 4.
4|Perfect size for handheld tablet. Has all the bells and whistles, a lot of bang for the buck. Samsung is known for its quality and this does'nt let you down.
5|Great gift for 7 year old. He can't put it down and it works well.
5|Samsung galaxy tab 4 7.0 great tablet, light weight, excellent battery life, screen looks great. Used for daughter to watch videos great for her since it's so light with battery life lasting for hours she loves it.
4|If you like Samsung devices and you are looking for a small and inexpensive tablet this is a great device for you.
5|This has been the best tablet I've ever had. Easy to use.
5|This tablet is the best. It is super fast, easy to use, and the picture quality is just awesome. Many of the newer apps out there are fully compatible with this tablet. Makes watching movies on the go so simple.
3|A bit slow . But overall not a bad tablet. Not bad for the money.
5|It does everything it says it will do. Anyone should think about getting it for a tablet.
4|Was a Christmas present for my granddaughter, She loves it . Takes with all the time. Good way for her to learn before she needs a larger laptop. Salesman Joe recommended the galaxy highly. Thanks for the help.
4|Samsung - Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 - 8GB - Black operates just like my phone.
5|My mom is 96 years young.she is currently using the tablet for playing card games. Will continue the process.
4|First off we love Samsung electronics so it was a no brainer to purchase this tablet. It's great! Great thing about it was my husband has a Galaxy S4 phone and he was able to link the two together without any issues.
5|This is my first time purchasing a tablet for myself and I thought it was going to be hard to work but it works just like my phone.... Love it!
5|Is very easy to use . I will say almost the same as an iPad so no doubt that I recommend it to others
5|Don't settle for an off brand. Samsung quality is a great value. All the features you need for productivity, personal entertainment, social networking and more. A great sized tablet for on the go!
4|The tablet lack in the speed area you can't play over the top games. Even clash of clans lags a bit but still playable. But for the price you can't beat the screen clarity. The screen sold me when comparing to other tablets at that price it just made other tablets look out dated overall I love it. just wish it had faster processor.
4|Good little tablet. My son loves it except for the storage, not enough for all his stuff. Can buy extra storage for pictures and movies but we have trouble accessing it. Also the first one only lasted a year. It just stopped working one day and when we sent it out to be fixed they said would cost $169 to fix more than new price. So we lost all pics and games that were saved on it, which sucks. Make sure u get a durable cover!
5|neice needed something to keep her busy and this does the trick
5|My granddaughter loves her computer has no regrets
5|We got this for our 7 year old. She loves it and was able to do all things.
5|My son loves having his own tablet and downloads several apps with no problems. He has a variety to choose from and also is able to get on the Internet.
5|I bought this for my son for Christmas and I really love how clear the screen is as well as the lightness of it. I already have a Tab 3 and there is a huge difference.
5|I couldn't be happier my car rides are much quieter and even my 7 month old baby gets in the action :)
5|My fiancé loves it. I purchased it for him for xmas
5|This is a great tablet for small children. Very easy to use.
4|first tablet my husband has ever used and he is NOT computer literate. he has had no problems, and enjoys using it
5|My daughters love the new Samsung tablets we got them. I have a hard time getting them to put them on charger for the night!
5|my view of the product is outstanding and wouldn't recommend it to a friend
5|Purchased this for my husband as a gift. We had matching 2013 10.1 models and he wanted a smaller screen but liked some of the features exclusive to Samsung tablets. This tablet worked out perfectly for what he was wanting, same Samsung features and beautiful display, but more portable than the bigger model he had. Plus he enjoys the updated version of Andriod.
5|Again i first i thought it would be to small but after having it i'm obsessed and LOVE IT!
5|I love the Tab 4. It's easy to use, good sized and works great. It runs faster than I've heard the Tab 3 runs. I've not had any problems. I have an iPad but I love this fits right inside a purse or a back pocket. Loved it so much, I went and bought a white one too.
5|This tablet is amazing. Just the right size and runs app quick and instantly.
5|This was an amazing Christmas gift for my husband. He has enjoyed the ease of use on it. He's not very tech savvy but this fits him nicely and has the ability to enhance his skills. I would suggest this to anyone who's looking for a great product from an awesome company,.
4|Nice screen quality and user friendly. Overall, very nice.
4|I bought this tablet mainly for Remote Control use with my Samsung TVs via IR transmitter. This tablet works as all Android Galaxy devices.
5|This is a very user friendly and reiable tablet. I would purchase it again.
5|I truly love my Samsung galaxy tab 3, but I brought the Samsung galaxy tab 4 for my son birthday. I wish I would have gotten the 4 for myself also. I just love the picture clarity and all I can do on the tab.
5|it is easier and faster than using a laptop, the access to the internet is faster, like it.
5|I purchased this on a Manager's Special, and I must say that this was by far the best in town. It is very easy to use and does everything I need it to do. From checking emails, paying bills online, banking online, reading eBooks, taking and editing pictures, you name it. This little tablet can do much and more.
5|easy to use, 7 inch just the right size. get a good cover so it stands up properly, and put on screen protector immediately out of the box
5|This is a very good tablet worth the money you spend on it.
2|I'm disappointed that about half the stoarge is used up right from the package becasue Samsung puts on too many preinstalled apps. They cannot be deleted and it's a family tablet so we would want to put many apps on for everybody's interest (and there's only 3 of us). Also, if you didn't know, apps cannot be installed on external memory. I wasn't able to even put 24 apps on the device before it started to tell me it was out of storage space.
5|A good tablet, but the bigger one would have been a better choice. After using it for a while, I wish I had gotten the big one.
5|Love that is easy to set-up. My son can't put it down, use this more than his own phone. Screen size is good for watching all videos and his love that he can change the channel on our home TV.
5|I love my new Samsung Galaxy 4 tablet. It's easy to use and performs great!
5|It works great it does everything I wanted to do and my son love's it
5|does every thing an 8 yr. old wants to do ..... games , , camera. movies...
5|I got one for each of my kids and we all love it very much.
5|great product for 11 through 7 years olds. Price was good.
5|We bought this for my mom who is in her 60's she is not all that "tech savvy" so we were a little worried about whether she could use it. She has had no trouble with it and loves it!
5|This is my first tablet, I am enjoying it very much.
4|I already own a Samsung tablet and enjoy it so much I purchased this one as a gift.
4|Love it it's does every thing I wanted it for and has great picture
5|My son loves his tablet so easy for him to use amazing
5|I purchased two of these tablets for gifts. Both recipients were very happy. Great value for the money.
5|Recently bought this tablet for my business. I wanted something that my customers could use to sign contracts and invoices. This is exactly what we needed. I love that it so easy to connect via Wi-fi and syncing my apps was a breeze.
4|i would recommend this device to anyone who wants to watch youtube and movies
5|This is my third Samsung device and am pleased with the quality. The tablet is easy enough to use that my kids like it for playing on.
5|This Tablet Was A Gift For My Niece And She Absolutely Loves It, She Uses It Everyday. I Used One At Store, And It Was Pretty Awesome I Would Get One. When I need to upgrade tabs
5|Way better option then the I version for a younger kid. Then again wit wifi may be on par wit the upper I-versions!
3|Sold it to a friend. We bought the Tab Pro instead.
5|I purchased this tablet for my husband who enjoys playing casino games as it is a lot nicer than using his smaller phone. I feel like I lost my husband because he loves this tab so much! :)
5|great job i love the service.nice people to talk with
4|I liked it but the screen was a little small for what I needed.
4|I've only had/used/purchased this tablet for 2 months. It was an easy adjustment from my previous apple products (ipod, iphone, ipad2). I like the ui. No problems to report , yet
5|this is a quality product from Samsung for the money. great gift.
4|got it for my son for xmas, he reads a lot and is perfect for that
1|Battery doesn't last long at all, very slow, not satisfied with purchase!
5|I got this tablet for my son and he loves it. Its the perfect size to carry around. Also it downloads games very fast and the color is nice and bright.
3|Decent Tab for the selling price I paid. However, every time the camera is flipped the camera will no longer work. The only way to fix it is to completely reset the Galaxy. Extremely annoying especially when the button is accidently pressed. I'm going to replace for another.
5|Bought this for my 6 year-old. It's the perfect size and perfect price! Love the kids mode- I can set a time limit and don't need to argue about turning it off!
5|My son really enjoys playing with Dad's iPad but it's too risky so we bought him the Galaxy Tab. He loves it. He can play his learning games and watch movies when we go out of town.
4|Good for the price, light, performance is ok, 8GB is enough for the apps, however you can use a good capacity memory card and move the apps or photos to the card
5|I love this product, it's works great for me and I like the most that I can plug in a micro memory card which is a big benefit for me
5|My daughter received this tablet for Christmas. She absolutely loves it, says it is the best gift she has ever received. It is the perfect size and so far does everything she needs. We love our samsung products.
5|Wanted to try something other than an I pad. Love the size and capabilities.
2|I bought this tablet as more of an experiment to see if i would like and or get much use out of it. I did find that I do like it and use it quite a bit. I was excited to try out KitKat and explore it's new features. Having been an android user for the last 4 years, I was very comfortable with this Samsung right off the bat. That is, until I tried to save something to the SD card. With KitKat, that action is a "no go" due to security measures. While my SD card hasn't been rendered completely useless, it's pretty close to that state for me. I'm not a "power user" by any means and thought when I bought my card with the tablet, I would have more than sufficient storage. I don't. My research is telling me that "Lollipop" has addressed this issue, but i won't get it until Samsung decides to let me have it. This device is on the low end of their spectrum, so it's not high on the priority list. So, my lack of research over something I thought wouldn't change burned me out of some cash. Overall, I'm happy with the way this tablet performs, but until the storage issue is corrected I'm done with the Android OS. If all I have is internal storage, then that is the last hurdle for me to go iOS.
4|I bought this tablet to gift my brother. The tablet is very easy to navigate. Its fast and easy to use. I would recommend!
4|This is a great tablet. It is especially useful for college students who may not be in a position to get iPads. It is also very easy to transfer files onto this tablet, and it is easy to use the google features such as the books, videos, and music apps.
5|I have owned this tablet for over six months and love it for when I'm away from my computer. I have a track phone, no smart phone. So this is great for being on the go. Wi-Fi works great for checking email, banking, etc.. during the day. Great performance.
5|This unit replaced my Nook Color. I was very pleased to find out it is so much more than the Nook. I can get books from numerous places and am not tied in to B&amp;amp;N only. It has a Kindle App and has the ability to access my FB account, emails an almost anything I wanted to do. I am very pleased with my purchase.
5|The tablet Samsung galaxy was the Best gift for my son. He loves it. The resolution and speed are great
3|I got this as my second tablet. I do have an iPad Air, but I wanted something smaller for chatting, games, and some internet browsing. I wanted Android tablet to play with and customize, because as we all know Apple restricts customization. Tablet build quality is not bad. After all its $150 tablet. I bought it on sale. Back of the tablet is nice, it has sd slot so you can expand memory, speaker is ok, pretty small if you ask me. They should of added bigger speaker. I was disappointed by the screen. Resolution is not that good. Its not retina. You can see pixels. All this that I said is minor, like I said its $150 tablet. One thing that disappoints the most is the performance of this tablet. Its very slow. It doesn't open pages fast. I used iPad side by side to compare page opening. This tablet lags extremely behind iPad. This might not be a fair comparison because iPad is $500 tablet, but I have to compare it to something that I have. This tablet is not fluid as iOS tablets. Apps seemed to lag as well. Im not sure if this is due to overall performance of this tablet or not. Games stuttered. Overall its not bad for $150. It will be good for kids to play on it. If you have another higher dollar tablet, this tablet will not perform as good as that one. I will be taking this one back and possibly getting Samsung 12.2 to test it. All in all, this tablet is meant for kids, if you grown up get something with better performance.
4|I am a Apple user (Pad, Pod), but was looking for an alternative to the increasingly expensive Ipads (mini'air) in a smaller format. The price was right (holiday special) and the apps are extensive. I appreciate the ability to expand memory via a card in contrast to the Apple OS memory hog.
4|Great tablet for the cost. I like Samsung products and like that it's synced to my phone.
4|I bought the Samsung Galaxy tablet - and brought it home and charged it up and turned it on - and stopped. I am an older lady , with not much tech savvy. What may be obvious to a teen - who grew up with touch screen devices - is not obvious to me. I finally bought Samsung Tabs for Dummies and am studying it chapter by chapter - hoping that I will someday "get" it and be able to utilize the device to it's potential - but it's slow going -
5|I bought the Samsung tablet for my grandson for Christmas. He's 10 years old. He loves it. Easy for him to use etc.
5|Found this easy to set up and also connet to WiFi. Very pleased with purchase for adult handicapped individual.
5|I think this is a great girt for a first time user
5|I love my Samsung tablet I would highly recommend it .
4|Great tab, like having a minì computer only negative is reading outdoors
5|Love this, easy for my kids to use. Way better than other tablets.
5|bought this tablet for my wife for xmas. she was very surprised. she has thoroughly enjoyed it ever since.
5|This tablet is awesome for everyone. Kids or adults.
3|A pretty good gift for someone that isn't too tech savvy and wants an iPad or another higher end powerful tablet. Haven't had an issue and pretty easy to setup.
4|Bought this tablet for my younger grandchildren for Christmas and it has been a great hit. There are numerous available aps for all needs. This is a reasonably priced tablet that is also of good quality, unlike the previous tablet they owned.
5|Superb tablet for most of your needs, not for the power user ( tab pro or tab s for that). Excellent for my family's web browsing, social media, and Netflix needs. Plays most games great, but graphic intensive games bog it down a bit. Also the 8gb memory is a challenge but just put a memory card in it and your fine.
5|Great price, great product. Got this on cyber Monday, easy store pick up. Smaller than your average tablet but the speakers are good and easy to use.
5|This was my first tablet, and I am very impressed with every aspect of it. Easy to use, and great battery life.
5|Ive been buying lots of Samsung products because they're reliable. And got this galaxy tab for my kid and he loves it.
4|I purchased this as a gift and it was a winner! Great for watching movies and surfing the Internet.
4|I really enjoyed the features of the Galaxy Tab. It's a little small if you're trying watch movies but it's to be expected.
5|I had a tab 3 andit was great so i gave it to my daugher and I upgraded to the tab 4 and I'm very happy with samsung
5|Replaced my original Tab 3 with the Tab 4. It is easy to use. Has a few additional features such as split screen. I have enjoyed it.
5|Love this tablet and all the stuff i can do..watch movies on it most of the time!!???
5|This tablet is easy to use and the buying experience was nice &amp;amp; easy.
3|This tablet just comes up short on a lot of important aspects when you need them. Like the system memory, what can 8gb get you in apps and storage when it is filled with 4gb of required running system memory. The sd card does not make the app system memory bigger fyi. Small Screen size is okay for on the go but for movie watching it can get difficult. I got the 8.4 pro model instead faster performance, better screen resolution and 16gb! All for almost the same price why would you not.
4|We have several Samsung products in our home including appliances, cell phones, and other Galaxy tablets. We bought 4 of these tablets for our kids for Christmas. While the tablets are good quality and are consistent with our other Samsung products; these tablets are dramatically undersized in the storage space department. At 8.0gb you would think it has enough for a lot of kids games and apps but the google OS takes up almost half of the space, not leaving much room. We wound up purchasing SD cards to boost the space, but felt the limitations of the space were not spelled out enough. It should be more clear how much of the space is needed just for the basic OS before purchase.
5|I bought this tablet for my daughter's boyfriend, and he loves it!
5|The Galaxy Tab is perfect for me. Great for searching the Internet, checking e-mail, calendaring, and billing clients.
5|It's great. It's perfect. I would recommend to anyone that is looking for a tablet.
5|I love this tablet. I bought it for my dad for christmas and he can't put it down. He loves how easy it is to use. Great buy at such a great price!
5|Great product for my kids, they can do a lot on it
5|Very easy to set-up. Easily takes the place of a laptop when out and about. Kindle for Samsung is great app for downloading books.
5|Perfect size and does way more than an iPad I love it!
5|I bought this Samsung Galaxy Tablet for my Grandchildren. They love them and hardly put them down. I have an older Galaxy tablet that is holding up very well and want my Grandchildren to have a quality tablet that will last for years.
4|So far this tablet is very nice with an excellent display. Very lightweight.
5|I love my tablet 4 and won't trade it for anything.
4|I just got it and it seems OK but it freeze but it is a great overall tablet.
5|Really liked this product but had to turn to get the white one for my son Christmas present.
5|We are all very pleased with this product. My kids really love it
4|I bought the tablet for my 5 year-old Son who loves the Google Play Store. It has an 8GB storage so he's able to download a ton of games. Unlike the Kindle Fire/Amazon. It also has a micro scan disk port which support up to 64GB for all his pictures, videos &amp;amp; music. The camera isn't doesn't have a flash but works great in lighted scenes. He doesn't mind so long as he don't have to delete any in order to add more to his library.For me it is what I expected and more.I no longer have to share my phone for games or You Tube funniest kid videos.
5|Prefer using this for apps/games than on our phone.
5|Got this gift for my mom, and everything she's done with it, she's absolutely enjoys it. Simple, easy and just the right size.
3|Overall, the product is decent. Storage space is smaller than expected. With few apps added it is even difficult to review emails because of spacing issues. Outside of that my son loves it.
5|Bought these tablets for my boys (age 4) for Xmas. They already knew how to play games on our Samsung phones so Samsung tablets were obvious choice. Keep in kids mode for them to keep them from changing settings. We're glad we decided to go with these over "kid" tablets. Another great Samsung device.
5|Love the tablet. All Galaxy products are awesome. We haven't had any problems or issues with them.
5|I love this tablet it does everything I need and want it to do. Great Christmas gift
5|This is a great tablet and I got it when it was on sale I couldn't b happier or could my b daughter
4|This purchase was to replace a Nabi2 for my son. It will stay in Kid Mode which has worked great thus far. I do need to make a trip to the store to visit with Hal, Samsung rep, to give me the inside scoop on how to allow videos to play through Disney Movies and other apps as there are some apps that will not function in Kid Mode. Scratching my head on that one. I will update later after I get my Dad's tutorial for Kid Mode.
5|Wanted a small tablet to keep in my purse. It was just the right size and very light. Battery last very long. I only charge it every about every 3 days.
5|I had a Kindle fire before but I really like this one as well. I enjoy the camera.
5|Compact tablet size is great for travel. Will do what is required and great price. Note: max memory card 32 GB, not 64 GB!
5|Got it for my kids. They love it! Long battery life! Bright screen. Great for the price!
5|My husband loves it its just like his phone. He is always on it
5|Absolutely love this device. I bought it for my boyfriend but I have been using it more than him. Samsung products are the best!
5|I have never had a tablet before but this is just as good as my desktop .
5|Product works perfectly, and was obtained for a great price.
5|Everything that I expected. Blazing fast and full of features.
5|purchased for grandson's they loved them. easy to download games.
5|I love love this tablet. The only con is that it comes w only 8GB but a micro SD card will fix that. Samsung products are solid &amp;amp; reliable.
5|Right now the Samsung Tablets are the tablets to get.
5|I bought this tablet for my 8yr old son. He loves it. It's very easy to use and it's durable.
5|Great tablet. It has everything I need for home and school.
5|This is a great inexpensive quality tablet for someone who isn't tech savy at all. I bought this for my dad &amp;amp; he loves it. It's easy to use &amp;amp; not bulky. I would recommend this to anyone who doesn't want to spend a lot of money &amp;amp; still want the performance of a $300 tablet.
4|I was in another state when I purchased my tablet, everything went well, my only complaint is I was not offered any warranty protection. This was the day after Thanksgiving so the store was crowded, after being in a long time I didn't think about it until I was back in my home state and opened the merchandise.
5|I was concerned that it might be too small. It isn't. It's a perfect size and I can carry it in my handbag!
2|This is a great device for kids and adults alike. I would recommend it for anyone.
5|great little tablet will buy again my wife love this tablet.
5|After using the iPad for a long time, i felt this tab was much more portable, and cleaner. It was better and faster and had many other features which the iPad does not have. Expandable memory helps a lot too
4|Great screan quality and easy to use. Great camera.
4|It's easy to use and great gift for any teenager getting a smart phone for the first time
4|Oh how I love the Samsung Galaxy tab 4.. It is fab
5|Love to be able to lay in bed and play games at night while watching tv. Very lightweight.
5|The product is really good! It's simple and easy to use!
4|Very nice tablet. Great display and nice and compact. Kind of difficult to setup at first (probably because I'm used to Apple products.) but that's a decent trade off considering the price.
4|Bought this tablet for my advanced 6 year old and find that it works great for her. I was able to set up a restricted profile so she can only use what we want her to use. I picked up a 32 GB MicroSD card and she is very happy with music, movies, and games. My only sticking point is there are times it freezes up and nothing is responsive. Aside from that, great tablet.
5|Great tablet. It's quick and portable. I bought this for my 10 yr old son but the whole family uses it. It fits great into his hands to play his games. He had no problem playing his games and from what I understand these are some pretty heavy and graphic games. My only problem was that this tablet was cheaper at Barnes and Noble.
5|Great tablet!would highly recommend this to anyone looking for a tablet.
5|I had no idea this tablet could do so much. I am enjoying it very much every day. I have referred others already.
5|I was looking for a decent price tablet my kid could use so i bought a cheaper one for 129.99 and it was junk. Froze up the second day i got it. Returned it and got the Samsung 7 inch tablet and it's great. Easy to use, smooth operating system and the touch calibration is dead on. I've had it for 2 months now and my kid isn't the nicest person to it. It's holding up quite well. For 179.99 you can't go wrong. I'd buy it again. Simple as that.
1|battery dies quick and gets hot after a few hours!
5|I really like this tablet because everything syncs with my phone.
5|Again, it's Samsung! I hardly buy anything else. Throw in a Samsung 16 or 32gb sd card and it's even better!
5|This tablet is a lot better than the Kindle Fire. I originally bought the Fire and said my wife loved it. We weren't happy with it after a day, sent it back and ordered and ordered the Galaxy. It is superior in many ways and I would recommend it to a friend or family.
5|With a 7 inch screen it's plenty big for my teenager. Battery last pretty long for her uses - social media and music. The addition of storage via a SC card and she can store all the dongs and movies she needs for trips. Plus Samsung id the best for Android users in quality and durability
5|My kid was very pleased with the tablet, I'm glad I purchased it for him.
5|I'm very happy with this tablet, i recommend this tablet to every body.
5|I got this tablet for my sons 5th bday, the nabi jr was to baby-ish for him as he says. It was the best gift ever.
5|I've never been a fan of Apple Products, so I've become quite partial of anything Android-related. The operating system is quick, and the camera is fantastic. The ability to add expandable memory is also a huge plus. I purchased a 32GB MicroSD card to accompany the 16GB of internal storage. Far more than I'll ever need. Great, inexpensive and works wonderful!
5|The tablet is easy to use and perfect for my family!
5|Got this tablet for my mom... she likes it..And the best is that the store do price match. Easy to use.
5|The tablet works great and is exactly what i needed. Not bad for the price.
4|I like everything about this with the exception of the fact that I was told, and it was on the packaging that this was able to be added to my cell phone account, for internet, and only found out after buying that it is only wifi capable
5|Bought the tablet for my son he loves it, easy to use. Even better I've had the need to use it as well and it's been great
4|Overall it's a good tab. The battery run out a little too fast
5|Great Tablet! Love it much better than the iPad. Have had no problems with it so far.
5|Very good.nothing to say...........................
5|i loved it so much I got a second one today for my son. Cannot share it!
4|A little slow in procesaing but ita a great irem none the less.
5|The tablet is one of the best samsung products. It was a gift my my son. He loves it!
5|Love it! Perfect size for me very clear picture, great sound and easy to use because of the Android operating system.
1|I may just have got a defective one, but regardless my faith in Samsung definitely took a hit. It was fine for 1 week then one night I was trying to watch a Netflix video and the sound sounded like everyone was whispering. So I brought it back a different brand and its sooo much better than Samsung.
5|This is a excellent tablet. Being an avid reader, I love the ability to download both, Barnes &amp;amp; Nobles and Amazon books. The screen is crystal clear, and the color is just right. Great product!
5|Love my tab so much that I decided to purchase another one as a gift for someone.
5|Is a very good tablet for the price, great gift for the kids
5|i bought 2 of these because they are so great my kids would fight over them! Great product
5|Tablet is easy to use and my 11 year old loves it! Great product for a great price! Highly recommend!
5|I purchased this as a gift to replace a broken "Nook". She is very happy with it and says it is 5 stars. Much more versatile than what she was using.
4|This was a great purchase loaded with features and small enough not to get in the way
5|Overall great! decent size screen, no lagging which was a surprise, and maintains wifi connection which seems to be an issue with some tablets.
4|I bought this tablet for my 3 year old son. The size of the tablet is perfect for his hands and the screen clarity is great. He has no problem navigating the menus. I chose to create him a limited profile versus using kids mode because of the initial sign in requirements of kids mode. The limited profile is easy to maintain while providing the administrative restrictions needed for children. The option for adding a micro SD card is great for digital movies and games.
4|I love this tab for the price that it retail Pros. Good screen quality, it's light and easy-to-use, the processor it's a bit slow, but for the price I can't complain, the battery life is good i get around 8 to 9 hours of use,. Cons. Pictures quality is poor, not enough memory, and whit all the Samsung stuff that comes with it (bloat ware) it leaves you whit little to none space for the apps and pics that you might take, which at that point you need to get a SD card. But it its a good device,
5|Very easy to use by anyone simple to download apps and good for everyday use
5|Lite weight and easy to carry for quick reference.
5|It's fast and I love the interface. Perfect size that fits in your hand. Crisp and clear screen. Great to watch video or do email and internet search.
5|Love the new Samsung Galaxy. Very fast.. and great product for the reduced black Friday price..
5|I'm a big apple fan but have had the itch on getting an android tablet. I'm glad I did, it has a nice feeling and definitely not a cheap feel compared to other tablets I saw on showroom. Definitely get it, you won't regret it.
5|Fast, efficient. Teacher can program limited access to the Internet. Many useful apps, including a n office suite for word processing.
5|Tablet for 11 yr old daughter. Fast and efficient and easy to use. Real nice tablet for the price
5|This is a awesome tablet for my fifteen year old granddaughter.
2|Good tablet for the money. However, one of the selling points of android over iOS has always been expandable storage which no longer exists. Kitkat does not allow writing to the external SD card without rooting and hacking. There is also no OTG support and cannot find an HDMI cable that works with this tablet.
4|This is a good tablet for someone who needs real portability. The graphics are crisp. The Android operating system is fairly easy to learn. The sound quality is excellent. The ability to see a movie is not so good but better than watching it on a tiny phone. Excellent tablet for a traveler and allows data cards to hold almost unlimited data if desired.
5|I was hesitant to purchase a tablet, I was not sure I would like it but the sales person showed me this one which is just like my phone only bigger and I absolutely LOVE it!
5|Allowed me to not have so many apps I only use at home on my S4. With added storage I added it serves my needs quite well.
5|This tablet has excellent battery life, I charge it once a week. And typically use it for about an hour a day. I would definitely recommend buying this device to anyone. Great value, I love it!
4|Tablet is as good as advertised. Gave it to my daughter &amp;amp; she has already put about 50 apps on it &amp;amp; it is still moving at a great speed.
5|bought this for my 11 yr old nephew and he loves it
5|Great for gaming my kids love it to play and watch
4|The tablet is a great samsung product, and the only setback is that is doesn't work with the chromecast.
5|Bought both the white and black Tab4 for my boys...they love it!!!
4|Have a black one for me and a white for my wife. A lot less expensive then iPads and works just as well.
5|My son loved his samsung 7" tablet he said best birthday gift ever.
4|This is my first tablet and I am enjoying it. It is a great experience for me and I definitely would recommend it to everyone who is looking for their first tablet.
4|I only use it for reading books and it constantly jumps back a page or two, or goes back to home and I can't find the icon that takes you back to where you were. I am going to take a class at the library to learn how to use it. I should have stuck to the simplest Kindle. But I would recommend it to someone who knows what they are doing.
5|Easy to use and runs pretty fast for such a small device!
5|The Galaxy Tab 4 (7.0) us a great tablet for kids. It's sturdy and durable and has the latest Android can offer! The only Galaxy Tab better is the 10.0. If you want the best, the Galaxy Note is best, but for kids, I would recommend the Tab 4 7.0!
4|I've used both I pads and Samsung tablets I enjoy the Samsung more
5|My tablet is fast. It doesn't stall and really was worth the money. Samsung is a great product I only products.
5|I bought this tablet for my child, it's been a very good experience with it. So far no complaints but just thumbs up!.
4|Love the tablet my daughter enjoys it the battery stay up well to
5|Great tablet for my kids to play and research for school. And a great price!
5|This Samsung Galaxy is just the right size and works great!
4|I really like this tablet. Half the price of the iPad and can do just as much. my first android device.love the watchon app
4|The tablet is good for netflix and for checking email. processor is not really strong enough for productivity, but overall a nice tablet for playing and relaxing.
5|This tablet is amazing, I'm impressed with the ease of use, the battery life, and the overall performance of this tablet. I've drank the Samsung Kool-Aid and haven't looked back. After using this tablet for a month I decided to upgrade my phone to the Galaxy S5, sharing and transferring data has never been easier. Very Impressive!
5|I just got back from Europe and thorougly enjoyed this tablet. It was easy to cary with us. We used it for GPS, camera, internet, Facebook. It was fully functional and easy to use.
5|Perfect for what I needed it for. Easy to use and great storage. Couldn't be happier with my first tab.
4|I would recommend this product to just about anyone. Price was comparably low with other tablets in the same category and this one does a great job. It's quick and easy to use and has a good battery life. We have had no complaints with it.
5|we got this for our son (he was always asking to play games on our phones ) we installed "kids mode" and wow the apps and learning he is doing this product brings a lot to the table and keeps him happy plus he can grow with it and learn things without getting bored
5|My mother loves her first tablet. Easy to use. Not to complicated.
5|I purchased my tablet so I would not have to take my computer on frequent trips. Love it.
5|It is small, fits in my bags and does what I want.
5|Does everything I needed. Was out of town and this kept me in touch. Love it!
5|I really like the samsung galaxy tablet. It has a great camera.
4|Tablet is great but you can barley download any apps to the device. I recommend buying and external memory card
4|Ideal present for someone that's into electronics.
5|I bought this to use for Netflix and eBooks from Kindle, Nook, and the library. It does all that very well, has good battery life, and is fun to use. Get some kind of case, though. It is hard to hold without one.
5|I love Samsung. By far the best Tab I've ever had.
5|I bought this for business purposes and so far I love it!
4|I had bigger Samsung tablet size 10.1 which is rather heavy. So I bought a smaller one lighter to carry around.
5|Had a Dell of similar size and price that was much slower. It dropped and I am much happier with this as a replacement. Definitely get a protective case. I was thinking of more memory but instead will get a 64G SD card which will be transferrable if this one gets broken.
5|I've been using this tablet at home and work for a few weeks now. It is a solid product with which I am very happy (especially given the price point). If you make the choice to buy, I would suggest also buying a stylus and case.
4|Purchased this to use as I travel for business. Nice features without spending a fortune.
5|I would buy another one for somebody else as a gift
5|I purchased this for my mother. She is extremely happy with it.
5|Fantastic small tablet. It's fast, easy to use and exactly what I wanted.
5|Juggle tasks at work and enjoy movies at home with a tablet that is portable enough for your commute and powerful enough to keep up with your busy schedule. The quad-core processor provides quick performance that your entire family will enjoy.
5|I'm fairly new to electronic devices. I usually have to have my son or daughter help with everything I need to do. So far I have been able to do more on my own. I love the size and weight. Fits in my smaller bags and seems as though nothing has been added weight wise. I have recommended it to anyone who listens. I may purchase another one for the grands.
5|This is a great tablet. Screen is a good size and is clear. Runs smooth from app to app. Movies are clear and don't lag.
3|It was good for the first purchase of a Samsung product. It is not as user-friendly as I first thought.
4|My daughter loves her new tablet. After having an older model it was very easy for her to get used to.
4|Easy to use tablet that is the perfect size. I have been very pleased with this purchase. It also has a great price!!
5|Bought for daughter she loves it and is easy to use.Have'nt had any issues with it so far.Would recommend this to others.
5|After setting up my initial purchase, and experienced how smooth the device worked even with multiple apps open, I went back to purchase another one as as gift for my girlfriend. Good battery life and for me big enough for last minute checking of e-mail before going to bed, and then checking again after waking up without the small screen of my phone or the wait for my laptop to boot up. It's also sufficient size for video watching where ever I have wifi (McDonald's, doctors, dentist, etc...) I added a case and Bluetooth keyboard and it's perfect for meetings.
5|Great for watching tv online and playing games. Don't have to relearn because phone is a Samsung.
5|The small tablet market is hyper-competitive, with seven and eight-inch entrants from all of the major tech players making an appearance. Samsung has rolled out their new Galaxy Tab 4 line, which contains both seven and eight inch variants, plus a ten inch model. Samsung sent us a seven inch model
5|bought this tablet for use while watching tv etc. has been easy to use and a good solid buy
5|My husband uses this all the time and absolutely loves it! It's small enough to travel with, but big enough to watch tv/movies/sports on.
5|My wife loves it' do I have to say anything else &amp;amp; that's the end of that.
5|Surprised my wife with this tablet for her birthday. She has been very pleased with it. Seems easy to use &amp;amp; was a good buy.
4|It is sturdier than the Galaxy 3 and picture quality is good. My grandsons love their Galaxy 4.
5|This was a great deal and recommend for you to go buy this right now, hurry up
5|I really love this tablet. It's the perfect size, not bulky. Love the muti tab functions where I can work on several things at the same time. love watching movies on it. I'm happy with my purchase. I really love that I can add a Sd card. No complaints.
5|Bought this tablet for my boyfriend on his birthday. He has a Samsung Galaxy phone and I wanted to give him something to go along with his Galaxy gear. This was the perfect option! He loves the tablet perfect for when he is traveling. Very happy with my purchase.
5|My mother was looking for a tablet that she could learn to use for movies and Internet searches. Price wise it was right in our budget and easy enough to use for her to get more comfortable with technology. I find myself using it when she isn't so it's family friendly. Plus, I've never had issues with a Samsung product. Definitely a good item to pick up for everyone in the family.
4|Bought this to use with my vizio tv and have been happy.
5|I got this for my daughter to play games and it is wonderful! I don't have to worry about her going to things she doesn't need to on my phone and I can get all of the learning games she likes on here.
5|It is perfect for around the house and entertainment uses. It is not to big which is nice.
5|I love this tablet. I have an android phone and I love the fact that everything is compatible. I love the size as I am able to carry it everywhere with me. Fits in my purse nicely without weighing it down. It is quick and I love all of my apps on it.
5|Purchased for my 85 year old mother. She loves it!
4|When my Ipad went caput, I decided to pick up the Samsung Galaxy Tablet. I had recently helped my 9 yr old daughter purchase the same tablet. She loved it and so I decided to purchase one for myself. It was relatively inexpensive and I really didn't want to replace my Ipad at this time. The Samsung Galaxy Tablet is great for keeping up with my Clash of the Clans addiction!
4|Great speed . My 9 year old son loves it . I personally think is a little sensitive . Just need to buy a case as soon as possible because i think its slippery and its a matter of time my son will drop it .
5|my daughter can play games or research for homework anywhere
5|Love how it connects with my phone and its small so it can fit in my bag....it's the bigger version of my phone so it's easy to use.
4|I am student and find the tab 4 is perfect for school. Does not take up much room. Easy to use has a great quality screen.
5|Galaxy Tab 4 has all the basic apps needed for a beginner tablet and memory is expandable. Great price also.
4|Very easy to use with no real issues noted. Battery lasts about 4 hrs with continued use. Lightweight and love the clear screen
5|I have enjoyed this a lot. Runs fast &amp;amp; smooth, I'm so pleased with my purchase. Works great for what I was wanting &amp;amp; I enjoy the fact that it has a sd card slot for extra memory.
5|Very nice tablet, nice size. Works great, easy to use.
5|The Samsung galaxy four black is great the snap dragon processor is quick with hardly any delay, the menu is also very user friendly
5|Connected to WiFi right away. Very easy to use and very affordable
3|have had problems with charging port and could not get satisfaction at store . Am on vacation in Sarasota, Fl and received very poor service and customer care was non existent.
5|I bought this for my 7 year old and she loves it. it is big enough for her to be happy, but is also light weight and easy to carry around. it works really well and has good battery life. i would buy this tablet again.
4|if you are looking for a entry tablet this might be the best option. excellent O.S.
5|Love it use it for everything use it for netflix most the time
4|My son has this for watching you-tube videos and email and really enjoys it. It's simple to use and rugged enough that it won't break easy if he forgets where he places it.
5|This is a great item because not only is it fast it is very clear in picture. Sound quality could be improved, but over all great tablet. I use it in my car as a head unit. Samsung makes awesome items.
5|I love my samsung tablet and I would recommend this tablet to all. I absolutely love it! You won't be dissapointed, I promise
5|Very nice and easy to use tablet. Light weight. Clear definition
4|Love this tablet, only have 2 complaints, battery life and not enough memory
4|MY 12 YEAR OLD ENJOYS PLAYING GAMES ON IT AND LKIKES TAKING PICTURES WITH IT
5|User friendly tablet and all the features that I need were all inclusive with this unit. I will highly recommend this tablet to all my friend. The display is so clear and and it's so nice to play videos.
5|This is my second galaxy Tab and when its time to upgrade I'll be happy to purchase another. Reliable devices that include multi screen and fast charge USB
5|Love my tablet! Works great and really like all the features!!
5|easey to work with m would offer mine for anyone to test
5|Easy to set up and use. Bought it for a gift and they truly are enjoying the tablet.
5|It is a very convenient and useful product. It has impressive technology and a crystal-clear screen.
5|I would def recommend this to anyone. I use to always use apple but now I will be using samsung for everything!!!!!
5|this item was purchased for My darling 10year old Grand Daughter. I think She must like it a lot. it appears to be glued to her hands.
5|I already owned this tablet so I knew it was great. Bought this one for visually impaired husband because he can enlarge print to read it. Great for our Bible reading every day and for e-books from the library. He can make print really large so he can read it.
5|Bought this as a gift. My dad hasnt set it down!!!
5|the nexus devices due to their lack of bloatware. otherwise fine
3|I purchased this tablet for my three year old son along with the 2 year equipment protection plan and a case. After three days, the tablet was completely dead--it would not charge or power up. Returning it to the store was a nightmare as I was greeted with indifference and poor customer service. The replacement tablet I received has not given us any problems.
4|It is a very portable tablet, easy handling, just what I need
4|Handy; really nice size for students. Meets our needs!
5|The screen size is great. User friendly. Compact. Great price!
4|took a while to get used to, but every time I use it, I like it more user directions could be a lot better
4|I bought this tablet for my son, and he loves it. He plays on it every day. The graphics are good and he can find his way around the sites like a pro.
5|I bought this mainlay to play Clash of Clans. The tablet works great and handles the game with no problems.
4|I am a novice at keeping my life digitally. I am learning to learn by trial and error. The tablet is fairly straight forward and simple so memorizing functions is easy.
5|This is a super small tab, helps me keep up while on the go. My Grandson loves it also
5|Amazing display, very bright and clear. Ease of use. Excellent purchase.
5|Fast, easy and loaded with features. First tablet for me and I am very pleased
5|I love this tablet. Much better than apple products with ability to add storage. Great for kids who download a ton of stuff. Easy to use and love the fact that it's portable.
4|I love my new Tab 4! it's lightweight, and very powerful. I really like that I can have two windows open and running at the same time! It's small enough to take anywhere, and powerful enough to tackle any job I need!
4|We bought it for a company's give away. Client was really happy
4|This is my second Samsung galaxy tablet. I have the tab 2. I gave it to my 10 yr old and upgraded to the 4. The screen colors are beautiful. Camera could be better. Great price point.
5|I initially bought this tablet to be an e-reader, but found it to be so much more. I love it. The next tablet I get will have some mobile capabilities, so it could be used away from Wi-Fi hot spots.
5|Let their minds grow into this tech savvy world!!!
5|great tablet for the price, does what you need it to do. nothing fancy but that's not the point with this tablet
5|Easy and simple to use. Self explanatory, it's just like my phone and the camera is amazing. The pictures are so clear. This is better than a Canberra it does the same function but you can skate and send your pictures in a touch of a button. Love my tablet!!
1|I purchased this item along with extended warranty. It started malfunctioning almost immediately and stopped working completely in three weeks. Took in for repairs and haven't received it back yet. Attempted to charge me 190.00 dollars for an item 3weeks old. Extremely disappointed.
4|I haven't had any issues with the product. It's fast, bright, light, and easy to use.
5|Easy to use, battery life is excellent, screen resolution is fantastic
5|Easy set up, good battery life. Bought to replace Kindle, happy with choice.
4|good size for traveling but kinda hard to navigate.
4|Great product for the price , size is good for handling and viewing ,
4|This is my first tablet and I love it. It is so easy to use.
4|It's great for playing games. Size is perfect for travel.
5|I love the crystal clear picture and the awesome sound from the speakers!
3|Love the external build, small bezel, wide screen but slow. Not for the tech-savvy users looking for a smaller speedy tablet.
4|srsly guys, who cares about the freaking camera? I need the thing to read my e-mails and surf the net. It fits my pocket, I can hold it in my hand (and I don't have large hands)so I find it ok.
5|I bought this for my son for his 10th birthday. It's simple to use and set up. It is also easy to set up parental restrictions. He uses it for Youtube, games, ebooks and taking photos. We are a Samsung family so selecting this tablet was a no brainer. Have NEVER been disappointed with a Samsung product
4|I love the screen resolution n the price was the best
3|Samsung tab is good, but battery is poor. It takes a very long time to charge.
4|This was purchased with the sole purpose of testing implied apps. In that regard the Tab 4 7.0 8GB was adequate and performed well. The OS itself is a bit buggy, but that cannot be helped nor escaped. The screen performance is a little sluggish, as is the responsiveness of the OS when launching apps. Otherwise the device performs well. This would actually make an excellent device for a young child or early teen who is learning to create apps, newly exploring the online world, or as an "eduinfotainment" device. The processor, memory and storage limitations prevent it from really serving as much more.
4|I like this tablet I use it on a daily basis for surfing the web and things like that and for schoolwork I wish it came with the stylus and I wish I had better front and back cameras
4|This was a great gift, nice beginner tablet for friend's son.
4|wish I could have gotten the 16mb one when I bought this one (they didn't have any in store at the time). I do have a 32G sim card in it though. I love the size of it much better than my 10.1 note.
5|Excellent buy, staff on store were very helpful on finding what I was looking for, very happy with my experience.
5|I started with the Tab 2 then upgraded from the Tab 3 and currently to the Tab 4. I think this is a great product. It is a perfect size and does all that a tablet should do. I use it to check my mail and facebook and to read and watch movies. It is simple to add books and movies. The screen is excellent.
5|This Davies is very good for school work and personal us.
5|I went from a Kindle Fire to this tablet and could not be happier. It is so much faster and there are not as many restrictions than with the Kindle.
4|If you're looking for a start up tablet this is a great value.
5|had a larger version and it was clumsy. this ones much easier to handle
4|Good tablet to buy for kids if you want to save money and not have to shell out for an Ipad. Does everything that it needs to do with no major flaws. Not close to an Ipad but like I said for the money it's ok for kids.
5|Tablet works excellent,touch screen very sensitive ,pixel display good,speed good, size manipulable, starts almost immediately ,color display very good
5|It is a good value i have a samsung phone and it is like using the using the phone
5|I bought this for my daughter and she absolutely loves it!!! Its very easy for her to operate
4|It's so easy to use, it's like having a mini computer with me all the time. I love the design, the ease of having it all at my fingertips plus it's easy to use.
5|We bought this for our 3 year old son and it's amazing to watch him use it. Very nice picture quality.
5|Purchased for a trip for pictures and it was great! Picture quality very good, loved how it indicates where the pictures were taken.
5|I purchased this tablet for my mom. She loves it. We have not had any problems or issues with the tablet. It works great.
4|Overall a nice tablet, I like it because it operates the same as my phone.
5|I own a Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 7.0 and purchased the Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 to replace my wife's old HKC tablet. It's great to see that Samsung's brought some of the features found on their Galaxy Note tablets to the Galaxy Tab line. The Quad-Core processor with ample memory definitely make it a great tablet to use, and the ability to multitask across a split screen is great. If you're looking to invest in a new tablet, the Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 is definitely worth a look. They certainly blow anything that other company with a piece of fruit on their products out of the water, and cost a whole lot less.
5|This is a great tablet for both children and adults.
5|Great tablet, like the size. Not heavy and powerful. I'm lhappy with purchase.
4|Simple and some words nice item ! Perfect size ! :)
5|I bought this tablet for my daughter to replace her aging first edition kindle fire. There wasn't enough memory space on her kindle, and nowadays, everyone wants to put apps on their electronics in addition to books. I had already previously purchased a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 8-inch for myself and I loved it! What's great about these tablets is the expandable memory. The battery lasts a good amount of time too. The screen size is a good size without being overwhelming or heavy, making the tablet easy to carry around. We took our tablets on tablets on a trip recently, and the battery did great!
4|I wish it had a spell checker that worked with a Bluetooth keyboard. Other than that it is pretty handy and surprisingly tough. All the free apps that come with it when you buy it are pretty awesome.
4|Really like it and haven't had any problem with it.
5|The tablet is great. It's big and bright. Haven't had any problems with it at all.
5|This is an excellent buy. I would recommended this.
4|Purchased this Samsung tablet several weeks ago. I really like the fact that you can take it places that have wifi and use it. I can carry it in my purse almost anywhere and get on the net. Always have my e-mail and Facebook within reach.
4|The size of the tablet makes it convenient to take with you. The tablet is worth the price.
5|Got this when eReader died &amp;amp; I love it. Light weight, easy to operate, quick processing speed. Since my cellphone is a Samsung also set up was veryour easy via the synchronization process
5|Bought this tablet for my grandfather who isn't computer savvy and he loves it. Very easy to use
5|This is a very good tablet. It has great clarity and takes very good pictures. The size is great compared to my 10.1.
5|Best equipment I bought for my kids .kids love it.
5|I like my new Samsung Galaxy Tab. I was able to put my Nook books on and I can check my e-mail, Facebook, weather, play games etc on a bigger screen than just doing them on a cell phone. It is lightweight and that is a plus for taking it along with me some times.
5|Definitely the best response ever from my son on his birthday. We are a Samsung family and this latest addition didn't let us down at all. Best tablet out there in my humble opinion.
5|Bought this tablet for my daughter and she loves it! It's the right size for a 9 year old. It was very easy to setup and the screen is really bright and clear.
5|Can't beat the price for this tablet. Samsung makes great products
5|This tablet is pretty awesome! Great for movies and games! Also great for paying bills!! Love it!
5|A good tablet does everything we expect it to do love it
5|Got to have for grand kids to use. Small enough for little hands. Clear screen. Works great.
5|This tablet is an early shopping christmas gift, and I plan to buy 1 more. I did take the time to fully set it up and had no problems connecting to wifi or google app store to download games and google books. Pros: great buy (added bonus: insuance coverage added within 15days covering the tablet) Cons: none
2|I found the Android O/S to not be very user friendly and I wasn't able to load the app I wanted without having to jump through a lot of hoops. I returned the product and purchased an Amazon Fire instead.
5|Bought for son and us easy to learn. Would recommend for is our fourth Samsung purchase in last two years
5|This tablet is perfect for a kid that is too old for the younger version of tablets and too young for the more advanced expensive tablets.
5|Easy to use. Compact and easy to take along to class. Felt this was the best value and had the most capability for the money.
5|Between using a computer at work and also at home I haven't had as much time as I would've liked to use my tablet. I have found it easy to find my way around the apps and I'm also am using it to check sports scores for my favorite teams and other interesting news items as well.
5|I love that this is like a big cell phone with the ease of use. I can drag and drop everything into different screens just like I do on my cell phone. This is the most user friendly tablet I've owned! No instruction manual was needed. If you can use a cell phone, you can navigate this tablet! I love the camera feature, a little bulky for a camera, but it's still fun.
4|Good tablet, reasonable price, light, fast start, shut down
5|awesome features a two camera and you talk to it and add many features and more
5|I upgraded from a galaxy tab 2.This device made it easy to gather my old apps.
5|I've purchased a couple tablets now and found this one to be a lot better than previous purchases. The Nobis one I had broke multiple times due to screen freezes and I had to send it back twice to Manufacturer at my expense to have it reset. So far no problems with my new Samsung unit.
5|I use my tablet for many things while I'm away!!!!
5|this tablet is great for my granddaughter .I play on it also Great tablet
4|I like the ease of use. Size is good. It is very difficult to attach the power cord. My husband already broke his tablet.
5|Our family are fans of most things Samsung. After my wife got a Galaxy Tab S, I decided I wanted a tablet of my own. I decided on the Tab 4, and couldn't be happier. It runs smoothly and I love it.
5|I bought this tablet as a birthday gift for my one of grand daughters and she loved it. I haven't heard any complains. This is not the first samsung tablet I have bought, they're all been great. And all my grand kids love them.
5|Very good product with great quality. Very good pictures and very clear when watching anything. I love it. Very easy to carry around too.
4|Perfect size so is easy to handle and also is big enough for users to read with minimum problem, good resolution and fun to operate it.
5|Kids had one to share. Loved so much we got another. Easy to use, great dize
5|My tab is great and it means all of my needs from games to programs
5|just love the Samsung products,have had Samsung strive and the Samsung galaxy tab 3 lite, now Samsung 4
5|Perfect screen size for me and fits well in my bag. It is a beauty and works well streaming video and all the apps. Strangely the charger/cable is white with a black tablet--I do not like that. Also, the brand name appears too big on the front. It would be nice if it was smaller or just "laser cut". I would love to see it in some fancy colors.
5|The tablet works great can run many apps at one time. Clearness and response of the screen is wonderful.
4|I could ask my son -- I think he would say he LOVES it! It's a good bargaining thing for us. He keeps asking for more "presents" on the screen (meaning I obtained more apps for him). I need to read up more on the kids mode. I was going to get him a Nubi or whatever it is, but thought my husband and I should be able to use the thing when he's not using it. We love that we can use it or he can use it in kids' mode. All this being said, I wish we would have spent more and got the Ipad -- only because that's what I'm used to using and I already had apps on it which could have synced on the new tablet for him. Oh, well, live and learn. I'm sure we'll get used to this too. Nice size for little kids' hands.
5|This was money well spent, my daughter loves it!!!
5|I brought couple of tab's for my two niece's. They absolutely love it...
4|Work good for an entry level tablet. Feel great in the hand.
5|The mini tablet is light weight and fits easily in a purse.
5|I'm a big fan of Samsung products and they do not disappoint. Well constructed and fun to use.
5|These work just fine for my kids. I love the kids mode. Excellent for little people.
5|Awesome product well put together perfect for school
4|Great point of sale system, the android platform and 7 inch HD screen. Makes for a great hand held system. The 8 gb of stock memory is on the low side, the ability to add a 32 gb micro sd card increases the practicality of the tablet.
4|I love the weight and the dimensions and the price is very good!
4|great product my son loves it! My dad got it for his 9th birthday and he now has his own where he can play his games.
5|LOVE MY TABLET. ITS NOT TO BIG OR TO SMALL. USE IT ALLT HE TIME
5|This tablet is a great option for those looking for a budget tablet. The screen is crisp and it has a great selection of apps on the Google play store
5|I love this thing! I really enjoy the multiple profiles that it allows me to have with the online games that I play on a regular basis.
4|Purchased this tablet for my mission trip .I wanted something that was light and easy to use . Samsung did awesome with this product. Great battery life!
4|Purchased for an employee instead of a laptop for convenient access to our network and email. Works fine for that purpose at a fraction of the cost of a laptop.
5|Great product, it was recommended to me by my friend. Im glad I bought it
5|We got this tablet just for entertainment use. We were checking the options and based on price, and quality of the choices this was hands-down the best choice. Easy to use, looks and feels good. Better than competition and $200 cheaper than iPad mini...
4|easy to work and move around on. This product is very economic
5|My only complaint is there were no instructions on how to utilize all features of this product.
5|This tablet works very well and I have not had any problems with it
5|This product works well for the purpose I bought it for, It's Samsung what else can I say!
5|I have no problems with this device it is awesome!
5|easy to set up and use. only having minor issues saving to the SD card.
3|I'm not a huge fan of Android but Samsung makes a quality product. This tablet isn't the speediest, but it's fine for surfung the Internet and email. It's lighweight and a nice convenient size.
4|Good enough. Easy to use and lightweight. My kids love It.
4|A good table for my service men to work with for my Business.
5|This was great for my son. It's his first tablet and for a beginner it is easy to use and budget friendly too!
5|Great screen, beautiful picture. Very light and thin. The size is perfectly portable without giving up functions. It's great for a student. I take it everywhere! I also love android.
4|I like the screen on the tablet. The color is vibrant for video and movies.
5|Great Tablet; Good form factor; Reliable; Recommended!
4|Great tablet for its price. Can do everything bigger tablet can do
5|I love this product because it is small enough to carry with me but still I am able to read it without straining my eyes.
4|Not a lot of memory, but being able to use external storage takes care of that.
5|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 fit my budget and needs perfectly. I was looking to replace my nook reader with another nook reader and I knew in the near future I was going to need a laptop for occasional travels for work. After speaking with an electronic tech, I decided to go with the Tab 4. I chose the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, 7" to keep it scaled down and less bulky to travel with. I also purchased 2 cases; one for just the tablet that allowed me to 360º rotate it and keep it secured in a hands free angled position and another case that came with a bluetooth, detachable keyboard ($39) which will turn it into a mini laptop for my occasional on the road travels. The cases I found on the internet at another site. The Tablet came with a program that allows me to work with my MS Office; Excel and Word files for work. I've used it and it works great! Because I bought the 7" model I wouldn't want to use it frequently because it's scaled down and I miss a mouse but it does the job perfectly for my occasional needs. I can also get some fun brain games, do e-mail, it links up to my calendar, watch Netflix, listen to my music and much more. It's a neat cross between my PC and my smart phone.
5|I bought the Samsung Galaxy tablet 4 7.0. It has an excellent picture and is a great device at an excellent price. I am very happy with it and highly recommend it.
5|Great for a small lightweight tablet. Very fast and nice screen.
4|New to using a tablet so the small screen is hard to get used to . Everything works well and is easy to use. Great colors on the screen and battery life is fine so far. Only thing would have done different is got the larger model, however this one is nice for road trips!
4|this is nice that it works like my phone that way i did not have to work with it for several hours to figure out how to work it in the brief!
5|The tablet is easy to navigate and has great speed
5|It is the perfect size. Bigger than a smartphone but smaller than a bulky Ipad.
5|This is an amazing product. A hundred times better than the last one that I had from a different retailer. And the tech support is amazing. If you don't do too much with your tablet and just surf the web and read Ebooks, tho one is perfect for you!
4|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is an excellent Droid tablet. Very User Friendly.
5|Best tablet out there! Great for beginners and seasoned users!
4|Being a beginner, I do have alot to learn about the different icons. Is a great price for the product.
5|Great and easy to use good size good on price compatability with Samsung phone for future phone upgrade
4|I would give it a B+ for the overall size features that it comes with.
5|The tablet was purchased as a gift for my father who is in his 70's. I did the initial set up, but once I showed him how to use it, it works great. He's able to check emails, skype, and use the internet without any real problems. The camera is pretty good quality for Skyping, but I was expecting a little bit clearer picture. I would recommend a cover also that can also be used as a stand though to make viewing angles more comfortable.
3|I needed something lighter weight to travel with. This was on sale so I got it. If I were to get another one I would pick one with a faster processor, but it has done what I needed it to do.
5|I'm not big on android. I love my Apple stuff. This is a sweet piece of electronics. I bought it for a friend and ended up using it all of the time until I have it to her.
5|Its a good device, no problems, easy to use, crystal clear, starts up fast when shut down, also like the Samsung startup screen. It could be a little slow when charging but has a good amount of hours uncharged.
4|Great tablet ! Does everything I need it to. Fast, and great quality.
5|I had the nook and of course the nook is being discontinued. I got the Galaxy tab 4 to read ebooks on and I wouldnt trade it for the world. Just wish there were more cases for it..
4|I had an HP Slate which I really loved...and it took much better pictures....however it was sent back to the factory 3 times because of a manufacturing fault with the charging port. This Galaxy has been a welcome replacement except for photos. I am hoping it will be good for travel. I also recently purchased a Galaxy Smart phone and love the way they sync!
5|This device is a true joy. How quickly it becomes, a true extension, of your being is quite interesting. What I like most is that it is easy to use, (surprisingly so) Very intuitive Compact Great battery life Oh, okay, I do have a quick "Debbie Downer moment", the built-in volume protection thingy, I can do without, if I want to blast my music until my ears fall off, I think that should be up to me, (sorry programmers, you can't satisfy all of us crazy people). Other than that, it is portable heaven.
5|A high quality tablet for the money. No problems with it at all as far as its operation. As a new Android user it has taken me some time to adjust, but it's not that hard.
5|Enjoy using it. It travels easily in a purse. The screen is to see for us retires.
4|Overall a good product, but I keep covering the speakers with my hands, and I keep accidentally pressing the back button. I wish they would of put them on the bottom and not the side, or they could have them a physical buttons as well as the home button. Cameras are in low resolution, i wish they would put a good cameras in the tabs.
5|Bought this for my wife and she loves it. She primarily uses it for emails, social media and reading as well as the occasional app. It was easy to set up an get started. If you get the 8G I recommend getting an SD card if you have a lot of books or music.
5|This is one of the best purchases I have made. The battery life is even great. I can easily access work, school or movies for baby.
4|Affordable tablet that is comparable to an iPad. I almost prefer it over my iPad mini. Bought it for my sister and she loves it.
4|Love the samsung perks i got after buying this tab. Great tab easy to use.
5|Very comparable to some of the more expensive tablets. Size is great. Lightweight. Feature filled. Fast. Good screen resolution.
5|Nice to have this product it is amazing and keeps your tab looking great
5|Much faster than dual core, ease of use, other features are standard with good photo quality and video clips, and good amount of applications.
5|Its a great tool for email , fb , pictures ! Love the quality of the screen displays !
5|Great screen resolution. Excellent battery life. The App Store has tons of choices.
5|I like to play games and don't always want to be away from the rest of the family. It offers me mapping and directions which I do need at times for work, although it is not for work use. I wish that it would stay charged for a longer period of time. I have not used the camera as of yet. All in all I am very glad that I purchased it.
5|This is 300% better than the Tab 2. KitKat purrs, and the batt lasts 60% longer. Happy.
5|Rest of the family has iPads. This Samsung blew us away. Expandable memory. All needed apps. Can't beat it.
5|I prefer using a tablet over a computer. The screen is bigger than my phone so I prefer to network with the tablet. The cameras work well also.
5|Love the screen size and weight of the product. Great for everyday use.
5|Product quality and all expectations were meet no issues
5|I really enjoy this tablet, it had a reasonable price and I absolutely love the option to add space with additional memory cards.
4|Just loving the screen size to watch my videos....
5|Very good product and worth the money .i like that it is family friendly and my kid enjoy it as well.
4|Takes a little to learn to use if not used to systems
5|Love this tablet! It is compact yet big enough that you don't feel like you are working on a phone. This is actually the second Samsung Tab4 tablet that we have purchased. I got one for myself and loved it so much that I convinced my husband he needed one....and he did and he is always using it now.
4|Very nice, works well, could use op manual to help us older users.
4|This is a great tablet for its ease of use. The battery life when the screen is off is fantastic. I can let it go a week on a charge if I'm not using it a lot, and it lasts me a couple days easy when I do use it. Access to Google Play makes getting the perfect apps easy. Great size and lightweight. I carry it everywhere.
4|daughter enjoys using it for reading, homework, games and music.
5|I bought this for my 9 year old, reasonably priced. He dropped it without a case and it didn't break. He has had no problem with it. This is a good alternative to the iPad.
5|Small, perfect to carry on, actually your are taking all your e-mails, pictures, documents you name it with you.
5|After having an Insignia for 8 months, an ACER Iconia for a day, for Samsung Tab4 so far so good! Speed is great and for minimal user like me, only emails, skype, a couple of games &amp;amp; net bowsing, I only recharge every 3 days! This is always on receiving mails &amp;amp; messages, surfing between 30min to 2 hrs per day,have only restarted 3 times, last one an auto update from samsung app. clear screen &amp;amp; easy to change between app. Totally satisfied!
5|We would looked at quite few tablets and she was set on a Kindle Fire HDX. When we spoke to the salesman we asked him what would be the pros and cons for each tablet. We paid a little more and went with this one in the end. She really likes it.
3|Bought for the wife and she is pleased with it, but could be a lot better product with a decent how to booklet included.
4|Easy to use. Great look. Samsung is definitely at the top of technology when it comes to price.
4|Its overall a good product for the average user!!!
5|Lightweight, durable, ability to extend memory, great for traveling or while on break at work. Also love that it links to my Galaxy phone! For the price I feel it does more than I expected. It lives up to the Samsung Galaxy line of products that have came out throughout the years.
5|I like using thus for school and getting on line when I don't have to bring my laptop
4|Purchased the tablet for my mother's birthday and she has thoroughly enjoyed it. She was amazed on easy it was to skype and the great picture resolution she got. She also spends a lot of time playing games and reading her on-line books. Portable access to her emails is also a convenient feature she appreciates.
5|I bought this for my 16yo son to take on a trip to visit family and he loves it. Easy to use, although we had to buy more storage space for him to download his games and movies. But I think it's a good value for the money.
4|Works well. Easy to use. good price for the purchase
5|LOVE IT, I TAKE IT TO WORK AND TO THE GYM. I NEVER MISS ANY OF MY MUST SEE SHOWS. VERY HAPPY THAT I MADE THIS PURCHASE. I MAY PURCHASE ANOTHER ONE FOR CHRISTMAS IF SOMEONE IS NICE AND NOT NAUGHT AROUND THE HOLIDAYS. I THINK THEY WILL BE AS HAPPY AS I HAVE BEEN WITH IT.
5|Bought as a gift for a 8 year old. He loves this tablet and it seems to keep him interested in learning.
5|My mom loves it and uses it for facebook, whatsapp, games and email!
4|After trading in our vehicle that had an entertainment system in it, for a similar vehicle WITHOUT entertainment system, we knew that our 2 young boys (6 &amp;amp; 3) would need something to be entertained on the frequent long trips (5+ hours) we take. It was going to cost nearly $800 for the system we were considering installing in our vehicle, so as an alternate option, we purchased 2 tablets. Not only would it serve as entertainment for them in the vehicle, but the devices could be used by my husband and I if we so chose to bring them on travel. This way, also, they can each watch separate movies that are downloaded (with headphones attached, of course, so I don't lose my sanity). If they so chose to play a game, I've downloaded several free apps, most of which I've chosen to be educational. The product works perfect for us. The only downfall is that the battery does need to be charged after several hours.
5|It was great. I will really love it work and enjoy movies at home with a tablet that is portable enough for your commute and powerful enough to keep up with your busy schedule. The quad-core processor provides quick performance that your entire family will enjoy. You must en
5|I purchase for granddaughter to use during reading at school.
5|Prices for this needs to come down with the introduction of the new I phone.
5|This tablet is wonderful, it takes great photos and it moves fast.
4|The Samsung Tablet was a great buy for me. I didn't want a larger sized tablet, so this 7inch tablet is great. It's comfortable to hold.
5|I bought this for my wife and she absolutely loves it!
4|I loved this product for its features and built in apps
4|This is a good value for a low end tablet. If you are into finding all the best apps, I would go with Apple tablets and pay the extra price for a better and simpler app store.
3|good 1st time using, these things need handles though
4|The Tab is by far the most useful tablet I've bought. Since I bought it, I've had no need to use my laptop.
4|i like the light weight; easy to carry for travelling.
3|It's no special than any other tablet in its price class. One thing that could be improved on is the placement of the buttons. Always hitting them on accident
5|Great product worth it's price. Very much satisfied
5|I love my tablet so much, I went out and purchased a Samsung telephone.
5|I love the quality of the pictures and the size is perfect for taking with me everywhere, I use this for my business and it's great that it's compact.
5|Bought this to replace old Nook Color -- the screen and battery life far surpass the Nook Color.
3|I am able to read on it well. It just doesn't load Internet very fast.
4|Nice compact size. Easy to use and good picture quality.
5|This is my second galaxy tablet. It is very easy to use. I love it!
5|The battery life is amazing... My daughter uses it for Netflix and it works great!!!!
5|It's a very good tablet for kids so they can get entertained in school assingments.
5|I love this tablet it is great and pretty. I definitely high recommend it for everyone, I bought this for my son and you can download the app and turn it into kids mode and don't have to worry about anything.
5|It takes a while to figure this out if you haven't used a tablet before and it is definitely worth reading all the instructions/tutorials. Once you've done that you will absolutely love it
4|Keeps my daughter and Son entertained with apps that help them learn easy to navigate.
5|I bought this as a gift for my son. He loves it. So far no problems with it.
5|great device for wifi access to android apps. great screen
4|I purchased the device for my son and he really likes it. Faster then the old models and the OS is much more flexible then in the past.
4|Belongs to my 8 year old and he's having a great time playing games. Used it on a few trips over the summer. Good quality for the price.
4|I love this tablet however only clocked at 1.2 ghz which is poor
4|Awesome bought 4 of this great pricibg great speed
3|I want a Samsung tab because it wasn't an apple product. Well I got what I wanted a good looking tablet that has a horrible touch screen. It can't ever figure where I touch. Reminds me of my Samsung S4 which is why I have a iPhone 5s. Great battery and screen for movies but games not so much.
4|This tablet has many a nice feature like that is blaster built in to the side. I was able to use it as a remote for every TV in my house. It can also connect to smart TVs connected to a wireless router which I thought it was a neat feature. It has the S voice feature which can be useful. I personally found no use in the kid mode but my friend says that he set a password and that it must be entered to exit kid mode which I see to be useful for people with children. Once I signed up on Samsung's and registered my tablet I received an email about some free perks for purchasing it. I like that the tablet has a built in task killer which helps to free up the RAM even though it is hard to use it all up with normal use. I use my Tablet throughout the entire day and I would say that it has the longest battery out of any tablet I have ever seen.
4|Would recomend this tablet to all my friends does the same thing as an ipad but at a lower price
4|Camera takes great pictures. Easy to use. Has great battery life. Screen size is great.VERY AFFORDABLE.
5|I love it my baby loves his tablet we have no complaints
5|Great tablet for a beginner. Going to buy bigger 1
4|I use it for business transactions. Saves space for not carrying around a laptop.
5|This is a great little tablet and quite affordable. Very, very happy with my choice.
4|It is a great product and I have fully enjoyed my product.
5|Compared to my Kindle fire it is awesome not that my Kindle fire wasn't great
5|I like the compact size that fits in my bag, always have books and entertainment wherever I go. Easy to work with great android apps.
5|We have found that our Galaxy Tab 4 has plenty of room for all the activities that we want, even when sharing it. The WiFi is a cinch to set up, and battery life has been good. If you are used to surfing on a smart phone you will really enjoy the screen size too.
5|Great reader for using instead of my broken kindle.
5|Super tablet for the price. I love it.Easy to operate
2|I wanted something that would work on the games I play. I returned it and purchased a 2 in 1.
4|While it's not my iPad, great work tool for me to bounce around the shop. ANDROID JELLYBEAN WILL NOT LET YOU SAVE ANYTHING REALLY TO THE SD CARD. SLOT IS WORTHLESS TO ME. While not really Samsung's issue, it is on their device and if I'd know before hand, I could have gotten a used iPad and done the same things with it.
5|I like the product. Screen quality is excellent and is easy to use. I use primarily for taking pics and they always come out very vivid and clear.
2|With this product being one of the newest out &amp;amp; a Samsung Galaxy at that I believed by paying more, I would get a better product... has been a pain in the butt! Very slow processing info &amp;amp; battery has to be charged daily even with minimal usage
5|Love my tablet! Don't have to get out my computer every time I need to do something.
5|I bought this tablet for my 14-year old to replace his Kindle. I have a Samsung phone, and love it, and wanted to get him a Samsung. He loved his Kindle, but I knew that he could get more features and have more freedom with a Samsung tablet using Google. One of the reasons I wanted him to get away from the Kindle is that now he can download eBooks from the library for free, whereas before the library books available for Kindles were limited and he was spending quite a lot money buying eBooks from Amazon. With the Samsung (and Google) tablet, he has a lot more apps to choose from and isn't tied to Amazon. He was hesitant at first, but then fell in love with it and wouldn't even look at the Kindle's in the store.
4|Everything is great with the Galaxy Tab 4, It's easy to use and lots of downloads for kids. In kids mode I do not care for the kids store too much, but using google play works just fine. One issue we can not figure out how to put the netflix on kids mode, so he can not watch netflix on the tab because I am not taking it out of kids mode just for netflix. Sometimes it is a little slow to touch response. We bought it just for my son to use because the nabis screen kept breaking, so we ordered a case off amazon for the galaxy seems how there is not protective case in stores yet.
5|I buy this product for my sister, high school student, its great, he love it, he use it to creat docs, and is awesome.
4|this is a very good quality product from Samsung, the ability to add memory is a welcome feature as it is extremely cheap to go from 8gb to 72gb. The only bit of downside is the operating system. Some of the apps are not easy to use as Apples IOS but for savings of over $400, i'll overlook some shortcomings.
5|Great tablet, went for an Apple, just as happy with Samsung.
4|I really liked this tablet. It's great for surfing the Web and playing games. The price is nice too.
5|All around winner in price, power, and ease of use.
5|I love it. My son can get to apps easily and the price was great.
4|Nice bright screen, easy to navigate, small enough
5|This is a great tablet for me..a beginner..small enough to carry around and big enough to type easily on..
4|Love the tablet but there is a long learning curve
4|I'm a med student who needed a tablet to use during my rotations that was small enough to fit in my pocket..
4|Great little tablet for viewing videos and photos.
4|Nice nice item reliable. Take ir everywhere . Pretty good purchase.
5|This was a birthday present for my 89 year old Grandmother. She now gets her emails, Facebook, and she Skypes with friends and family. It has been a wonderful tool to keep her mind active and she doesn't read paper books anymore. it truly is a cool item for her and there is not a smidgen of buyers remorse.
5|Bought for my daughter, she loves it. Plays games, does homework, uses like a laptop.
5|I bought this for my son and the whole family loves using it. It compliments our galaxy phones.
4|Is perfect , easy to set up very good price and size
4|This has been an easy product to get used to. It's easy to get to my favorite apps.
5|Great for reading, doesn't take good pictures but I strictly purchased this item for reading. The WIFI is great and you can read, surf the Web and do most anything that you could if this item was a I pad or a computer.
4|great product!!!!! love all my Samsung products...
5|Makes my life easier, by putting everything I need in one easily transportable piece of electronic equipment.
4|Great tablet for a first timer price was great also
4|Its a good product, just need to improve camera, like a more functions...
5|This is a very nice and light tablet that packed in enough power for daily use.
4|Functions like any other Samsung phone or tablet except with out the phone feature.
4|I bought this for my wife, she really liked the size. I wanted her to get the 8.0 since it had 16GB, however she REALLY liked the size of this one. It has been perfect for what she uses it for. Some light surfing, and a few apps. Good speed, not real fast but not bad. My only wish is it had 16GB. We have not put the SD in yet, but I'm sure will soon.
5|The Galaxy Tab is great. I have a Galaxy cell phone so using the Tab was very easy. The battery stays charged a long time. I am very happy with my purchase.
5|For a little more money I opted for Samsung, and I feel it was well worth it.
5|I love my galaxy tab4 so much I always wanted it in my hands. So I just bought a galaxy s5.
5|Bought the Tab4 to replace a Tab3 that was stolen. Like it a lot. Very responsive. Does get a bit heavy while reading if left in the protective case but not a huge issue. Would definitely recommend the tablet.
5|Works great for viewing emails, websites and watching movies. Perfect size to take on the go
5|I really enjoy using this tablet. I use it for watching movies, playing games, and for learning programs for my son. The only problem is that the power button was overly sensitive so if you tap it accidentally when rotating the device, it shuts off. Other than that we love it!
5|I bought this for internet, gaming and videos. It is an outstanding device. I use it every day and in a variety of environments. Staff were helpful in set up as well.
1|Need help with this device don't understand plus it's touch sensitive
4|This tablet make a very great gift for my daughter for school and for fun
5|I bought two of these tablets for my little ones to use. This purchase will make 4 Samsung tablets for our family. My wife has the Tab 2 seven inch and I have the Tab Pro 8.4. We have had nothing but reliable service from all Samsung products, so getting these for my kids was a no brainer. I really like the kids mode on these newest versions. I can set up whatever boundaries I want and not have to worry about my little ones getting into things they shouldn't while using their technology. Overall these are just great tablets.
5|This is very cheap and useful tablet for everyday use.I will recommend it for basic email check, browsing, pdf reading and etc. Not for advanced gaming or data processing.
4|Simply adjust the settings to your liking and you're on your way to a very enjoyable tablet experience.
5|awesome buy. the tablet really is a great tool for everyday use.
5|this is a major improvement over the tab 2. It is much faster to boot up and to load apps.
4|My needs &amp;amp; expectations are modest so I was easily pleased.
5|Great product for price and capabilities - I use mostly to read and quick look at items when I dont want to use my bigger tablet...great on the plane!!!
5|Love the tablet. Was not in the market for one, but got it in a bundle with some Samsung wireless speakers. Fun toy to have around the house. Plan on making it a useful portable work tool. Just like using an Android phone (I have an old Galaxy S3). The speed is very good. Could be faster, but at this price it is hard to beat.
5|I would by this model again. For someone who is tech illiterate it is easy to use
5|Thrilled with purchase. Does everything that I wanted it to do. Easy to navigate. Great compact size.
5|The display has great clarity. Easy to use and set up for first time users or young adolescents. If you like Android products, this is a great small sized tablet.
5|Bought this as a birthday gift for my wife. It had just come out a few weeks prior and I couldn't believe how affordable it was for being so new. Works great if you are already deep into google play. Returned my kindle fire shortly after purchasing this galaxy tab, far superior tablet for sure
5|I bought this as a second tablet to keep at my weekend home. I had previously purchaed the 8 inch for home use. Loved it so much bought the smaller one for "weekend use". Both are great, I like the smaller size to hold, but miss the larger screen so its a trade off. But very happy with performance so far.
5|It's the first tablet I have ever used, so I don't have anything to compare it to. I think the 10 inch screen would be better, but I can enlarge the font so I can read it, though then I have to scroll back and forth. It's much easier to cart around, the a lap top, but I do find that my boost cell phone does pretty much the same thing the tablet does.
5|I had the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 and left it in a rental car (bomber) so I replaced it with the Galaxy Tab 4. I love it!
5|I bought this tablet to have a 7" device for testing (I work in software). So it's on a pile of other devices. Most of my devices are Samsung. I love what they release and I love Android. So in general, I DO love the Tab 4 7". It would have become my every day tablet except for two things: 1) I rely a LOT on vibration cues from my devices. I like to keep sound notifications off. This tablet does NOT vibrate. So my main day to day tablet will stay the 10" Samsung Note (2012 edition). 2) The size is not far off from my giant Galaxy Note 3 phone. So the 10" is probably a better tablet for my needs. However, I plan to get my Mom a Tab 3 or Tab 4 because I feel strongly that they are the best. Easiest to use. Great battery life. Wonderful screen. I just got a Kindle Fire HD as a testing device, and like the Samsung tablets way more. You don't need a Kindle device since there is an Amazon app for Kindle books. If the vibration isn't important to you, then this tablet is PERFECT for 2014 technology. If it's important to you, then consider the 10" Samsung Note.
4|Great tablet I was a little leery at first had used nephew's galaxy tab 3 didn't like it had trouble with some apps and it felt a little off compared to other tablets I had used. But I was amazed with galaxy tab 4 loved the ability to have more than one app up on screen at a time, l really think the way it stops playing videos when you are not looking at it is so cool. My only complaint is with the kit Kat it won't allow me to run some of my favorite older apps but otherwise I'm very happy with it.
5|Love size lots free apps easy set up battery good 2 screen are terrific love it fits in my purse don't weight heavy
5|The clarity of the screen is phenomenal. Lots of applications come ready to use with product.
4|needs to come with a free good cleaning app, and app cleaner when not used with in 10 days
5|very easy to use. takes great pictures. installed 32GB SD card.
5|We brought this tablet for my father-in-law who is in his 80s. The tablet was easy for him to learn and use quickly. The navigation between screens is quick and easy. The tablet also downloads apps especially games very quickly.
1|Samsung includes Hancom which is supposed to be an office app, but it isn't as good as others and has unrestricted access to everything on the device (network, keystrokes, accounts, PWs, location, surfing history, etc.) and it can't be uninstalled or turned off. It's spyware. Buy a different device that doesn't do this.
5|Though the Galaxy Tab 4 is fantastic overall it is not as intuitive to get into the settings as pre-KitKat devices. I bought this for my daughter who absolutely loves it. I have a Galaxy Tab 3 8.0 and found it easier to get into the settings.
4|It's a nice small tablet for the money; easy to carry around and use.
5|I was a bit hesitant to get a tablet not being sure I would be able to make the transition easily, but I was wrong. Very easy, very convenient, just love it
5|I've only used this tablet for a few weeks. I used to have an iPad but didn't feel like spending the $800 to get another. Picked this up for $200 and couldn't be happier.
4|Takes great pictures and I can watch mlb.tv on it. I havent spent as much time as I'd like checking out all of the features yet. Downside to it is limited selection of accessories due to product being so new.
5|Bought this to replace the now discontinued Galaxy Player 5. I can fit it in most of my pockets when not using it. I wish Samsung would have made a smaller tablet but love the new features. This Tablet is very fast with Kit Kat
5|My sister and I got this for my mom for Mother's Day. She loves it and uses it everyday, great buy!
4|This is our first tablet and overall it's pretty nice. We like the android set up, as it's the same as our phones. It's plenty quick when watching Netflix, browsing, music, etc. The camera can be a little flaky at times, but that may just be Skype itself. We also love the external sd slot for expandable memory. Overall, we are very pleased.
4|Is a great tablet and is very easy to use and understand
5|Just love it have e-mail and read and make notes surf and lay games everything in one.Easy to use keeps a charge pretty long and screen is great.
4|I am NOT a fan of Samsung products. I have had miserable luck with them in the past, but my fiancée has been enjoying it (it was a Mother's Day present)! So far, so good!
5|This was a great gift for my wife. She reads a lot of books and plays games on it, which makes her happy. She uses it when at home or at appts with the kids.
5|My son originally had the Nabi 2 and had problems with it. So it got replace with the Samsung tab 4 and I can't get him to put it down long enough to charge. He is 6 yrs old and absolutely love it. I'm a Samsung fan and I have the Samsung note 10.1 and note 3 phone and love it also.
5|Good tablet does everything u want it to do very quickly
5|Great product, great price, can not go wrong with Samsung Galaxy.
5|Great quality Samsung tablet, featuring the kit kat operating system. The tab 8 is fast, easy to use and set up. The screen is very nice, featuring great resolution and color. Over all, I would have to say Samsung has created another winner in my book.
5|It is a great tablet. Is good for all the family is fast and has a great image
4|I would recommend this to a friend, easy to use, good graphics and all the apps needed. Nice tablet for traveling.
4|I like the Samsung better than the iPad, because they are much more versatile. You don't have to be connected to the internet to do things and you can upload and download directly from a PC. You can't do that with the iPad or any other Apple products. I would buy this eveytime over the iPad or iPhone.
5|I bought it for a trip I took recently. The wi-fi came in really handy. The free wi-fi at the airports killed time between flights. Found a language translator app and installed it. I downloaded movies on the sd card and watched them in our room. All in all, it did everything I asked of it.
5|Bought this as a gift for a relative and I know they are very pleased!
5|I like my tablet very compact easy-to-use reasonable price
5|I was very pleased to have to such an easy Tablet for such a low price. I thoroughly enjoy using this Tablet!
4|Still trying to learn what it is capable of. Enjoying learning.
3|Set up is no where as easy as an iPad. The screen is better, apps are about the same.
5|Has all the functions I need like an iPad but more cost efficient. I would really recommend it for someone who wants to use it for games, reading ebooks, and web surfing.
5|This tablet is very easy to use. The screen size is nice and it is very easy to touch with no issues.
4|The product is easy to use even for a beginner to technology. The Samsung representative was extremely helpful in showing me how to set up the product with the apps that I wanted. I have only had the device for a few days, but look forward to learning how to use all of the features that are included in the package. I had also looked at the Nook and the Kindle, but felt that this Samsung had more to offer.
