5|I bought this tablet at my local Target store on the 30th of June and let me say, this is the best tablet I ever had. It's super light and easy to use. The front and back camera are great to take selfies and pictures and it's great for taking videos. The Skype is great as well. I am a teenager myself and I am using it for school and personal stuff. I use the Google Chrome for web browsing and it's really fast. Downloading apps is fast as well as opening and running them. I have downloaded the CM Security from the Google Play Store for free and I run it once a day and it always says it's safe. I also downloaded the CleanMaster app and clean it after I'm done using it and it helps deletes the junk files and makes the device run even faster. A couple of my relatives have both the iPad and the iPad Mini, but when I tried both of them myself, nothing compares to the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. The iPad Mini is a little bigger than this and a little lighter, but from what I experienced, the Samsung is better and it saved me $200-400. The reading is great and I mostly download my books straight from Google Play Books and the Amazon Kindle Store. The Wattpad app (YouTube for E-books) is an awesome app for downloading free books written by teens and tranditional/self-published authors. The keyboard is great when it comes to commenting on the works and also typing my own stories. The battery lasts much longer, too. I had mine at 100% charged and it lasted for about twelve hours of playing time (with the brightness turned to low). I have the Netflix app and I can watch the videos perfectly. It's crystal clear. Listening to music is much more clear and easier when you put some ear buds on. The speaker is on the back of the device. Overall, the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is a perfection! You should buy it!
4|So I have had this tablet for about a week. I bought my first one from Walmart and my girlfriend ended up liking it so much I bought her one off here. Hers hasn't came yet but I figured since hers is the same exact model that I should give a review on this tablet. I find this tablet to be a good buy for the money because first of all its thin and light. Is it as thin as a iPad air? No its not but its thin enough and small enough to where I don't feel this when I carry it around to the store with me or to a friends house. Its about twice as thick as a iPad air 2 but twice as light (at least thats what I think). I also REALLY like how the back isn't some shinny crappy plastic that smudges and scratches really easy. It has a very nice textured back that feels really good to hold in the hand. One thing of many things I don't like about the physical design is that Samsung still uses that fake chrome looking design around the tablet. I wouldn't mind this to much if it didn't chip so easy. On the second day I have had it the chrome looking plastic chipped it bummed me out a little bit because I am very careful with any tablet, phone, laptop and really anything computer like because I understand how easy it is to break them. The other thing that I don't like at all is that for some weird stupid reason Samsung decided to put the only speaker on the back of the device. I don't like this because since it is so small its easy to cover up with your finger or hand and once you do you won't hear a thing. Just because the speaker is small don't mean its not loud. I do like the speaker itself because for such a small thing it is pretty loud you just got to make sure you don't cover it up when you are using your device. I do like the speed overall most apps load quickly and run without a problem. You have to keep in mind that this is a budget friendly tablet so don't expect to play some demanding 3D apps because its not made to replace your Galaxy S2 tablet or your iPad air. Its made to be affordable with decent specs and thats what this has. I have played angry birds, fieldrunners, air hockey, chess, ect. Overall the performance is great with these games. One thing I did notice is that it is a tad slow when it comes to using a browser like chrome or the stock Android browser. What I mean by this is that when I swipe up on my tablet to go down on a web page it takes close to a second to execute the task. Its not bad enough to make me not like the tablet its just annoying sometimes. I do like the screen. Its has a resolution of 1280 by 800 so it won't set the world on fire but its good enough to work for me. Color reproduction is great and the screen is nice and bright I also like how I can look at the screen from different angles without having to deal with polarization. The cameras on here are fine I don't expect much at all when it comes to the camera quality because this tablet is a lower priced tablet. The back camera can record 720p video and the front I believe can record 480p. So video calling should be fine selfie pictures will suffer due to the lack of camera quality. This tablet does not support OTG which was another small bummer but oh well Im glad this tablet has a micro SD card slot which can take up to 64 GB!! Yes I have tried this and it works with no problems. One HUGE plus about this tablet is that battery life is just flat out amazing! I can get around 2 to 3 days of normal use (web browsing, playing some games, watching SOME youtube, going on Facebook) and get a day with heavy use (youtube for hours, gaming for hours). Standby time is really good to if I have the tablet on all day in standby with 100% Id only lose 2 to 3%. I ended up buying a otter box for this tablet for $40.00 today and so far I am really liking the otter box. It don't add a ton of weight and I love knowing that my cool little tablet will be protect from any falls and scrapes. I will do a separate review on the otter box sometime soon. So far I think Samsung is doing a great job with there tablets. I bought the Galaxy Tab A 9.7 inch with the S pen about a month ago and its working wonders its very fast, the screen is bright and I love the screen ratio and size of the screen. I have also reviewed the Galaxy Tab A so if anyone is interested in reading it just click on my profile and then click on reviews by me. But back to the star of the show. I feel like the Galaxy Tab 4 7 inch is a great buy if you want something to play some lite games, to watch youtube, browse the web, check email, read books and really just anything simple. If you are looking for a tablet to game with Id recommend the Galaxy Tab S2 or iPad air 2 both have higher resolution screens, much faster processors and better graphics with a higher price tag. Below I will list the pros and cons about this tablet. Pros 1. Very small and light making it easy to type with 2 hands. 2. Better build quality than the Galaxy Tab 3 7 inch 3. Micro SD card slot can support up to 64 GB (I have tried this) 4. Very good battery life. About 2 days use 5. Good standby time 6. Bright, crisp screen with decent resolution (215 PPI) 7. Speaker is loud for such a small speaker 8. The price is right! LOL Cons 1. Speaker is placed in a stupid location 2. Chrome plastic chips easy 3. Can lag using a browser 4. Cant update to Lolli pop without rooting it
5|Update September 8, 2014: About 6 weeks ago I started having issues charging the Samsung tablet. A red x appeared over the battery symbol and the tablet appeared to be charging but very slowly. This red x means that the tablet is plugged into a computer and exchanging data but in reality it was plugged into the Samsung AC wall charger using their cable. I tried another Micro USB charging cable and it worked fine but not every time. I was worried that the charging port on the tablet was going bad. I take excellent care of my smart devices and I wanted to find out what the issue was. I contacted Samsung support using the on line message support system. It took about an hour to convince Samsung that the cable was bad and perhaps the AC wall charger. They shipped me a new AC wall charger and the cable. I tried only the cable by itself first and it has worked perfectly every time I haved plugged it in for three weeks. I wanted to post this update in case any other user of this tablet is having a similar problem. Good luck with Samsung support as the person I dealt with was stubborn about recognizing that one of their products was defective. --------------------- I own a lot of different tablets but this is my first Samsung and let me say that I am impressed. I went to the store to buy a 7 inch unit but quickly decided to upgrade to the 8 inch version. There were several features that I was concerned about and the 8 inch unit just fit my needs better. * Larger screen size for reading * More basic internal memory at 16 GIG versus 8 GIG for the 7 inch unit * The ability to upgrade to a 64 GIG SD card instead of just 32 GIG - note: It actually will use a 128 GIG SD card. I used a Sandisk Class 10 card at 128 GIG. It is great for storage, books, apps, music and videos. Just remember that in my experience your need for more memory grows as you use your tablet more and if you buy a smaller memory upgrade capability you may regret it. The price difference on launch day was only $40 more. I already own 8 tablets in my family so my experience has proven this need for more memory. As you add more books and more apps the memory slowly gets eaten up. I went ahead and also purchased a Samsung 64 GIG Micro SD memory card and I got a Class 10 Pro series at a cost of $55. It reads at 70 MB/s and a write speed of 20 MB/s. For under $300 you will have a powerful tablet that has more memory (80 GIG) than a 64 GIG iPad Mini for a much lower price. Here is the link to the Samsung Memory that I purchased: Samsung 64GB MicroSD XC Pro Class 10 UHS-1 Read Speed 70mb/s Write Speed 20mb/s MB-MGCGB Ultra Fast Speed Memory Card with SoCal Trade, Inc. Memory Card Reader Some other key features are: * A powerful Qualcomm quad core CPU operating at 1.2 GHZ ( You can see the speed in using the tablet) * 1280 by 800 pixel display * A 3 MP rear facing camera * A 1.3 MP front facing camera * It weighs in at 11 ¼ ounces per my scales * Bluetooth 4.0 * Internal 16 GIG of flash memory and it goes to 80 GIG using a 64 GIG Micro SD card (Use a high quality Class 10 Micro SD card) * 1.5 GIG of internal RAM * A 4450 mAh internal battery pack * Android 4.4 operating system Kit Kat * 1080P playback and recording * A built in IR blaster to control your TV and other infra-red devices and an App called WatchON the help you control your TV and see what is playing on your cable service. * The tablet comes with a 31 inch charging and data cable that is a Micro USB on one end and a USB on the other. * It comes with an AC wall charger that outputs 5 VDC at 1 Amp and it will operate on 100 to 240 VAC and 50/60 HZ. * It features a power multitasking function that lets you see and use two apps simultaneously which is something that an Apple iPad cannot do. Very nice feature! * You can set up multiple users and limit the apps that they can see and use. * You can set up a child friendly and protected user interface. * You get $300 worth of free content I found this tablet to be extremely versatile and very fast. The quad core processor is very impressive and browsing the internet was fast and easy. Adding my Gmail account to the tablet literally took a minute. I put together a video to show you the locations for the controls and what the tablet looks like. It is a bit long and I couldn't even talk about all of the items that I wanted to include. I apologize for the length of the video but I get excited over good technology. Overall the tablet is impressive and it is well worth the money based on the quality and performance that I have seen. I rate it as a 5 star item. You can register your device with Samsung Galaxy Perks and get more free items: * A $10 credit on the Google Play Store * 3 months free of Hulu plus * 1 year free of Boingo WIFI * 50 GIG of free Drop Box cloud storage for 2 years * Sirius 3 months free * 3 free audible books for new members * 3 digital magazines free on Zinio for 2 months * A free Polaris Office Update May 2, 2014: Last night I installed the Amazon AppStore and the Amazon Kindle reading app. I down loaded over 950 books and I was blown away by the speed of the downloads. The CPU and strong WIFI connection really shines with its speed. I was using a strong 2.4 GHz WIFI and I downloaded the speedtest app from Google Play and I could download data at 13.36 Mbps and upload data at 2.09 Mbps. Since I am on ATT Uverse that is a reasonable result. The tablet can use either a 2.4 GHz or a 5 GHz WIFI channel. On the 5GHz frequency I got 17.71 Mbps download and 2.24 Mbps upload. I used the Amazon AppStore as I own over 1000 apps and it was fast and easy to download many of them. I could transfer them to the SD card to conserve my internal memory. I had to do this manually on some of the apps and others went to the SD card automatically. The sound of the speaker is pretty loud for its size. I paired the tablet with a Bluetooth speaker and the process is fast and easy. I use Bluetooth a lot and I was glad to see it work so well and Bluetooth 4.0 is the low power version to help reduce battery consumption. Over three hours of continuous work the battery dropped from 98% to 62% which is pretty good considering I downloaded over 950 books and 35 apps. I love the fact that I can use my Amazon books and apps so easily and still have access to the Google Play Store to download utilities and apps that are not available on Amazon. It is like having the best of both worlds. Photographs are easy to take and edit. I even shot some videos. I wanted to include some in my online video but there was not enough space and time remaining to do so. Using an app called Hangouts I was able to do face to face video calls and text messaging with my wife using our gmail account emails. The quality was as good as Facetime and the connection worked very well. I had to install the app Hangouts on my wife's iPhone 5S and the app is free on iTunes. The app was already installed on my Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. I continue to be impressed with the performance and capability of this tablet. I did want to add that the case is slippery and a little wide to hold so I suggest that you get a case to improve your ability to grip the tablet and hold it.
5|Samsung has done it again. They are releasing tablets at very periodic intervals. Samsung's fourth generation of Galaxy Tab series is as expected and for this price point phenomenal. I have been using Galaxy Tab 2 and 3 and I am very much impressed with Galaxy line of devices. I got to play with all of the three Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 series for few days. I like them that I am getting all three and selling last year’s model. First, if you have not had any tablets before, Get THIS! Yes, Get this 7". It is ideal for plane trips, long journeys. I had used a 7" Tablet on a long journey to listen to songs and read epub books (Aldiko) and it was a very pleasant experience. 7" form factor is lightweight, compact and great. If you are a bit experienced and can afford it, I highly recommend the 8". In my opinion 8" is the maximum value for the money and features, but 7” has the best pixel density of all three Galaxy 4 series. If you are just starting out 7” is great and prices will FALL further as year progresses. Samsung has introduced 7", 8" and 10.1" of the Tab 4 series. This year the space has become crowded as Samsung also has 8.4”, 10.1” and 12.2” Tab Pro Series. They are pricier, but if you can afford I very STRONGLY suggest you get the PRO series just for one thing - RESOLUTION. I was really hoping the Tab series will go to a higher resolution. But again price/performance is a factor that drives Samsung to make devices at all price/performance ranges. Let's start off with salient points of all of the Galaxy Tab 4 series. I will later compare with the previous Tab 3 models. I have also listed brief specs of current leading tablets at the very end if you would like to really compare and shop. There are too many choices out there now in 2014. If you have Tab 3, don’t upgrade. No need to. Those devices worked well a year back and still are. The photos look just as beautiful on them as they did a year ago! Some of Tab 4 specs have certainly become better, but not in a revolutionary sense. The pixels per inch ppi is the best in 7” among all of Galaxy Tab 4 series. That is because all have same resolution and size is the variable. For a first time user, you will be blown away by the feature set now. The tablets have multi user profiles, so each user can customize like a home PC. Look at three specs that really interest you and nail down the tablet you need. Look at the big picture, what you want from a tablet now, a year from now, what your family needs out of this and make a decision. 7-inch Galaxy Tab 4 tablet: 1280x800, 216 ppi, 1.2 GHz Quad-Core, 1.5GB RAM, 8GB built-in storage (ROM), a microSD card slot (up to 32 GB), Camera: 3MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 9.74 oz. (276 grams). Android 4.4.2 8-inch Galaxy Tab 4 tablet: 1280x800, 189 ppi, Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 1.2 GHz Quad-Core, 1.5GB RAM, 16GB built-in storage (ROM), a microSD card slot (up to 64 GB), Camera: 3MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 11.1 oz. (315 grams). Android 4.4.2 10.1-inch Galaxy Tab 4 model: 1280x800, Qualcomm Snapdragon, 149 ppi, 1.2 GHz Quad-Core, 1.5GB RAM, 16GB built-in storage (ROM), a microSD card slot (up to 64 GB), Camera: 3MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 17.3 oz. (490 grams). Android 4.4.2 Look at the salient points of all of the Galaxy Tab 3 series. 7-inch Galaxy Tab 3 tablet: 1024 x 600, Marvell dual-core 1.2GHz processor, 1GB RAM, 8GB built-in storage (ROM), a microSD card slot (up to 64 GB), Camera: 3MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 10.58 oz. (300 grams). Android 4.1.2 8-inch Galaxy Tab 3 model: 1280 x 800, Exynos 1.5GHz dual-core processor, 1.5GB ram, 16GB of built-in storage (ROM), a microSD slot (up to 64 GB), Camera: 5MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 10.9 oz. (309 grams) Android 4.2 10.1-inch Galaxy Tab 3 model: 1280 x 800, Intel Atom 1.6GHz Z2560 dual-core processor, 1GB RAM, a 16GB built-in storage (ROM), a microSD slot (up to 64 GB), Camera: 3.2MP rear-facing, 1.3MP front-facing and weighs 17.99 oz. (510 grams). Android 4.2 I am not going into other details like accelerometer etc. as they are all standard these days, Audio support - AAC, AMR, MP3, OGG, WMA/ASF, 3GA/M4A, FLAC, WAV; MP3/MP4/Music Tones; Music Player; Ringtones, Polyphonic. Video support: AVI/DIVX, WMV/ASF, FLV, MKV, MP4/3GP, WEBM; Video Player; Video Streaming. The 7" has a physical home button so are others in the series. Also has capacitive Back and Menu buttons. Camera is a 1.3-megapixel front-facing camera for skype, and a 3-megapixel rear-facing camera. It is also equipped with an IR blaster so it will work as a universal remote on both your TV and cable box. Camera is only so and so, and I will not rely on it to produce outstanding photos. Weighs very lightweight. SD card capability is awesome! With prices plummeting for microSD GB cards, it is a great boon. Put all your music, books, photos on the SD card and you have a powerful computer in hand always! I tried a OTG cable and 7" does not support OTG. I know for sure Tab 4 8" supports as I tested it. USB Host is one of the most under noticed features of Androids and is in my opinion one of the best features compared to iPad lines. What this means you get a USB Host cable also otherwise called OTG (On the Go) cables and plug in your USB thumb drive or other USB devices and the device recognizes it. GPS was spot on and I tried multiple GPS apps. It was bright outdoors (had to crank the brightness all the way up). I personally use Navigon from Garmin and have downloaded several apps. Finally, believe me, don't get mired in the spec game. 7" is equally capable as a 8in for `most' day to day apps. If you are reading books, browsing, listening to music, looking at photos 7" is more than enough. Samsung is creating markets for all form factors. Just like Ford or Toyota has cars in different shapes, sizes and price range, so are the tablet vendors now. Remember the laptop wars, 10", 12" 13", 15, 17 and even some 19" if I remember right few years ago. We used to debate endlessly which laptop sizes are better, which has better speakers and so on. The time has come to fight it out for tablets! I tried following apps and they just worked awesome. A tablet is only as good as the apps you have and how productive it makes you. It's almost like the camera/lens analogy in the DSLR space. What good it is to have a great DSLR body if you have no good lens? Same with Tablet body and apps you have. WolframAlpha (I can go on for hours praising this. This is a truly genius app powered by hundreds of supercomputers in the background. Wolfram is a computational genius). Withings HealthMate. (another remarkable app great UI/UX). I am getting the Pulse device as soon as it hit stores.) Aldiko Book Reader Premium (absolutely love it) Amazon Mobile Android Central app (great and must have for Android users) Amazon App Store Battery Monitor Widget Pro (a great app) BeyondPod (excellent for podcasts, I haven't used Pocketcast, some friends say it is very good too) Box Chrome Dictionary M-W Premium NAVIGON (from Garmin - offline maps) Google Navigation/Earth/Maps using a portable MiFi box Google Currents (nice way to read News) Google Keep/Keyboard/Drive/Search/Books/Voice/Hangouts Ebay Linkedin Google Music (Awesome, I have now upto 10,000 songs halfway through Google's 20K Limit) Tapatalk HD (awesome forum browsing app) Microsoft One Note (legacy docs, skydrive of 25 GB is good) Subsonic Music Streamer TweetCaster Pro for Android Skype RealCalc Plus (Awesome calculator app) Tweetcaster Pro (again awesomeness) Plenty of Widgets Ask questions, the reviews cannot do full justice. I will be glad to answer any questions and usually answer within 24 hours to any query. APPENDIX: Overview of other tablets in the market. Samsung Galaxy TabPRO 8.4-Inch {B,W}, WQXGA 2560 x 1600, 359 ppi, 2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 800 quad-core processor, 2 GB RAM, 16/[32] GB Flash, microSD upto 64 GB, 8MP Rear + 2MP Front, 331 gm, Android 4.4 Kit Kat OS, 8.62 x 5.06 x 0.28 in, microUSB, GPS yes. 4800 mAh battery (best resolution on a tablet!) Samsung Galaxy TabPRO 10.1 {B, W}, WQXGA 2560x1600, 298 ppi, Exynos® 5 Octa (1.9GHz Quadcore + 1.3 GHz Quadcore), 2 GB RAM, 16/[32] GB Flash, microSD upto 64 GB, 8MP Rear + 2MP Front, 469 gm, Android 4.4 KitKat, 9.57 x 6.75 x 0.29 in, microUSB, GPS: y, 8,200mAh battery Samsung Galaxy TabPRO 12.2 {B, W}, WQXGA 2560x1600, 247 ppi, Exynos® 5 Octa (1.9GHz Quadcore + 1.3 GHz Quadcore), 3 GB RAM, 32GB/64GB Flash, microSD upto 64 GB, 8MP Rear + 2MP Front, 732 gm, Android 4.4 KitKat, 11.64 x 8.03 x 0.31 in, microUSB, GPS: y, 9500mAh battery Samsung Galaxy NotePRO 12.2 {B, W}, WQXGA 2560x1600, 247 ppi, Exynos® 5 Octa (1.9GHz Quadcore + 1.3 GHz Quadcore), 3 GB RAM, 32/64 GB Flash, microSD card slot up to 64GB, 8MP Rear + 2MP Front, 748 gm, Android 4.4 KitKat, 11.64 x 8.03 x 0.33 in, microUSB 3.0 port with backwards compatibility with microUSB 2.0, GPS - y, 9500mAh battery, S-Pen, NFC, Ethernet connectivity via adapter. Kindle Fire HDX 8.9" model: 2560 x 1600, 339 ppi, Snapdragon 800 2.2 GHz quad-core, 2 GB RAM, 16/32/64 Flash Memory, No microSD card, 8MP rear-facing camera, front-facing 720p HD camera, 374 grams, FireOS 3.0, 9.1 x 6.2 x 0.31 inches, microUSB, GPS:no [cellular versions have GPS] Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1" 2014 Edition: 2560x1600, 299 ppi, 1.9GHz Samsung Exynos 5420 Quad-Core Processor, 3GB RAM, 16/32 GB Flash Memory, microSD slot:yes(upto 64 GB), 8MP rear camera and 2 MP front-facing camera, 560 grams, Android 4.3 Jelly Bean OS, 9.57 x 6.75 x 0.31 inches, microUSB, GPS:yes. S-Pen (flagship), iPAD Air 9.7" (2013): 2048 x 1536 resolution, 264 ppi, A7/M7/64 bit processor, Flash Memory: 16/32/64/128 GB, SD Card:no, 5 MP back, 1.2 MP front, 469 grams, iOS 7, 9.4 x 6.6 x 0.29 in, lightning port, GPS:no [cellular versions have GPS] Google Nexus 10" model: 2560 x 1600, 300 ppi, CPU: Dual-core A15, 2GB RAM, 16/32 GB, SD:no, rear:5 MP, front:1.9 MP, 603g, 10.4" x 7" x 0.35", mcroUSB, GPS:yes You should come up with three top three specs you want and should be able to nail it down with the above spec. If you have doubts shoot me a comment, I can help! I hope the key specs I have consolidated here of all the tablets will help you narrow down and help in buying the right tablet for your needs.
1|After 2 weeks of attempting to get my Samsung Tab 3 warrantied I am told tonight by Willy in Consumer Relations that "there is nothing Samsung can do to repair my tablet", incessantly sighting Physical damage as the cause. The tablet was working fine and charging correctly at night, in the morning it would not turn on or charge. I took two pictures of the charging port showing there was no physical damage prior to shipping it to the repair center, as I was expecting to be brushed off citing physical damage, as is common with consumer electronics. Willy insisted that there was no way their service center could have damaged the unit and stated that it was "obviously my fault". I was treated extremely poorly and I still do not have my tablet back, however the service center will fix it for a fee. When I asked to speak to someone else, I was told "there was no one else to speak with" which I find hard to believe that Willy is solely handling all of the Samsung inbound calls on his own. Buyer beware: Samsung does not honor their warranties and cites physical damage as a reason.
1|Never ever ever ever going to buy Samsung products again. The tablet itself was nice, at first. Then after only using it a few times, it started to freeze and the screen had flashing horizontal white bars across it. I spent over 2 hours on their online FAQ section and service area. I performed every restart and reset possible, and it still locks up after only a few minutes of being turned on. Now, I am sure it is just a defective device, which is fine, it happens. But what I cannot understand is why the person at the other end of the phone in their customer service department almost refused to do anything except tell me to reset the machine or to take it somewhere where a technician can reset it for me... really? I have been using electronics for my entire life, I think I know how to follow a few directions on resetting a device. I was one of those people in the eighties who could set the clock on their VCR properly, so it is a little insulting that they assumed I was completely clueless. Their products may be fine, but based on the service alone, I will never buy another product of theirs. I hope this helps others to make a more informed choice when looking for a device. Don't just look at the cost, look at the service. That is why I normally spend a few dollars more on higher-quality products backed up by more responsible parent companies.
1|It's a good device, I love Samsung products... but this freezes up on me multiple times a day!!! Extremely frustrating, especially when my mother has the Tab 3 and she has Never had a problem with hers. And the Tab 4 is supposed to be better all around! Not very happy with my purchase.
1|I never write reviews on products, but I have to on this one....I had my tablet for about 6 months and it stopped charging. I went through the proper channels to send it off to get repaired by Samsung as there is a 1 yr warranty on the tablet. Once they got my tablet it took them 2 weeks to get back to me to tell me they weren't going to honor the warranty because there was a scratch on it (not even near where you connect the charger), but I could pay the $199 out of warranty fee to get it repaired or have them send it back to me not fixed. What does a scratch have to do with it not charging??? They wouldn't tell me why it wasn't charging; if it was the battery or the connection on the tablet, just that I had to pay them $199 to have it fixed. This is what the email said, "In order to repair the unit, we would need an out of warranty fee of $199.00. If you would prefer not to pay this fee, we can ship the unit back to you unrepaired at no cost." I will NOT pay this "out of warranty fee" nor will I EVER purchase another Samsung product again! I would not recommend this to anyone as they do not honor their warranty! My girlfriend had the same problem with her's too and they refused to honor her warranty as well!
1|First off let me say the screen and finish are very nice. now the bad stuff: This 8 gig model has over 4 gigs of unremovable bloatware. You only are allowed 2.7 gigs to use and install apps and you cannot write new apps to the sd card, only files. The system is constantly using whatever memory it can find leaving you wih scraps that constantly disconnect your wifi and stop any streaming of videos you may want to perform. Samsung will not allow you to update the firmware to anythjng newer, or older. Touchscreen lags so if you are on a page that is updating you will have to wait for several seconds or even minutes before you can press the web link you want. Very slow at using non samsung apps. Firefox has A LOT of trouble keeping any memory available. Various cleaner apps like cw cleaner indicate heating and boosting issues. Every five minutes it uses 500mb of ram that need to be flushed before you can get proper usage out of it. Purchased at Costco for 159 and thankfully they will return it with no questions. Samsung cust care is almost non existent. The keyboard frequently misses inputs and the o and p swap places often. Samsung forums are filled with these issues and the predictive typing is a joke. Lastly, the wifi issue. It will constantly lose and rescan the network, even when it shows as connected. The only work around is a temp one, manually adding your network by ssid, then passcode every week Gets very tiring. Memory hog!
5|My brother loves them when I gifted his Christmas last dec! He said that they are perfect technology!
1|If you are looking at this tablet and hope to use the IR blaster, look at another product. Samsung's latest revision doesn't have the IR blaster any longer. I contacted samsung to see if they would replace it, they said all products are subject to change without notice and wouldn't be able to provide any kind of service.
4|I've been browsing around for a smaller tablet since owning (and eventually giving away) the coveted (or cursed) Asus Transformer Prime. I wanted something smaller, but good enough for movies, books, and overall media consumption. I also wanted something that complemented by Galaxy S3 phone. The Tab 4 7 inch hits on all those points very well. For starters, the build quality of the device is superb. The silver lining to the plastic casing adds enough class for any American (because we love our chrome) and acts as a metaphor to Samsung's pledge to near Apple-like quality. I chose the candy white model and it looks great. The plastic doesn't feel cheap and it has a nice weight to it. It seems it's internals are tightly packed resulting in a very thin profile. The thin bezel on the sides really help carry its slim style forward as well. I noticed other tablets like the MeMo 7 inch and LG G Pad 7 inch, which have thicker bezels, and it detracted from the overall experience of the tablet. The 7 inch screen is glorious. The colors are washed (grayed) very slightly, but I didn't notice until I read an Engadget review about it. The brightness of the tablet exceeded many of the others in its class. Its really bright and it helps when viewing in direct sunlight. The downside to the tablet is the performance, but I never felt like it left me hanging for too long. Applications might take a bit-longer to open and the Touchwiz UI may not be as smooth as it's higher-end pro series kin. None the less, again, I never felt impatient. A better way to put it is that the performance was very consistent -- slower than other higher-spec tablets but consistent, and I find that meeting expectations with regards to performance is better than having a high-spec tablet that has unexpected slowdowns (in the case for the Asus Tegra tablets). The Tab 4 7 inch is not using the Snapdragon S400 chipset as originally suggested by several review sites. It's using something else. Also, don't expect to play games very well; even Angry birds (when zoomed out) had some noticeable lag when panning across the map. That said, Minecraft played very well with some of the graphics settings turned down. The tablet also has 1.5GB of memory, which is 500MB more than most in its class. But Samsung is going to need that extra 500MB for its hefty Touchwiz UI and bloat-apps. However, samsung allows you to "turn off" apps, many of which come preinstalled. All-in-all this is a fantastic tablet. I've went back and forth between several other 7 inch tablets (Asus MeMo, LG G Pad, Nexus 7), and its performance and specs are very yesteryear. However, regardless of those downsides, there's some about it that I just love that goes beyond it's performance. When taken as a whole, I love the tablet and I can't put my finger on it as to why. I don't know if its the way that Samsung designed it with its sleek design or it's TouchWiz UI, but the entire package is fantastic. I've went back to the store maybe 2-3 times to try the other tablets. Yeah, they performed a little better, but that Samsung tablet caught my eye and I never regretted buying it. It's on the shelf for $170 when I bought it, and it's worth every penny of it, I just wish they put a better chip on the inside.
5|I'm so glad I got this over the ipad mini. We use ipad minis at my school and I definitely like the tab 4 better. With the ipad minis, all apps, music, and over all functionality must be done a certain way. With the Tab 4 I get speed, the option to add a memory card, and when I plug it into the computer it responds as any other drive. I can drag and drop movies, music, pictures and much more into whatever folder I want to. The screen is absolutely beautiful and the size is just perfect. Very small bezel on each side so holding the tab 4 seems much more comfortable than our ipad minis at school. The ipad mini is too wide to feel comfortable. On my tab 4 I listen to music, watch netflix, watch my own movies, view my photos, and of course to browse the web. I also use it for all my productivity needs like my calendar, my task manager, evernote, and documents using Google docs and WPS documents. I've paired it with my Stowaway bluetooth foldable keyboard and I take notes at meetings just as I would a laptop. I keep everything on my google drive so I always have access to it. For just over a third of what an ipad mini costs, I feel I get more and save a bunch of money.
1|I brought this device to among other thing play hearthstone. but it does not have the space for that. the device starts out with approximately 4GB available, but it declines quickly, mostly due to phantom misc files taking up more then a quarter of the devices memory. I lost 400MB last night due to unknown reasons, and now stand at less the 50MB left. naturally hearthstone had to go away in order to try apps like 'x-plore' that were recommended to help find these phantom files. i also have no MISC files listing under the storage space under settings, but there is a red bar on the storage bar. i had to look for pictures to find that it was the missing factor No answer is readily available. I will reset to factory settings again, any advice is helpful
5|Love the kids mode! Perfect for my 5 year old! A tablet she can grow into. A great combination with the kids case!
1|I want to like this tablet so much. It has a lot going for it at a reasonable price, but there's one problem. It's slow. Not a little slow. Glacially slow. And unfortunately, it must be said, unusably slow. Among modern tablets, speed should be about whether you can use games or how long it takes things to launch. Speed shouldn't mean the tablet is so overwhelmed by basic tasks that it doesn't register clicks or that if something is updating in the background it becomes unresponsive. Sadly, this is how the Galaxy behaves. I bought my daughter a Kindle Fire HD and it outperforms the Tab in every way. If you want a decent 7" tablet and can live without the "full" Google experience, it's a lot better device for less money. It makes no sense as the processor speeds are nearly the same and the Galaxy sports twice as many cores. However, when you have the two in your hands, that's how it is.
3|This is a good tablet no doubt about it, but to me, It Does not live up to Samsung standards. Let me start by informing you my tech level is a standard nerd that knows must things tech. The IR blaster for TV use does not work and uses a different version of the standard "watch on" app that has less tv and other device brands than the normal "Watch On" app on my note 3. Let alone again never could get it working. The battery life is great. The gps is great as well (I use a stand alone navigation app that does not require data). The looks and touch of the screen is of great quality. The camera quality is decent as well. The Bluetooth is a problem. I can get it to connect to my headset but that's it. Can't play music, videos and hear anything so there is no use for the Bluetooth (I even tried using Bluetooth audio apps like mono Bluetooth, no luck). The headset plug in works only on headsets. You cannot use an audio jack to plug into speakers, car audio, or anything else besides headsets. You can connect the audio jack from the tablet to speakers but it will only screech and blow out your speakers. The WiFi actually has a fairly long range even though it may say no signal waves in the bar, it will probably still work. I have a 40mb/s isp and get just that on the tablet. Some necessary apps that are common do not work properly such as es file explorer, you can not move files. (Note: I have to use the standard file explorer that came with the tablet which does not let me into system directories.) The battery life is great, BUT it does have a very picky charging issue. You cannot use any charger. I use the usb cord that came with the tablet, but I learned you cannot use anything that gives more than a 2.1 amp or 2100milli amp output. For some unknown reason the charging ability is outdated by about 8 years. The charger it comes with only pushes 1.2amps which takes about 7 hours to charge the tablet, but I use as I said a 2.1amp charger and it takes about 30 min for a full charge. USING A WRONG TYPE OF CHARGER WILL RESULT IN A RED X OVER THE BATTERY, indicating it is not charging. I typically use a 3.5amp charger for all my devices but can't with this tablet. I have a 32gb mini SD which works perfect and I hold my TV shows and movies as well. BUT the audio on this tablet is very bad and cannot play all new movies such as "The hunger games 2" even though it is in a standard mp4 format as my other movies are that do work such as the new 2014 godzilla and transformers, age of extinction also 2014. All and all the tablet meets my needs with disappointment. If I would have known all of the issues above I would have bought something else. But this is stuff I slowly figured out as attempting them throughout a month or so expiring my ability to return the device. I still stand by Samsung, but consider the tablet 4 to be a black mark on their rapport. I still use the tablet for my intended needs and will hope for an update to fix the above issues. I was just hoping to use the tablet more than my phone and this tablet has failed at the objective. Again this is a good tablet if the above stuff does not bother you. I have learned to live with it as it does surpass my old tablet abilities by far.
1|Bought it the last week of August. By Oct, I was having problems with it freezing up, not being able to access my wireless system, delayed response to touch...and I could go on. Now the thing doesn't work at all. It's frozen. It won't turn off. The volume is non-responsive. Completely broken. Amazon return policy won't allow for return. Love Samsung. Will not buy another tablet from them though. So I spent $180 on a tablet that lasted less than 4 months. Outrageous. Very disappointed.
2|Pros for this tablet: -Form factor means it fits in your hand really well. I have small hands and I can palm it. -Screen is actually pretty decent for what you are paying for. Colors are bright and while a little oversaturated on my unit, they are still pretty good. Videos look good, blacks are fairly black and whites are white. The viewing angle is excellent. -Micro SD slot. -Battery life is decent for what the device is priced at. I am getting about 5.5 hours or so out of it with normal use. Cons for this table: -The biggest issue is the 8GB of on board storage. With the OS installed there's just over 4GB of space open. The tablet requires 3.72GB of open space to function properly. This leaves you with less then 1GB to install apps. Data from some apps can be moved to an SD cards but apps themselves cannot be. Basically, there's almost no room to install anything on this tablet if you want it to be usable. -Speaker is on the rear. It is not easy to hear even at full volume if you are in an open space. -It's slow. Not just poky or a little janky, I'm talking downright slow. The quad-core CPU and 1.5GB of RAM mean nothing when apps take forever to load off the slow storage in the device. Smaller apps like Facebook take longer to load then even my 4 year old iPad 2. Games, if you can get them to install on the tiny storage, have long load times and are full of graphical glitches because of the slow, small storage. -The Version of the Android OS that it was supposed to come with is 4.4.4. Mine had 4.4.2 installed and refuses to find the 4.4.4 update via the software update service. The Samsung Keis software finds the update but it won't install. I wound up resetting the device and clearing all my installed apps and it still won't install. It isn't that big of a deal, but still, it should have came with what it said on the label. The Android 5.0 upgrade is supposed to be coming for the device but I'm not holding my breath. What it comes down to is that this is a small, cheap device that's handicapped by the slow, measly amount of storage on board. Don't buy this tablet. If you want an inexpensive tablet, pick up an Asus Memo Pad 7 or better yet, a Nexus 7. Get at least 16GB of storage or more.
1|This thing is garbage, worked for about 3 months then died, trying to get service from samsung, been on phone all week, currently on my 6th call, been transferred around different hold queues for 1.5 hours already and still on hold. DO NOT BUY, THIS IS GARBAGE, AND SAMSUNG SERVICE IS VERY POOR.
5|I've used more than my fair share of 7" tablets, which I consider to be the ideal size. Larger ones (which I have also owned and used) tend to be a bit too clunky for my tastes. If I'm going to carry around a 10" tablet, I figure I might as well just bring an ultrabook instead- the added weight is worth the extra power, storage, and keyboard. I know some other folks love their iPad/Surface/Transformer/whatever though, so to each their own. If you're looking at this, you're probably someone who tends to agree with me. If not, you're probably looking at the wrong product. First things first: this is not the cheapest tablet out there for the given specs, nor is it anywhere near the most powerful 7" tablet around. The Galaxy Tab 7 series, to be frank, has never scored high marks in either category- focusing more on packaging and reliability. You can get an ASUS MeMo Pad HD for about half the price as this unit, with very similar specs. You can also get a 2nd gen Nexus 7 for a little more, and it has specs that blow the Galaxy Tab 7 out of the water. So why get one of these? Put simply, it's a good balance of relevant features. The most notable of these are: - Android 4.4: This is a big improvement over 4.1 which the previous gen Galaxy Tab and a lot of other similar-gen devices use. Most notably, it lets you move apps to SD without root. This makes the limited internal memory largely a non-issue. - Expandable memory: Part and parcel with the above, you can get an inexpensive 32 GB microSD card and instantly increase your device memory from 8 to 40 GB. That's plenty for even most gamers. - Very nice form factor: This is one of the most compact and lightweight tablets available. It's noticeably shorter than the Nexus 7 (2013) and slightly lighter. - All-day battery life: When they say this tablet can go 10 hours on a charge they aren't joking- and it's 10 hours of regular use, not with the backlight so dim you can't see anything. - IR blaster: If you don't already have one, you can use this as a universal remote. When you consider that most good standalone universal remotes cost around $100, that's not an insignificant bit of functionality. For the cost, this is a nice tablet that is competitive with any other in its price range. Yes, you can get cheaper ones that have similar specs, but not with all the same features (e.g. the aforementioned MeMo Pad HD doesn't have the IR blaster or Android 4.4, and the Nexus 7 doesn't have expandable memory). There are a few things that it would have been nice to have though. Particularly I would have loved to see: -NFC: It doesn't have it, so no google wallet, android beam, etc. -Qi wireless charging: Not what I'd call a huge plus, but it is cool to have. -More internal memory on stock model: Also not a huge deal as it has Android 4.4 and micro SD, but memory is so cheap nowadays- hard to imagine why they'd still have just 8 GB at this pricepoint. A note on the 8" version. I have to say, I don't understand why anyone would get the 8.0 over the 7.0- it has the same resolution and hardware, the only significant differences are a slightly larger (in terms of dimensions) screen and up to 64 GB on the micro SD. Really not worth the added cost. On that note, the screen is not the sharpest one out there but looks very nice and has great viewing angles. The CPU and RAM are sufficient for most applications and a lot better than the previous gen Galaxy Tab. Though not the greatest, the rear-facing camera is fine for taking Instagram shots and can record 720p video. Aesthetically, it's a very attractive device that looks and feels well-built and has a nice textured rear that feels like leather. It has that polished look that Samsung is known for and does not look cheap. If you're mainly an Android gamer, you may want to pay a bit more and get a Nexus 7 or other high-end tablet. However, for most people this is a great tablet that has very solid look and feel and a great feature set. If you're looking for a universal remote, it's almost worth picking up for that functionality alone. If you're also looking for a very light and thin tablet, this is a great choice and hard to beat.
1|Had it shipped overnight in anticipation of using it for a work presentation on Monday. When it arrived I let it charge 100% and when I attempted to power it on I discovered it was in the infamous "Boot Loop". After many hours of attempting to resolve the problem myself through factory resets, cache clearing and even installing the most recent update through an SD card the problem remained. Apart from complete failure that this tablet was the USB cord and charger they sent were bent and would not charge any USB device in the house. Horrendous. This seller is clearly running a scam in an attempt to offload broken devices and accessories onto unsuspecting customers. 0/10. Avoid this seller in any regard.
3|This is just a preliminary review. I got my Tab 4 on Wednesday. I immediately started playing with it. I fully charged it. I set it up according to my preferences. I registered it with Samsung. I paired it with Bluetooth to some of my other devices. I was impressed with how sharp the screens were. It was way better than the Tab 2 it replaces. It was a lot faster than my Tab 2. It was delivered at about 7:30pm and after playing with it for hours, I was tired and went to bed. The next morning I wanted to try out the IR Blaster. There wasn’t one! I never used the IR Blaster on my tab 2, so to me, the lack of one was no big deal, however I hate to be taken advantage of and I felt that TechGiant (fulfilled by Amazon) sent me a slightly inferior product. TechGiant had good reviews and most customers gave them good ratings. I felt I couldn’t go wrong getting my Tab 4 from them. I even gave them a “5” for fast delivery. After discovering the lack of the IR Blaster I thought about the strange things I encountered when I received this. Usually an item like this comes in a sealed box. There was no seal on this box. Usually, there is warranty information inside. There was only a “quick start” guide. When I powered this up for the first time, I was greeted by some instructions written in Spanish. Fortunately I looked at the drop-down menu and figured it was telling me (in Spanish) to choose a language. Later on, all temperatures were displayed in Celsius. I couldn’t help but think TechGiant sent me a tablet designed for another country. I contacted Amazon. They offered to exchange this device. At this point, I haven’t decided. I have gotten items from Amazon for years and I’ve returned a couple of items that were grossly problematic. If I end up returning it or not, I will post an addendum in a few weeks. I have posted some photos illustrating some of the points I made. I have given this three stars for now. Addendum: After I wrote this review I looked at a photo another buyer posted. He said that Samsung no longer included an IR Blaster in the Tab 4. It is advertised as being included. The Amazon associate I chatted with said it is included. What gives?
5|Very happy kid! Thank you!
3|I'm coming off of an iPad 2 (march, 2011) and bought the Tab 4 7" because my 2-year-old basically confiscated the iPad to play toddler games. I wanted something smaller that I could hold in one hand for reading, browsing, and a few games here and there. The first impression of the design was that it was quite good for the price. It's light, it's slim and it's utilitarian. There's no aluminum uni-body construction here, just plastic and more plastic, but it certainty looks acceptable and I don't need to worry about scratching all that pretty brushed aluminum. What's the point if you're just going to slap a protective cover on it anyway?. Other impressions are that I like Android for it's openness compared to iOS. It may not look (by any means) as pretty, and it's certainly not consistently designed, but it works for what it was intended and I don't need Apple's "approval" to download an app that does something they don't agree with. I also like the ability to use cheap SD cards for storage (BIG plus here), whereas Apple locks up memory into a completely proprietary $100/GB scam. The stuff is on the market for $1/GB, and that's for the performance RAM. 'Nuf said about the fleecing Apple has been committing for YEARS when it comes to RAM prices. I'm not even going to complain about the paltry (these days) 1280x800 display. I don't need the extra resolution because my eye's aren't exactly what they used to be, nor do I want to pay for it. 1280x800 is acceptable, especially on a 7" tablet, which makes for halfway decent density. I can't see the pixels even with glasses, so it's good enough. However If I were reviewing the 10.1, I'd be hammering it for pixel density. All that being said, what I really do NOT like about the Tab 4 is that it's FREAKING SLOW. My (almost 4) year old iPad 2 blew this thing out of the water. I can only imagine that the 1.2Ghz processor Samsung is using is 3 years behind the times and/or there's not enough internal RAM (1.5GB). Somewhere along the way they decided to save $10 and gimp what would otherwise be a no-brainier choice. You can't even browse a simple page without lagging and shuddering. If I had to do anything quickly on this thing, I'd send it back immediately and get a Tab "Pro", which looks to be twice as fast at 2 times the cost. In the end, and as long as you don't care/need anything even remotely resembling speed, this is a reasonable choice. To the reviewer that said "Samsung has done it again!", all I can say is, done what? Barely updated the under-powered Tab 3 with another under-powered Tab 4? Seriously how much does it cost a manufacturer to use a faster processor of their own design and production? $5, $10? Some performance would have made this a 5-star tablet at this price point. As it stands, It's a ho-hum tablet at a ho-hum price.
1|I love this tablet, but I have had it since 1/22/14, and have had to return it to Samsung 7 times in 6 months. Sometimes I have had it as little as 12 hrs., before it started turning off on me again. They say they have replaced the motherboard 3 times! But, it comes back to me with the same problem. It shuts off in the middle of a movie or game and then I have to rebot it and set the clock and date all over again. They have not given me a new one yet!
3|These 7" tablets are the best size IMO. They can pretty much go anywhere, even in your back pocket or purses for women. As a photographer, this size helps keep the amount of gear I carry light. It's just too bad they don't seem to think anyone wants this size anymore and don't offer the new tabs in this size. I guess with the phones getting bigger, I can see the logic. So this will probably be the most powerful 7" Samsung tablet at least for a while. The operation is smooth and flawless. There's lots of after market accessories to choose from. The size also makes it easier to hold like a book as opposed to the larger one's where you need two hands usually. So what's not to like and why did I give only 3 stars? This tablet does NOT support USB OTG. So the only thing you can plug in to is a power cord. Not even able to connect to your computer. Transfers to and from the computer have to use the microcard. No thumb drives, external keyboards, controllers, etc. Wow, turns out that's a deal breaker for me. I need to be able to download images from my camera to it. The older 7" tab 3 had OTG support, the larger 8" and 10" tab 4's have it, but not this one. Do yourself a favor and get the SM-T235 or the SM-T237P tablet and you'll be able to connect all the devices you probably just assumed you could. Oddly enough, all the tab 4 7" models sell for around the same on ebay (respective of condition, etc) except the 231 model which goes for a little more. But I'm not sure why as it does no more the these 230 models. Get the 237P model made for Sprint which has the OTG support, 16gb internal and LTE if you want to pay for it and if not just use it as a wifi unit. I bought a like new 237P for $85. What's really interesting is I can turn it into a phone if I want which I might do to see what it would be like. I know when enabled, this LTE is super fast since it has Sprint Spark which is said to tap into all three Sprint-LTE radios in the 800 MHz, 1.9 GHz, and 2.5 GHz frequencies.
4|Glad I got this instead of an iPad mini. I've got an iPad 2 and after iOS8 killed it I decided to get a backup tablet. I got a Samsung 32GB microSD to use with this tablet and playing videos off of it is smooth. Transfering the files from my computer to the card was easy, unlike the pain of transfering the files through iTunes. This will be mainly used for light emailing, streaming videos, casual web browsing, and watching videos off of a microSD card. So far so good. The camera is inferior to those on an iPad but look at the price. I am also not the kind of person who brings an tablet around to take pictures/videos.
1|The tablet is full of bloatware that I will never use... Somewhere around 30 apps that Samsung pre-installs. And you cannot remove them. Plus having the Samsung App store and the google store competing on the same device is not intuitive at all. I am not impressed.
4|I Love Samsung Products Most Preferred Brand For Phones And Tablets. I Give This Tablet A 4.5 Out Of 5 Stars Pros: Nice Display Resolution For My Eyes, Fast Processing At Times, Lovely Touchwiz Design, Decent Camera Quality, Nice Speakers. Cons: Sluggish At Times, Can't Remove Unwanted Apps Or Widgets Like Google Search On The Bottom Left Sometimes I Press It By Accident While Tapping Something Else It Gets Very Annoying Trust Me You Will Know Notice It, No Light Up Keys This Would Have Been Nice For Use At Dark Places.
5|Love Samsung galaxy, I own one I bought kids ages 9,4 kindle tabs hoping they would be more kid friendly, was a waste. Sent them back and got kids same tablet as me. Love them. Kids love them. Easy to use.
3|My short review: this is a great tablet for personal use, with one MAJOR disappointment and that is AMAZON PRIME INSTANT VIDEO DOES NOT SUPPORT THIS OR OTHER SAMSUNG TABLETS. My long review: I've been an Android user for a long time but this is my first Samsung device. I purchased this mostly for my personal use (internet, email, pictures, books magazines, games, light watching, etc.) this is a great tablet and I recommend it for these uses. BUT, I am a parent of preschool/elementary school age kids and I also wanted to be able to access my purchased Amazon library content on it. However, this and apparently other Samsung Tables are not supported by Amazon Prime Instant Video which is a very BIG disappointment and if I was aware of this before I would not have purchased this tablet. I did consider returning it but as I said it works great for my personal use so I will keep it and instead next time I want to buy a movie I'll probably buy on Google Play. My rant: I have done a lot of research on the web and there are supposedly ways to stream prime videos but I have not been able to get either to work. I did download the Prime app (which was not trivial) but it only directs me to the website which sends me the Amazon app which directs me to the Prime app which sends me to the website again, ... you get the picture. Needless to say, the same app works seamlessly on my HTC phone. There is also an "un-official way" which is a pain to set up (download a separate browser and flash player, change bunch of settings on your device as well as your prime settings, which could mess up your other devices) and even then, you still cannot download your movies to play off-line. I cannot be sure of this but I believe that this is not necessarily a technology issue but a marketing issue. So AMAZON AND SAMSUNG PLEASE TAKE NOTE because I and 95% of other parents of young children who I know (or who I don't know but have observed in public places) would like to be able to play movies/TV shows for our kids outside of home where there is no wifi. Example: in a restaurant, on a plane, on a road trip, in a hotel room, etc. which means the content need to be ON THE DEVICE AND NOT STREAMING so Netflix and hulu and Amazon Prime on this device are useless.
4|After owning a cheap $69 tablet, it is a relief to have one that doesn't slow down to the point of barely working after a month. I mostly like this, just didn't like the following in regards to this Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7inch. USB hosting - this 7 inch tablet doesn't do it. Very disappointed, because the cheapo tablet I owned before did. After doing some internet research, it sounds like only the 8 and 10 inch tablets do this. So now I kind of wish I had bought the tab 3 in the 8 inch version, instead of the tab 4 7 inch. I really wish I could put pictures from my camera onto the tablet. I like to share pictures this way when I am on vacation. I tried with a USB-OTG cable with no luck. If anyone figures out how to do this, I would love to know. Amazon instant video - I was holding out on getting a prime membership because it really bugged me that I couldn't stream amazon instant video onto an android tablet. I don't want to go out and buy a kindle or ipad just to watch it. I finally decided to get prime, and found very helpful people on the internet. Here is the simple solution - get the Dolphin browser app. Dolphin allows you to watch flash. However, amazon now uses silverlight instead of flash, but there is a work around for that too. You no longer have to go online and download special packages, it's all updated. (When I did my research, people said I had to side load the Dolphin jetpack, but I didn't, it must be updated now). All I did was this: Install the dolphin browser app in the playstore. If you try to play amazon video, it will ask you to install silverlight. It won't play, because you need to use flash. So then, when you are in the dolphin browser, go to the amazon page, then go to the amazon instant video page or amazon prime page. (You can do this part from any browser and from any computer) There is a link at the top more towards the right, that says "settings." Click that, then scroll down to where it says Web Player Preferences. It will probably be checked on Silverlight. Change it to use "flash" instead of "silverlight." Then you are good to go! I don't know if this affects playback on your other devices, but now you can watch your prime content on your tablet. Hope this helps. (This is just a long explanation for downloading dolphin browser and changing the settings to use flash instead of silverlight. Just thought some people might need more explicit directions.)
1|I have a galaxy s5 phone so I thought the tab would be great. Apparently an adult made the phone and a child put together the tablet. If you love lagging, poor contrast and and display, as well as receiving something and trying to get rid of it. This is your tablet.
2|I'm very disappointed but I received the product being offered as a brand new product that is why I bought it a such high price, and the product I just received is a refurbished one, this is not something that is on the publication of the product; so I feel cheated. The box of the product was obviously alter the refurbished stickers with a precision cutter, this shows that the product was not brand new.
3|I purchased this at my local Walmart after making up my mind on getting it and not wanting to waiting to get it sent to me from Amazon. And It was about $20 cheaper going through Walmart today. I had high hopes for this device as I have a Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 (7 inch) and it worked wonderfully and was very happy with it. I purchased the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 as I decided it was time to upgrade. Little did I know that Kitkat (4.4 Android OS) handicaps your SD card in that it is much harder to move apps to your SD card. I can not put many apps on this device as I would like as I can not move my apps to my SD card. I was able to do this with my old Samsung Galaxy Tab 2. I'm not able to fully enjoy my tablet due to this limitation as I sometimes like to download 1+GB size games onto my tablet. My review would be higher if I could use my SD card to it's fullest extent and enjoy all my purchases for apps. The screen looks excellent on this little device (a big reason why I wanted to upgrade, that and wanted a quad core processor in my tablet). I just hope that there is an update sometime soon to help make SD cards more useful as a big reason why I purchase something like this is so I can enjoy my apps on this system.
1|Not charging after few weeks, need to be fixed
5|I started by buying a Kindle Fire HDX and although there is much to recommend it, I ended up returning it and purchased this tablet which for me works out better. In comparing the two of them, I cannot tell any difference in processor speed. I preferred the sound -much better on the Kindle and the video screen, better on the Kindle. The Kindle is heavier and has an Amazon modified android system which you can work around - frankly I prefer straight android- the Samsung uses KitKat which is enough different from Jelly Bean to require getting use to it. The Samsung can take a 32 gb micro sd card which gives it much more memory than the Kindle and for me the breaker regarding the Kindle is battery life. Leaving it off with WiFi connected drains battery life. I am not a heavy user and mostly read and check emails. With the Kindle, I was charging every two days and with the Samsung , much less frequently
1|I loved the size of the tablet and screen quality, but that's all. Tablet would not stay connected to Wifi. Kept dropping connection and I always had to keep hitting Retry when the blank screen would appear. Tried connection on 4 other Wifi sources, to rule out my router, and the same thing would happen. Tablet would also freeze at times forcing me to reset the device to get it to work again. Mine was very sluggish, slow to respond and overall buggy. Sent back for refund.
4|Ok I brought this for my child mainly because it has kid mode and the apps in android are free compared to apple. I am an apple fan and I have an ipad mini and air and I should be good right? Nope I grab this one before my ipad mini and I feel so bad that I am neglecting my ipad mini lol I havent put this down since I brought it. The fact it could fit in my pocket has won me over I really wish apple would consider this size! Also the multiview has won me over 100% I can watch youtube videos and surf the web. I am truly addicted i have a lot of windows open on my tab and it still doesnt lag. For kids its great because of kids mode and free educational apps, apple you have to pay. Apple is good for older students and buis people but for ent and browsing def, get this. Its 139.00 cheaper than anywhere else. I brought it at best buy for 150 with a free 20.00 gift card I am an apple fan for life but I cant help loving this. Its way more portable than the mini. Yes you can carry the ipad mini in your purse and backpack but what if you dont feel like carrying either this can go in ur pocket real quick. The ability to be able to customize your icons and etc I missed because apple limits you. If youre like me and you multitask this would be great and you cant beat the price! Instead of getting an air get this and the mini you'll have the best of both worlds. For kids this is a must, unless they are in grade school where it is required for them to have an ipad But the multiscreen view will win people over and apple has tried but they have it only for their airs 2 in the fall and thats just sad. Because no one is gonna spend 500 just for that feature. I have the tab 3 as well and honestly that stayed in my kitchen as a recipe book. It was more bulky and thicker I rarely brought it anywhere. So if you are looking to upgrade to the tab 4 from the 3 it is worth it. Its much thinner and more portable and a lot more faster! I think my tab 3 will be passed down to my kid instead of this lol is that wrong? Now the camera suckkkss!! The ipad mini has a way better camera but who really uses their tablet to film and take photos. I don't even bother with the camera unless I really don't have a camera with me. This is worth the buy, you are not gonna go home and use it and regret buying it. You will love it more and more.
1|We bought this for our kids' Christmas present intending them to use it for games and light web surfing, but it proved to be too slow for anything. Scrolling in any view was painful - it took a few seconds before it would start scrolling. Even simple games were painfully slow. Returned it and bought a Nexus 7 and could be happier with that one.
2|I'm having the same problem as others With wifi. I have a tab 10 and it works fine so I know it's not my router. If it didn't disconnect all the time it would be OK I guess so I didn't give it one star.
5|Great for the price, works great and its a samsung. 7" is a good size and does the job well. Would recommend.
1|Liked the unit and the Android OS, but after about 3 weeks it wouldn't take a charge and the battery ran down to nothing and it wouldn't start up. Got a refund but had to pay for return shipping.
1|Did not work, kept turning on and off. Was a hassle to return. Never go to Hong Pam again.
5|I love the tablet, it was a Father's day present. It will come in very useful in my business connections with my customers. It will help in keeping me free from carrying around a bunch of folders.
1|I liked alot about this tab; however, the biggest issue is that there is some weird lag and stuttering on some/many of the applications, Not a strong enough processor? I went through some of the key apps and candy crush had some weird delays when switching candies and then the follow up movements of the candies, it was so bad that i couldn't even tell what had occurred as alot of the movement was simply lost and not shown. I went through other games and in some of them I saw similar issues. I have no run across multiple games that simply do NOT work; however, work on Asus, some of these are clearly intensive on the processor/graphics. This tablet is a failure unless you plan to only steam video. I also tried a few other pads and here is some of the comparisons (in similar price points) Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7.0 Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1) Battery: All about the same Samsung Galaxy tab 4 - About 6 hours, full brightness and netflix over wifi before warning comes up Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - About 6 hours, full brightness and netflix over wifi before warning comes up Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1) - Slightly longer, ~ 6 hours, full brightness (brightness is lower, so...) and netflix over wifi before warning comes up Screen: Resolution: same Samsung Galaxy tab 4 - Same Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Same Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1) - Same Brightness/Color: Winner: Samsung *not by much Samsung Galaxy tab 4 - Best in brightness and color, at max brightness best i have seen with good colors Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - My eyes couldn't tell too much difference in brightness to Samsung at first, colors by themselves look great, compared to Samsung same at low brightness (somewhat washed out at full brightness, but if not comparing is still good.) Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- Lowest brightness (not an issue for me unless in full sunlight and then the Samsung still wasn't readable) Sound: No clear winner * with caveat (all have speaker on back, and all have the headphone noise level just a little bit too low) Samsung Galaxy tab 4 - maybe slightly better without headphones, no comparable difference for no audiophile using headphones Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Comparable to the Samsung, both with and without headphones Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- The one I got had some weird feedback/ noise issue, I went to test out others in a store and didn't exhibit the issue (returning to get a new one), slightly heavier on base Performance/Lag/stuttering: Tie on Memo Pads, Samsung FAILED for me on more than a few games. Samsung Galaxy tab 4 - Bad lag and stuttering to the point that it was unplayable on some games Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Had learned my lesson on the Memo 7 and saw no issues Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- Originally had some lag and then noticed it was installing ALL of my apps in the background, once I waited for that to happen the lags were gone (also turned off the auto update on apps). Camera: Memo Pad 8 Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7.0 -> decent camera, Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Good camera, The rapid shoot option is really cool for action shots; however, needs LIGHT Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- Worst camera, not a show stopper for me as I don't intend to use the camera often on a tablet Other: Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7.0 -> the IR blaster is a cool idea; however, have it on my samsung phone and note 10 and simply don't use it, as stated earlier kids mode is nice Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Rapid camera mode, power buttons are weird locations: harder to accidentally turn off table, harder to intentionally turn off tablet Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- power buttons are weird locations: harder to accidentally turn off table, harder to intentionally turn off tablet Apps: Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7.0 -> I usually hate the bloatware, both have them, The kids account option is nice; however, can get similar options through google play, textured back Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Bloatware similar (different) than samsung, no kids account option, but can get something similar through Google play, textured back Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- Bloatware similar (different) than samsung, no kids account option, but can get something similar through Google play, smooth back Price: Memo Pad 7 Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7.0 -> More expansive for a the 7, by $20-40 or more with recent Amazon sale on Asus Memos Memo pad 8 (ME181C-A1) - Only 10 more to get a 8 inch tablet with recent Amazon sale Memo Pad 7 (ME176CX-A1)- Best price by far saves 20-40, get a case and some other accessories For me the Memo Pads are the better option now trying to decide between the 7 and the 8 :)
5|My grandson loves it and i also enjoy it i am thinking of getting one myself and yes i would reccomend it my grandson is 7 and works it like a little expert
5|Before buying this (great!) Samsung Tab I’ve also been looking at the tablet which is listed here: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00DVFLJKQ/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00DVFLJKQ&linkCode=as2&tag=newcams-20&linkId=VHINFMO4SBX5X5FY The tablet listed above had some great specs (just like this Samung Tab) so I couldn’t decide which one to buy. But finally after some helpful recommendations I managed to make a choice and decided to buy this this Samsung Tab 4. Three weeks have passed now and I am still very happy I made this decision. Why? First off is Samsung's TouchWiz, which is a pretty finely tuned overlay for Android KitKat, and it's butter smooth. Second, the ability to run dual apps at the same time, even being able to move data between the two apps drag&drop style, all selectable from a simple side swipe. Third, Samsung gives you some really good deals with the tablet including the Google play Office software so you can spreadsheet/doc yourself crazy, as well as a bunch of other sweet extras that you would normally have to shell out some serious Google play bucks for. Some reviews I’ve been reading said that the Tab 4 7.0 is slow, and that is completely incorrect. This tablet is blazing fast. It's got Quad Core, and 1.5GB of RAM running KitKat...seriously. Samsung puts the tablet into "power saver" mode from the factory...which chops the processing power, display, etc. to save on battery life. If you take it out of power saver mode, it uses all of the quad core processor, and it quite simply comes alive. Battery life even at 60-70% brightness and heavy usage, no power saver, will still easily run ALL day and into the night with no problems. With power saver, you add another day+, just sacrificing speed to do so. To disable power saver, swipe down on the top of the screen, and tap the icon that says "power saver". Kill that thing, trust me. It's got GPS, which is a huge plus in my book. Turn-by-turn, without needing WiFi. Not to mention the location services are drastically accurate. All in all, if you are a professional, or just someone consuming vast amounts of internet, and wanting something in the 7" size that will run all day, and keep up. It's absolutely perfect!
2|If you're looking for a basic Android tablet with all the proper Google services, it's good enough. Email, social networking, minimal web browsing, maybe a little bit of streaming video? Sure, no problem. Samsung is so ubiquitous in the Android world that you can pretty much guarantee mainstream apps will be available, and TouchWiz is tolerable (especially once you download Google Now to hide behind it). No trouble replacing the Samsung keyboard with Google keyboards either. Screen-splitting is neat, and more apps support it than you'd expect. Restricted profiles are great for kids. And THANK YOU Samsung for sticking to your guns on the micro-SD slot. The problems on the margins add up, though. Not enough RAM for streaming video players to work well until you kill background tasks manually. Mediocre Wi-Fi reception, so be aware of where your router is located. No NFC, so moving photos between phone and tablet goes back to the bad old days of manual Bluetooth or kicking them all the way out to cloud apps. No Qi, which would be more forgivable if the micro-USB port were oriented the same way as every other manufacturer's port (and if Samsung packed a 2A AC adapter with this rather than a measly 1A phone-grade version). Silly Hancom office suite bloatware (I see you, chaebols). And no automatic brightness adjustment -- seriously, no automatic brightness adjustment in 2014? I didn't even bother to look for that in the spec listing, having had it on phones since 2010. It'll get jobs done for now. And ultimately, I bought this tablet expecting to turn it over to my son one day. He won't care about most of its problems. And because of them, it won't hurt my feelings when he breaks it.
5|I just received my tablet a few days ago and I love it. A lot of people write reviews with specs and comparisons, I just tell you what I like, which is a bit of a comparison to Amazon's own Kindle Fire (2nd Gen.) A while ago I bought an S3 phone and to this day it remains the best phone I have ever owned. That phone made me a Samsung Customer for life. When it came time for me to upgrade my Kindle Fire I almost bought an HDX but at the last moment, I opted for the Galaxy Tab for one simple reason... Google Play. As much as I loved my Fire, the clunky keyboard and inability to get a lot of the apps I love was what ultimately steered me toward the Galaxy Tab and I have not been disappointed. I love the user- friendly interface and I especially love how similar it is to my phone. I haven't yet found an app I wanted that I could not get. As soon as I fired it up and logged into my account it automatically installed everything for me very quickly. All I had to do was remove 2 or 3 apps that were specific to my phone and one that requires the use of a flash or exterior light. The battery has a great lifespan and the charger has a nice, long cord. The screen is beautiful, vibrant, and very responsive. The galaxy tab is also much lighter than my old Kindle Fire making it much easier for me to read into the wee hours of the morning. I will stop short of considering the Galaxy Tab a superior device, after all I am comparing a brand new device to one that I purchased a few years ago, perhaps I would feel different if I were comparing my Galaxy tab to a brand new HDX. So far Amazon's customer service has been TOP NOTCH with my Kindle Fire (actually I have two,) and I think Samsung would be hard pressed to beat them. In the end, as I said before..Google Play and a true android operating system is what won me over. If you have a Galaxy phone you're in love with and looking to compliment it with a tablet, you cannot go wrong with a Galaxy Tab. CONS: My only complaints are the weak camera, lack of flash or exterior light, and smaller 8g size. That said, I'm sure I could have spent more and got a flash, better camera, and 16 or 32 g or memory...but I'm not made of money. Compared to what I paid for my S3 phone, this was a steal anyway. In the end, those few items are not worthy of dropping a star, especially when I could get those options if I wanted to pay for a more advanced device. I didn't pay for a better camera, flash, or 16 g, so there is no reason to use those points to justify lowering my review. Again, my Galaxy Tab is brand spanking new so I will come back and update if anything changes.
5|I love it. It works great. Watch many movies with it. Love the Bluetooth and Wi-Fi features. The seven inch tab is not too big and not too small so I can enjoy my movies and it's portability.
4|I love it! Works great as an e-reader (I bought it to replace my old Nook - and am very happy with it). Battery life is excellent. Works great for Skype and many other programs. Wireless connection is fast. Overall a good tablet. The stock video player is a bit wonky, in that it's hard to go forward or back - the same is true when watching online videos. I also don't care for how Samsung "groups" programs. When I group apps on my LG phone, they come together in a folder icon, whereas this tablet will cluster them in a hodge-podge. Not annoying enough to kill the sale, but there are better arrangements. My only complaint - which technically isn't the fault of the tablet itself - is that it comes with a ton of bloatware, or perhaps, just things that I'm not going to EVER use. These items are not removable, nor are they able to be moved to my storage card. The system memory and base apps, along with the 12 - 15 apps I've added, now only give me 1.5 GB of open space. Which seems to be okay - until I want to download an Amazon movie for an upcoming flight. Suddenly, I'm out of space. You have to be very discerning with which apps you want to load and which you don't need. Yes - I did know that it was only an 8GB machine when I bought it, but I had no idea that the base system would gobble up so much of that space and that none of the pre-loads could be removed (which I think stinks)
1|Terrible luck with this. I bought 2 for christmas. They worked for about four months than neither of them would accept a charge. I sent them to samsung to be repaired. When i got them back they worked for a month and had the same problem. I strongly recommended looking for a different product
4|This is my first tablet and it has become my go to for almost all my Web browsing. I've been 100% pleased with its performance. My only other mobile device has been my iPhone 3Gs. I find the tablet more than adequately bridges the gap between my phone and my old school desktop. The front camera was more than adequate for my one Skype session with a friend who was out of town. Battery life is excellent. If I had to list anything negative it would only be that the screen shows fingerprints but never to the extent that it impedes viewing. I would recommend this product to friends and family.
5|Outside of an all-in-one desktop computer, this is my first purchase of this kind of technology. Even the cell phone I have is a cheap pay as you go phone that I use to check email sometimes. If memory serves me right, it cost me about $15 at Best Buy about 3 years ago. So anyhow, I'm a newbie at this sort of thing. After a few days of using the Tab 4, I think it's great but wish it had a phone included at only a slightly higher price range, say, $50. I purchased this on a spur of the moment impulse and really it's just to watch videos during lunch break or sometimes during my commute (however, this will be rare as my commute is usually dedicated to reading). One of the best things about this product is that Samsung has free chat help online. Please, NEVER get rid of this. This will keep me a customer for life! Don't start charging for it and don't cut the service. Hidden expenses besides the roughly $180 plus tax? Well, you will need a case. Mine cost $30 in the store. Some were even more. But you can find them at half that online. But get something solid to keep it protected. You will also want to get the 32gb SD card. Some comments online state that the 64gb card will work, too. I asked Samsung in the chat and was told "no," which doesn't make it true, but it's not in the specs, which state a limit of 32gb. The learning curve, after some tech help, is kind of quick. Once you see how some things are done, it starts to get easier figuring out other stuff for yourself. This morning I set up something called WatchOn. I thought it was to watch cable on the Tab. But as I afterward found out, it only converts your Tab 4 into a TV/Cable remote. Really, they should name the app differently. WatchOn means something entirely different. There is an app for reading books. I don't plan to use it as I own several thousand books and still love the feel of a real book. One feature I like is a program that reads PDF and Word files. I have a Word file of over 50 pages listing all my books so when I'm out I don't buy stuff I already have. But I have to carry around a printed version. Now I can just open it in the Tab 4. When I was transferring movie files there was a popup asking me if I wanted to convert the movies as they may not play. Convert them to what? I'm not sure. But I said no and they played just fine. They are m4v files that I made using handbrake. There is a camera and a video camera (the camera has a front and rear picture option, one of which the quality is a little better in terms of pixels and image size). The user manual can be downloaded online and explains a lot more than I can here (it also came with a little booklet that I haven't even looked at yet). Anyhow, there are a lot of features on this device. Games, etc. Right now I don't really want to get involved in these things as I want to stay focused on reading. But for others, I'm sure you'll find lots of interesting things to keep you occupied. Oh, one more thing. I bought this Zagg screen protector. Waste of time for me. The directions were lousy and I had to throw it out. What I found out is this though. In order not to touch the screen directly I wrapped the skimpy (thin) micro cloth that came with the Zagg screen around my index finger and the Tab 4 worked just fine, reacting to my touch as if it were my finger. I suppose any eyeglass micro-fiber cloth should work fine, too. In closing, great product and I hope to get several years of good use out of it. I will definitely buy again from Samsung if they continue putting out a great product with great online help.
5|Its cheap and beautiful. I carry this in my high school, of course everyone asks if its a phone or not, best thing is that it fits in my pocket. I dropped it already about 4 feet in the locker room and it landed face first. Thank god for the build quality, perfectly fine. Only personal flaw is that the games are laggy sometimes, and the WiFi chip should have been better. Other then that it is the best tablet for the price hands down! Sold my iPod 5 for this and it is WAY WAY better, I was always an apple person. Not anymore.
5|Very good for the price. I currently use an S5 for my main phone so I was used to the Samsung ecosystem. The TAB 7 inch is great and I'll lay out a few pros and cons here. Pros: Price is reasonable. Visually appealing tablet, it's very simply designed with the iconic samsung look. Works well on most tasks such as Netflix, reddit, light gaming, etc. Touch wiz ui has been scaled down to the basics. You can definitely pick it up and run with it. Was looking for something a little more basic so it worked well. Cons: It is my understanding that you can pick up faster tablets for around the same price such as nexus 7. Currently this model can't be rooted by towelroot. Cameras are very basic so don't expect much there. App is quick to open and snap pics though. Have noticed a bit of lag when several apps are running which can be fixed by closing them. Even though the tablet is 8gb in size, you only get around 3 gigs of storage space. Definitely will want to get an SD card here. The official supported size is up to 32gb but I've heard users mention 64 gig cards work in their tablets. Overall there are good and bad things about it. While there are faster or fancier options available for you to try, I like this tablet because of its size, basic features, good battery life, and user interface. It's a great option if you want something simple for simple tasks.
3|A solid product with a few drawbacks. I also own a Samsung Galaxy Note phone, and I was able to sync all my applications and documents seamlessly in seconds. My Galaxy Tab became a clone of my Note instantly. The Tab is great for streaming videos, reading, and surfing the internet. The screen on the Tab is easy on the eye and its' size still makes it portable enough to carry in one hand. I can tether the Tab to my Galaxy Note when I am out of WIFI range as well. Overall the Galaxy Tab is a great little device. One big drawback is the camera resolution. Even the back camera takes some embarrassingly bad res photos. Not worth using. It is actually better to take the photos with my phone and backup to the cloud to view on the Tab...I mean really how much did Samsung save on that one. On occasion, I have seen the WIFI drop out. Not sure why, not that it happens that often, but I can be sitting right next to the wireless and it will drop. Anyway, if you don't need to have the very best... it is a good deal.
4|This is my first tablet and i love it so far. It's been only two weeks and i cannot give you a full review yet, but i can say below confidently: I have not used my laptop much since i got this. I don't have a smart phone, but this is like one without phone service or connectivity, i imagine. Only time i use my laptop anymore is when i have to do heavy duty typing, organize my pictures and music, and when i want to print something. Emails, skype, net surfing, do it all on tablet. If you are used to apple products and never worked on Android product, it will take a bit of time to get used to, so it will require some patience. It seems like everything is customizable. Pro is you can personalize it to almost exactly how you want it to function. Con is that you have to go through so many setup options to get there. Default setting is okay, but definitely spend some time on setup to conserve battery and turn off annoying notifications. If you are not familiar with Android and don't want to mess with setup much, apple maybe a better choice. But don't discount this option just yet. Google play (app store) is setup to auto update all apps. It seems to slow down device and sucks battery. To turn it off, go to Google play store, setting (top left corner of the screen), and turn off auto update apps. Screensize is about x4 of iPod touch screen (not the whole device, just screen) A person with a larger smartphone may think 7 inch tab is just an extra large smartphone without phone and be unsatisfied. Not a fan of the soft keyboard, but you can download different keyboard apps to solve the issue. Two things i do like are: numbers are part of the main keyboard, and language option. So many languages. I can type japanese just like on a regular keyboard, which is huge. (I still haven't found a keyboard app offers this AND has better english typing experience) One cool thing about this tab (maybe if this is standard in all tabs??) is you can set up different users like computer. Everything is completely split. Even pictures you take won't be available for another user to view (though for our case we wish it was a shared album) camera is ok. Low light takes poor picture, but just change the mode to night and it improves quality quite a bit. If you have decided to buy this product, make sure to also purchase: Screen protector Tablet case Mini SD card mini SD card, so that you can move downloaded apps to it to save storage. If you have a card inserted, all pictures you take will be automatically saved on the SD card. The tab comes with 8GB storage, and the mini SD card i got for 10 dollars on amazon adds 32GB more. Tab comes with pre-installed apps you cannot get rid of, so 8GB doesn't go very far. Packaging was eco friendly with 100% post consumer recycled paper, printed with soy ink. 100% recyclable. This was not expected and was a big plus for me. If you are like me who wants hands on experience before deciding, go to your local store and play with it first. I think this is a perfect tab for a beginner with tight budget like us. The price has come down so much since now there is a newer tab called S, but it still seems like a very well built product and i am very satisfied with my first time tablet purchase and experience. ***addtitional info as of 12/26/2016. About storage, fun apps, and more This tab has Android 4.4.2, Kitkat. What i have read says that starting with this operating system they started preventing some Apps to be moved to SD card. I downloaded photo edit app, which i was able to move to SD card, but the photo i edit won't save on the card. I downloaded an app that imports library from my iTune account but it won't save the music on card. The reason for this restriction is speculated to be in effort to promote and encourage consumer to use Cloud service. 2 years of service is offerred for free with this tab (or maybe for a new samsubg user?) Anyway, i worked around to save music on SD card, and it is fine, just take extra time. There are some apps that helps you move these non-movable apps, (search under SDCARD FIX), but it doesn't solve all issues and some required more tech involvement than i was willing to invest my time on. IF you are trying to hook up your tablet to a mini projector or any HDMI, this tablet doesn't support the functionality. There is no adaptor out there that could do that either. I believe newer device supports it, but you have to make sure you check whether HDMI is supported or Video Out is supported for it to work. This is one big disappointment for me. IF you are trying to download Apple Music, this device is currently isn't compatible either. the Apple Music app is in Beta stage, so it may change, but i won't be surprised if it just ever doesn't get supported.Seems as though there is a lot of limitation built into this device. I was buying this to test out to see if we like a tablet in our household. Now I see all the things a tablet could possibly do, I wish it did all of that. With that said, if I had known all of this and I would like having tablet around my household, I would probably have shelled out 50+ dollars to buy newer tablet so that I could do a lot of things that this tablet isn't letting me do. I think I got greedy with functionality. This tablet still is good for the price and if you aren't looking for the tablet to do all the things that $200+ tablet would do for you, this is still a really good tablet. :) Now let's make the most out of this cool little device. Here are some free fantastic fun apps to consider downloading: Pocket - any online materials you may want to read later, just "share" via Pocket (instead of facebook, twitter, and such), and the article will be saved on your Pocket app and read it offline. Youtube videos are viewable when you have internet connection only. Sony sketch-turn your tab into a drawing board, sketch pad, canvas, and create your own scrapbook page, greeting cards, and simply let your inner artist come through and shine! This is a far better app than game apps if you are looking to kill time. Photo Director-this app does so much and take your already-proud-of pics to a whole another level! It can also make your less than ordinary picture a piece of art! iSyncr - if you are still a iTune lover and you have lots of music on iTune but you want the library on your device, this app will do the job for you. The free version will limit you to transferring 100 songs per transfer, but you can do as many transfers as you need to. Also you will have to transfer the music to the device first and then move the music files to the SD card afterwards - it's due to the whole SD card thing I talked about earlier. Yes, it's not as convenient, but it still works, and the transfer is fast. Musixmatch - this is an app that shows you lyrics of the music you are playing from your music library. It's cool. There is a function that works just like Shazam, music identifier and also displays lyrics at the same time. This app is actually a really cool music player app, so instead of using the built in music player app, I use this app as default. Crackle - shows Sony Entertainment TV shows and movies. Selections are not anything like NetFlix or anything like that, but it's FREE! I love watching Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, which is Crackle Original and hosted by Jerry Seinfeld. Avast products - they are really good app to keep your device protected, cleaned up, saves battery, and it's free! Install Avast Mobile Security, Avast Battery Saver, and Avast Cleanup. It's amazing how much junk get saved and take up your limited memory by simply browsing internet and Play Store
2|So maybe i missed something, but my tab doesmt have an ir blaster, and when i got it everything was in russian, and i got some knock off charger and cables. I think i got jiped, but the tablet works fine from whst i can tell. Just a little disapointed its aparently different than every other tab 4 on earth because of the lack of an ir blaster.
4|I bought this tablet to gift this to my mother-in-law and she says this is the best gift ever.It's very light and easy to use. She is super excited to use the tablet and is always busy with it.Her kids are all around the globe and this tablet helps us in connecting to all via skype/whatsapp.She also uses the Google Chrome for web browsing and it's really fast. I had got a tablet and the tab would freeze very often but the seller immediately replaces witha new one ....They know how to keep customaer happy! Some of the Features are as below 1.The front and back camera are great to take selfies and pictures and it's great for taking videos. 2.Downloading apps is fast as well as opening and running them. I loads of apps - skype, gtalk,facebook, whatsapp and also the CleanMaster app and clean it after I'm done using it and it helps deletes the junk files and makes the device run even faster. 3.Its lot cheaper the Apple tablets but the quality is almost the same. so it saved me $150-400 4.The reading is great and I mostly download my books straight from Google Play Books and the Amazon Kindle Store. 5.The touch keyboard is great . 6.The battery lasts much longer, too. 7.The resolution is awesome- 1280 by 800 pixel display 8.Listening to music is much more clear and easier when you put some ear buds on. The speaker is on the back of the device. 9.The quad core processor is very impressive and browsing the internet was fast and easy. 10. screen is size is perfect to use at home and to carry in the trips. Overall the tablet is impressive and it is well worth the money based on the quality and performance that I have seen.
1|Whenever using an AUX port turning volume up near max on device any song or anything will turn to static and stay that way until you unplug it. I kind of want a tablet I can listen to music through my speakers with. Other devices work fine on the Aux cables and systems, And this is even the replacement for the 1st one that was doing that... Guess I'm looking for a different tablet.
2|First of all, I enjoy the thin wafer-like feel to the tablet. The controls are situated well and the 7-inch size is perfect, especially if you use the tablet for reading a lot. The device itself is a top quality product I would expect from Samsung. The reason I gave it only two stars though is that the 8GB is clearly not enough space to run a reasonable amount of apps. Samsung loads the tablet with quite a few uninstallable apps which are not necessary and which use up a lot of the 8GB of space that the tablet has on the device. The SD card that I purchased for it, which contains 20GB of space, is nearly useless due to the fact that many of the apps can't be moved to it so the problem I'm facing now is that I'm quickly running out of room on my tablet where I'm having to choose now which necessary app I need to remove. When I first purchased it several months ago, I was able to put a few apps on it for entertainment along with the apps I use for checking my mail, getting on the Internet and reading (Kindle app). I have a couple productivity apps like a task manager app, OneNote and Evernote but beyond that, they're either all pre-installed Google apps or pre-installed apps I never asked for. Thus, as the apps on the device take up more room due to constant updates, I'm finding that I'm having to uninstall apps I need that make the tablet useful.
1|The "bloatware" pre-installed by Samsung takes a little over 4GB of the already limited total 8GB available. Purchasing a separate SD card doesn't help because Google doesnt allow you to transfer apps to the SD card - has to stay on internal memory. In fact, this is such an issue with the Galaxy Tab 4 that if you google "Galaxy Tab 4 memory issue" all kinds of help tickets will come up regarding how COMPLETELY USELESS this tablet is. I've had this tablet for a few days now and after you update the requisite Google apps, like Gmail, Drive, etc. you are left with 500MB or so for anything you might want to do with the tablet. Also discovered that when you have less than 400MB the tablet wont let you even download a small movie due to space constraints. Basically, you have the space for 1 thing non Samsung/Google at a time. If you want anything more than that you will have to uninstall the 1 thing you're currently using to make space for your new 1 thing. Ironically the memory booster app I installed took up more space than it was able to clean, because again, the ENTIRE tablet memory is consumed by Samsung pre-installed bloatware and the memory booster saw it as essential. I was very surprised by the high praise in Amazon reviews as a simple Google search turned up these problems, and they are fairly ubiquitous.
1|This tablet has significant issues. I've had it for about 6 months and am completely unimpressed. First, there is a very pronounced lag when browsing the internet. It takes forever for the page to respond and even show that the page is loading. It came this way out of the box, and goes beyond annoying to the point that it makes the browsing feature very frustrating and difficult to use. It is now having issues running basic gaming aps (Catan, Scrabble, Tetris, etc.). I have downloaded fewer than a dozen aps, and the tablet can't even deal - it closes or freezes multiple times per game. It also developed charging issues after only a few weeks and is difficult to get fully charged. There is no point to sending it in to be repaired because Samsung has the worst customer service I've ever experienced, hands down. I've dealt with a defective phone and TV with them and they are an absolute nightmare to deal with. I swore I'd never have another Samsung product but received this as a gift and hoped it would surprise me. It can't do anything my LG phone can't do faster and better. When it dies (which I don't expect to take long) it won't be replaced. Not worth the money at all.
3|This is my first tablet, and my first Android product. I am not a Techie. I don't have a smart phone and I'm not likely to need more than a couple Apps. But I travel a lot and don't like lugging around a big laptop. There are many things I like. The screen resolution, display, color, and picture quality are great. Pretty easy to use. Sound with headphones is good. The camera function is just OK. I am pleased with the ability to watch movies on or offline, access email, and download photos from my camera via the SD card. BUT! The thing comes with a ton of Bloatware that can't be uninstalled. Apps that will never be used. And every time I do a Web search, the Samsung ads pop up. Really annoying. Not sure I would have purchased it if I had known. Although the price of the tablet is decent, I feel Samsung and Google should be paying me for all the ads and junk they've dumped onto this thing.
1|Was impressed until 2 months later the WiFi/Bluetooth stopped working for no apparent reason. Guess what... warrant expired... Buying an iPad mini to replace.
3|Honestly I'm a bit disappointed. I've used and didn't care for an iphone/ipad. I currently have 2 Windows 8 phones in my house and love the operating system on a mobile platform (wouldn't touch it on a home PC of course!). I hadn't used any Androids before and figured I should at least try one out before buying a Windows tablet and becoming a Microsoft fangirl for life. I've used it for a week and a half now to give myself some time to get used to it, my son has as well. To start, the operating system is laggy. I have fairly cheap Windows phones, not even the newest or best ones. I'm not used to lightning fast or jaw-dropping speed of performance. But this tablet is frustratingly skippy and laggy when opening or switching between things. Nothing closes unless I click multiple buttons to get there to close it.. which is also annoying. I feel like I spend more time opening and closing things than I do using them. If I don't close them, well it's even more laggy. The layout is not intuitive. After a week and a half I still feel like I'm hunting for everything other than the apps on the main screen, and each task I perform on it is excessively complicated to do. I am pretty technologically savvy, this thing is just bass ackwards on a few things. Yes, it has a better selection of apps than my Windows phone. Unfortunately I don't need the 10 zillion apps it has that my Windows phone doesn't. Okay, I admit having Candy Crush somewhere other than Facebook finally is nice. But Candy Crush alone does not a tablet make. The size and weight is nice, the picture clarity is nice. They're not any more nice than any other comparable tablet would have been. The volume and quality of the speaker is truely awful compared to my phone, and my phone's isn't that great. I'm sure it'd sound better with headphones... I hope. I have given it a fair chance and will continue to use it since I've paid for it. But I won't buy another in the future unless I suddenly discover the "make everything better" button hiding in my apps. My 14 year old son also told me to "never to buy that crap again". I just do not understand how Apple and Google have the lions share of the market when it comes to mobile devices. I can only assume the Android users have never tried a newer Windows phone/tablet.
2|Even the two star rating is a bit generous. Like most people, my hopes were clearly too high. What this device's suggested capabilities are compared to it's price point make it a very enticing purchase. Let's start with the pros. 1. It's inexpensive, feels like a small risk. 2. It's size and weight are ideal. I can fit it in the back pocket of my jeans which may not seem like a big deal, but that's truly portable to me. It weighs next to nothing, and makes the Kindle Fire HDX 7" feel like a million tons. You can use easily with one hand over a long period of time with no hand or arm fatigue. 3. I'm a fan of Android OS, so that's a plus to me. Being a fairly dedicated google user makes it an ideal tablet. 4. Expandable memory, many tablets surprisingly don't offer that as an option which makes them useless to me, unless it's a 32gb or larger device. The specs say it can take up to a 32gb micro sd, but I can verify that it will handle a 64gb card without issue. Now the cons. 1. The small bezel can be annoying at times. I feel I am a fairly average human man at 6'0 tall and 190lbs, but routinely my thumb will open an app or click on something accidentally because there is literally no room to rest your thumb on the device while holding it in one hand. By contrast, the Kindle HDX 7" has about a half inch bezel so your thumb rests easily without touching anything on the screen. But to be fair, the HDX weighs as much as a collapsed star so it is not very easy to hold in one hand for longer durations. 2. The most glaring and annoying flaw by far is the WiFi connectivity of this device. It fails to connect so often that it renders using it almost pointless. I have a gigabit router that fuels every device in my home flawlessly. The samsung drops the WiFi connection every few minutes. I opted to test it on different networks (at my brother's house, and at my parent's house) and the same thing happened repeatedly. It's a clear flaw in the build of this device. After a simple Google search, I found way too many forums dedicated to the inability of the Samsung galaxy tab 4 to connect to WiFi effectively. In short, at $125 lightning deal I couldn't resist buying it, and I've regretted it every day since I first received it. Buy a Kindle HDX, if you don't require tons of memory then buy the new Fire HD 16gb or the Google Nexus 16gb. Clearly superior devices.
1|bought in feb. 2015 it's june and today this tablet decided it's not going to work anymore it froze and will not work at all.
1|Just received my tab. Will only charge to 60% not sure if it's the charger or the tab its self but not happy either way!
5|This is a really great tablet for what you're getting. I recently purchased this tablet, and I am pretty impressed. It runs smooth, even on more graphic-sucking apps. I haven't purchased a SD card for it yet, but I've still downloaded a lot of stuff and I still haven't run out of memory. I have virtually no complaints. The 7" is plenty for a great personal tablet (I am using mine as a personal tablet), however if you are looking for a family tablet, I would recommend upgrading to the 8" inch model, or a Tab Pro, for extra speed. Overall, GREAT TABLET for the price.
3|Being a previous owner on many different tablets, I have some initial thoughts about this Samsung Galaxy Tab at first. - RAM- The amount of RAM on this tablet is very limited. How limited?- 1.5 GB of Memory usage available not considering what the system software uses. I average out freely 800 MB when I'm using low-processing apps. The tablet seems to take a toll when I try to browse on Chrome with several tabs open and play music on Spotify or YouTube in the background. Regardless, for the price you get what you pay for here in this range. Either way, I consider my Nexus 7 (which is only a few dollars more) a more high end tablet. -Screen- Actually, the screen is really great all HD! One thing is the menu buttons do not illuminate. -Power- The power consumption is great on this tablet I usually play music and noticed no drainage when it comes to browsing the web and music. Video does drain it considerably. -Software- I absolutely despise bloatware. Samsung is guilty here of this one. Some of the apps can not be disabled but doesn't take up RAM so in the end I guess we can cope. If you have ever used the Galaxy phones or tabs before you'll be familiar with the user interface. -Camera- Ehh. 5 and 3 Megapixel. You are better off using your phone but comes in handy. Overall, its a good starter tablet.
5|I simply love this Samsung tablet. The only this I would like to comment on is that could they of put a better book with it. It does so many things I never could believe could be done. Every day is a new adventure, thank JP
1|Bought 2 Samsung Galaxy Tab 4s. One for my daughter. One for my son. My daughter's broke after 4 months. My son's broke after 5 months. Both were carefully taken care of and used only in protective cases. Both "died" from the same problem: inability to hold a charge or turn on. No internet fixes worked. Used different chargers, Samsung only chargers, cleaned protective port, etc. Nothing worked. Just randomly failed to turn on one day. A HUGE WASTE.
5|I recognize that I am in an era in which 'everyone' has a smart phone. I also want to say that prior to retirement, I spent 15 years in the I.T. dept. of a large company. My wife and I looked at smart phones, and particularly, at prices of bundled family plans with smart phones. We were very disappointed at how much more money we were going to have to pay to upgrade from a flip phones bundle to a smart phone bundle. We were put off by having to buy internet packages twice a month - one for home and one for phones (with a capped limit). I also questioned my friends, and discovered that all of them rarely use their phone internet, but always try to wait until they get to a free wi-fi zone to surf. For these reasons, we went with a tablet for travel purposes - a one time purchase - with no monthly bill. This is not a review to say that Samsung has the best one. But, it had all the features we needed at a price I was comfortable with. We love this tab.
3|tl;dr: Not ideal for high-end modern mobile games, very comfortable design for casual use, low on memory (get a 16GB or higher Micro SD card), was shipped two devices with dead pixels. I work in the gaming industry and I have very frequent exposure to mobile devices, but the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 was the very first tablet that I purchased for personal use. I originally purchased this device hoping it can at least run Star Wars Uprising, which I learned that it does, but not do very well, but for the price I paid, I somewhat expected this. The device is pretty sleek and lightweight and has been fantastic for watching Netflix/Amazon Videos, Email, Facebook/Facebook Messenger, and random Googling. I would recommend getting at least a 16GB micro SD card because the tablet lacks memory. Long story: The real problem follows my experience with Samsung's support agents and their lack of understanding with mobile devices (primarily their own) as well as their own policies. I've read many critical reviews on Amazon warning about their Customer Service, but you see that with any product so I continued with my purchase. My device arrived with a dead pixel and while it didn't affect the functionality and mostly forgotten, I decided one day to look into the Samsung policies regarding how a dead pixel gets serviced. My search ultimately led to me contacting their support personnel through the Samsung chat, which I was able to engage with an agent immediately. I explained that I had purchased a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 on Amazon a week ago and it arrived with a dead pixel and I while it's just a minor aesthetic problem, I was wondering if they can do anything about it. The agent didn't attempt to outline my options and went into straight into "script mode" and began instructing me to do extraneous tasks (which I was respectful compliant about until a point), such as: restarting the device, insuring the OS was up-to-date, plugging the device into a wall socket, and then eventually suggesting that I reset the device to factory settings. All this for a dead pixel! At this point I made clear of my technical background and my understanding of the standard procedures of technical support (because I do both) and was very certain these resetting my device to factory settings was not going to resolve my issue. He then instructed me to go to a URL to report my issue, which didn't load and he asked me to try to install a different browser to try again. When it didn't work he asked me to try another computer---didn't work. In the end he decided it was best that he filled it out for me, which I wish I knew was an option before spending 25 minutes installing different web browsers on two different computers. And the end he told me to take it to a Best Buy for a free replacement. This whole conversation took 40 minutes so when I was asked to fill out a survey over their service, I decided to keep it up to get back to later. I went to Best Buy and explained the situation to one of their Geek Squad personnel. He quickly knowledged my story and told me they would replace my device, but unfortunately because I bought the device from Amazon, the device they have has a different SKU from the ones they have in stock and they are not able to take in the device for exchange. However, the agent mentioned I should be able to get a replacement from Amazon without any hassle, which in retrospect I should have done in the first place. On my phone I was able to get a replacement sent to me after only a few seconds of navigating. I returned home content that a resolution was on the way, I filled out the Samsung survey with a disapointment rating, which they never received, due to an error saying something along the lines of "survey no longer valid". I really wanted to help improve their customer service by giving them my feedback with my experience so I decided to contact Support again to explain what happened. After doing so, the Support personal went into "script mode" as well and began asking me about the details about my device and attempted to instruct me to doing other things with my device even though I have already referenced my Support Ticket that should have shown that we've been through this process already. At that point I just left because I've consumed way too much time dealing with Samsung Customer Support. Amazon shipped me a new device before I could ship my defective one back. Unfortunately, the new unit had a dead pixel too! At this point I consumed way too much time that I care for that I'm just going to deal with having a tablet with a dead pixel and look into dropping the extra cash for an Apple device.
1|Mine has froze since day one. It will also rewrite things I have erased and continue to re write and add these items again and again and again. The company has looked at it and sent it back multiple times and has never found anything wrong thus will not issue a refund or product replacement. Very disappointed
4|This is a great starter tablet or an extra tablet to have around the house Pros Low cost Great size - not too big or too small Perfect for the living room or for kids to play with Can sync with your other samsung devices Runs Android System Cons Low resolution vs other more costly tablets smaller screen vs other more costly tablets Overall - if you are in the under $200 price range for tablets, don't mess with lesser known brands, get this samsung tab and you'll be happy
1|Before buying this tablet, I was aware of its poor display quality. However, the wifi and battery drain apparently resulting from Samsung's implementation of the KitKat Mobile OS renders the device useless. In going over reviews of the Tab 4, I found references to these issues. Really? Why would anyone want a tablet with unreliable wifi?
1|Be warned! Android version 4.4 (Kit Kat) created restrictions on what apps could be stored onto the external SD. Hopefully we will see if 5.0 changes it. If you thought that you would buy this tab and then get a 32-64gb micro Sd card for storage...think again. Very few apps can be moved onto the SD card. After Samsung puts all of their proprietary apps onto the internal storage, you are left with as little as 1gb of storage for your own apps. The result is a tablet with a constantly full internal storage and empty external storage. Mine filled up after adding 5 apps for work. I was unable to install anymore apps. That is pretty pathetic and renders any Android 8gb tablet pretty useless if you want to put more than a few apps on it. Go for the 16gb version or buy a Nexus 7 or newer 32gb (which is faster). Update: if you are a even little bit tech literate you can root your tablet (voids warranty) and download apps that will enable moving apps to your SD card. This allows you to fully utilize the external storage as you ought be able to. The tab still gets 1 star because out of the box, 8gb is not enough to have a fully functional tablet that enables you to use all of its features. Sad that Android went the way of Apple with their tyrannical restrictions on what you can do with your own hardware.
4|I ordered this tablet after some bad luck with other tablets. I had the Fire HDX and absolutely loved it but it would constantly restart and I just got too frustrated dealing with that so traded it in. The next tablet I tried was the Acer Iconia 8 and that had a touch screen that was not at all responsive. By the time I got my Galaxy I was over the whole tablet issue! When I got this tablet though I was immediately pleased. I should disclose that I have a Samsung Galaxy S4 already so I loved the fact that the Galaxy Tab was so similar. I immediately had all of the settings, etc exactly how I'm used to them. I was a little disappointed in the display. Going from an HDX to the lower resolution Tab was a bit disappointing, but really for what I use it for it's fine. The speed is pretty good, I did upgrade my storage immediately with an SD card (love that this is option) so I basically tripled my storage for $15. The camera is pretty mediocre. I'd rather take pictures with my phone, but I didn't buy the tablet to take photos. I use my tablet for web browsing, reading on the Kindle App and answering e-mails and texts. For this purpose it's perfect and for the money it's an unbelievable deal. Not to mention you get all of the access that Google Play and Samsung provide. I recommend.
4|I have used the original Kindle Fire since it was released. It's in a leather folio case and it's heavy. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is lightweight and unlike my Kindle, it has a camera. Not a very good camera, but for closeups, it's okay. As other reviewers have mentioned, the pictures are fuzzy. I thought I could correct the fuzziness in my photography program but I can't. I will try adjusting the camera settings and see if that helps. I DID NOT buy this tablet to take pictures. I bought it to run a program which is not available for Kindle. I have also downloaded the Amazon Store and purchased apps but keep getting a message that I need to purchase the app. It has nothing to do with Amazon and everything to do with the Google Store that comes installed on the tablet. I need to do more research and change some settings. Tablet clarity, the touch screen and ease of use make this the best choice for me. I have a digital camera for taking pictures.
4|I have a Samsung Galaxy S3 so the function is pretty similar, which helped out a lot. I love this tablet so far! No problems. However, I was a little bummed at the picture quality... the pictures it takes kind of suck (a lot worse than my S3), but I guess you look pretty stupid trying to take pictures with a tablet anyways.
5|Great Little Personal Assistant. Fast and just the right size to fit my hand. Most of the other reviews tell the story but I can add this: I use it to assist in my photography hobby among other things. The display is absolutely beautiful when it come to displaying photographs, playing movies, or watching TV. Everything on the screen can be customized to meet your needs, including Font size for the old guys like me that don't like to carry their reading glasses. The 8 GB of internal memory will hold all the Apps that I need and, YES YES it will indeed use a 64 gb card instead of the 32 gb card as stated. The 64gb card gives more than ample space for pictures, books, and movies, and if that is not enough they give you a 50gb upgrade to your Dropbox account. I found it on here for $ 139 and that is a steal for an entry level tablet like this one. PS. Battery life is excellent. Note: As a photographer I had only one disappointment with this tablet. There is an App on the market called DSLR controller. but for some reason it works with all the Samsung Tablets except the 7 inch models. Other than that, it is fantastic.
1|Bought this tab for my 10 year old for Christmas. Worked well for only 3 months, then all of a sudden the tablet would not hold a charge without being plugged in to an outlet... basically, useless Amazon refunded my money thank goodness. I would NOT recommend buying refurbished electronics. Buy this product new from the manufacturer. Their deals and specials are just as good, sometimes better. Buyer beware!
4|First, let me say the obvious; for $100 this isn't cutting edge electronics so temper your expectations accordingly. Having said that, this is a nice little tablet for the price as long as you keep it simple. PROS: Crisp display and at 7" a nice viewing area. Steams movies well with very minimal issues. Comes with quite a few bells and whistles (so-so camera, assortment of apps, and some nice features such as weather updates and news) Great for reading newspapers, books, and surfing non-graphic intensive web pages. CONS: Virtually no storage area, buying an expansion card is almost a must Not powerful enough to play any graphic intensive apps. Tried playing a simple app like Simpsons Tapped Out and it's very choppy and stutters. Not a fan of the button placement but getting used to it. Overall I'm happy with it. I got it as a handy tablet to look up information quickly without going upstairs and starting my desktop computer. Yes, it has it's limitations but I didn't spend $500 either.
5|Very Good Tablet, One of My first Android tablets besides Kindle Fire. I like this way better than the Kindle Fire HDX as well. It very fast and have allot of functionality. I also I used a Samsung Pro SD Micro card in it and made it faster on load times for software and files. The Screen is easy,clean and neat. It has a very Nice display and I don't have to adjust the brightness it s has a good brightness from factory spec, Plus all the settings and updates function properly. The Samsung Brand has a great overall reputation with there tablets and I can see why. The tablet also has some extras that are free gift for buying the tablet, also has that ability to use multiple accounts for email and Storage on the device. Plus a One major thing I wan to add is that it is 2.4 and 5ghz Wifi Compatible with Good cloud print and many other features and services available.
5|I originally bought this tablet because I needed a Hotspot for work. I didn't really care to have a tablet. After I got it, I really liked the features like wordprocessing, and the remote control feature, not to mention all the apps. It's small enough to fit in a pocket, and travels well. I also like being able to run multiple apps. I just purchased a second one for my girlfriend. I really enjoy the remote, but again, so many nifty features.
5|If you're looking to buy yourself a cool new toy without breaking the bank, look no further than the Galaxy Tab 4. I have been a long time apple user, and as a matter of fact still have my 1st generation iPhone! I as well have the MacBook pro and the 2nd Gen Ipad mini. So yah I guess you could say I was the poster child of apple. Well, a few weeks ago a family member got me this tablet not knowing that I already had an iPad(It didn't help that I didn't use it much). I happily took it due to the fact they also got me a data plan for it as well! I have never really been able to get into tablets really. For me a phone and a laptop was all I needed. However, this little guy changed all of that! First off, this is the first time I've used an android device in about 3 years and FINALLY it feels like they have caught up, if not surpassed apple in their software. Yes, of course it feels I bit weird using Android, but I'm learning to love it! Converting over makes you feel like you've broken out of the usual, and gives a feeling of awesomeness customizing every aspect of your experience on this tablet! My friends, if you've been wanting to get your first tablet, but are a little nervous, or don't know how to "Take the leap" THIS IS THE TABLET FOR YOU! I mean at only a 150$ you really don't have much to lose! Now I will say there are a few things this tablet does lack, however none of it shocks you for how much you have paid for it! First off, you're gonna wanna grab a micro SD card right off the bat. 8 gigs isn't a whole lot and really SD cards are so cheap now a days, it makes you wonder why apple charges you 100$ for 16 gigs more storage? Also, don't plan to make this your go to camera, while the pictures get the point across, 3 mega pixels isn't enough for this to be your every day shooter. All in all you really feal like you're getting your money's worth with this tablet. It doesn't feel like a high end tablet, but at the same time it does everything you want it to do at a very reasonable price, all while still feeling study to hold, and useful for everything! Plus, if you are like me and didn't know how to break into the wonderful world of android with all its feature, customisation, and "freedom", this is a great way to give it a try and see what you've been missing out on! Or if you're just looking to break into the new and big world of tablets, there's no better place to start than here! P.s. ever since they announced the iPhone 6 I couldn't wait to get it, but thanks to this tablet I think I'll be switching over to a new Galaxy phone instead!
4|My Kindle Fire recently became a paperweight when its touch-screen became unusable. I really wanted to replace it with an iPad Mini, but was discouraged by the price and the fact that the WiFi version didn't have GPS. I wanted a new Kindle reader that doubled as a moving-map GPS. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 does all that for not much more than the cost of a Kindle Fire HD. Pros: GPS! Great fit and finish Bright, clear screen Front and back cameras Small and light SD slot for up to 32GB expansion, if you can use it Includes charger Cheap accessories Cons: Only 8GB internal storage Flaky WiFi KitKat problems Review: I have a drawer full of crummy Android tablets. Anything priced less than $100 is a bad bet. Some tablets, like the Viewsonic G-Tablet, are good hardware but lack any decent software support. Others just break in a short time. I was tired of playing Android Roulette. The first thing that impresses you with the Tab 4 is its build quality,light weight and thinness. I found the screen to be somewhat better than the Kindle Fire HD: it's whiter and brighter, easier to read, even in sunlight. I bought an i-Blason cover for $8, much cheaper than the typical Kindle cover at $40 and just as serviceable. The cover includes a pen/stylus, which can help when touching small buttons. There are other bonuses, including front and rear-facing cameras. The Tab 4 has been criticized for its low-res 3MP rear camera, but it's adequate for many uses. I added a 32GB SD card. This is essential when using a large content apps like the moving-map Sygic app, which BTW is awesome. My first impression of Android tablets was not good; many just looked and behaved like overgrown phones. The Samsung version of Android, while also used in its Galaxy phones, seems more appropriate to tablet use, similar to iOS implementation on Apple products. I was satisfied by the customized Android OS on the Kindle Fire, but now prefer the relative freedom and ease of use of the Tab 4, plus the availability of both the Samsung Galaxy Store as well as Google Play. I think the Tab 4 is a very good piece of hardware, but I docked it a star owing to issues related to its KitKat OS. It has problems when using external SD cards under KitKat. Google has made external storage much more restricted and apps must be able to move their files into the external cards' /Android/data folder. While there is a button under Settings that says "move to sd card" it really moves it to an emulated sdcard in device memory. Fortunately, Sygic can deal with this problem and will move its files to external storage if you follow the steps on their website. I tried similar tricks to move Kindle files but it still reverts to emulated storage. I hope Amazon issues an update that will address this problem. Meanwhile, you only have 3.5GB available unless the app is "KitKat aware". This is a serious limitation. I've tried many apps, e.g. music players, and they won't show music files if they are in external storage. The only way I can consistently copy files into external storage is to hook up the Tab 4 to my PC and use Windows Explorer to do it. The only surefire way to fix this involves "rooting" the device or using adb, which I don't want to mess with at this time. It often drops WiFi connections. Since I didn't buy the Tab 4 for heavy online use it is an annoyance, but not a major one. Turning off all the auto and constant network scanning options (Settings/Wi-Fi/Advanced) seems to help. When all else fails, do a full shut-down and restart; once it starts to drop its connections it just gets worse. While I wish I'd bought the 8" version and the WiFi can be a pain, the Galaxy Tab 4 is the best tablet I've used so far, especially for a price not much higher than the Kindle Fire HD. I wanted to give it 5 stars, but the KitKat issues are too irksome. Until KitKat gets fixed I would be wary of assuming newer is better. At the same time I really like using it as a Kindle reader and it's outstanding as a GPS device. If you can tolerate the KitKat "features" it is a great value.
5|Just got this tablet today and can't seem to put it down. Great quality. I've spent the last month researching tablets and comparing every last spec. I went with the Galaxy tab 4 and couldn't be happier. It's incredibly fast and the screen picks up touch amazingly. GREAT VALUE AT $199, I strongly recommend!
4|I originally ordered a Kindle not knowing I couldn't get the Google Play Store. Kind of a must since it has my son's learning apps. Well it was defective so I had to do my research and picked this out. After pushing the compare button and seeing that the only difference was in the price the choice was simple since I got this on sale for $50 off. We've had it for a month and I enjoy it. It has the option of additional memory. Thank goodness because 8 GBs isn't close to being enough. That and the fact that I can't download one of my favorite games is why I'm taking off one star. Easy to use and setup. I'm enjoying watching Netflix and playing games. My son also uses the speech therapy apps his therapist loaded on it and I don't have to force him to actually use them which makes me quite happy.
1|Having multiple iPads in the house and other Android devices also, this tablet is a HUGE disappointment. The removal of the menu button is a step backwards from a design perspective. However, the huge issue is performance. This tablet can not stream video, which was the main reason for purchasing it. Netflix stutters and the video quality is poor. I have compared it side by side with other devices streaming the same video (live streams, Netflix, Youtube, etc.) and it is definitely the device, not the internet connection. Doing some research on the streaming issue, I have found many other complaints about this issue with no resolution. I am not sure how this tablet has such high ratings!!! I am going to try to return this for a refund. I am hoping that it is possible with Amazon. So disappointing...
5|I bought this tablet for my girlfriend for Christmas this year. I didn't know much about these things so I did a ton of research and all signs pointed to Samsung as the reliable and trusted choice. Neither of us have any Apple products and I didn't want to spend Apple money so I went ahead and got this one. A month later now, she loves this tablet. As a full-time graduate student she's always looking up the latest information, working on group docs, watching movies and playing games. The Kindle didn't offer any help when it came to getting work done and the Nexus tablets just didn't seem to hold out long enough. This one is the perfect balance. I'd highly recommend this tablet to anyone that wants versatility, functionality, and reliability all at a more than fair price.
5|I looked into a few different 7" tablets before buying a few months ago and this one definitely had the most bang for your buck. The rest of my family got the Galaxy 3 Lite and I'm so glad I went with the 4. The battery life is awesome, which comes in handy with how much use it gets. The screen quality is gorgeous, it's easy to use, and has pretty impressive memory even without an SD card. My tablet has basically replaced my phone when it comes to apps and games...I also use it as a reader for school and have my textbooks downloaded onto it. I even have a word processor and office apps for when I don't feel like lugging my laptop around campus. The Galaxy 4 is an amazing investment for what you get out of it. I would definitely recommend it!
5|I love this Tablet. I went from a Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 to this beauty the Tab 4. I couldn't be more satisfied with the durability and the sleekness of the screen. The multi window mode is what prompted me to buy it. But the the Tab 3 also offers it. But it looks much better on the Tab 4. But to honest Samsung has made it harder for us to choose as the consumer which Standard tablet is better. I must say it was either this or the i pad mini. With a quad core processor I don't even know why I considered the ipad mini. I've always enjoyed Samsung Products. The only downside of this tablet is the speakers. They were badly placed. But other than that. I love it!
5|This is my first Samsung tablet. I can honestly say, it's amazing! The colors on the screen are totally breathtaking. I have download many applications, from Amazon Kindle to the prime and many others. I am able to stored and watch my movies, T.V. shows . The store capacity is great. I thank my husband and my kids for a wonderful birthday present. I love my new tablet. I had previously an 8 inch table, but this one, makes up for the loss. It has so many great features, tons of useful applications . This is a great tablet to have and worth every penny. I have installed: Kindle, Amazon Prime Videos, Droid TV, Show Box, Netflix, and many others.
4|This is my second Android tablet, and third tablet altogether since I was a Day One iPad owner. This Samsung is solid, and unlike my earlier rooted Nook, it does NOT crash several times a day. While I have added an SD card for data storage, the built-in 8 GB device storage is really inadequate since I have not been able to transfer all apps to the SD card, so I wish I had bought one with more built-in storage. But that is just about the only complaint I have so far. I like the 7" size since it is very easy to hold and slip into my purse while providing enough screen real estate to read most things easily.
2|I bought the Tab 4 7 for my kids as a Christmas present. The major downfall of this device is the internal storage, as many on hear have mentioned. 8 GB of internal storage is ridiculously low when you consider the OS itself takes up over 3 GB. With the device running on Android 4.4 KitKat, writing and moving apps to the micro SD is restricted, making the expandable micro SD slot useless. The only way to work around not being able to write to the SD card is to root the device, therefore voiding the warranty. Not happy. Might return it and just upgrade to the Tab S2 or Ipad with more internal storage.
1|I bought the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (7-Inch, Black) in August, for my wife. This gets a three stars for size and appearance. The size is nice but at a price. If your hands are large your fingers will reach around the tablet and activate whatever you happened to touch. The rating go down from here on. The Home, back, and what they now call the "Recent key" are fixed, they do not rotate with the display. They are not lighted so forget it if you plan on using the tablet in the dark. There are too many useless app on it that can not be uninstalled. I installed a 32G SanDisk Ultra Plus card. The slot for this is really cheesy. At first I thought is was broken, but finally got it to work. If you run anything with a lot of graphics it will be slow. That also applies to a large database that I tried to run. Movies may lag or be jerky and the sound out of sink. It will completely stall on occasion while playing FreeCell (by Brainium). It may take up to five minutes to recover from this. While the Nexus 7 (old version) we have is larger and heavier it out performs the Galaxy Tab 4 by a large margin. Amazon also receives zero stars for deliver on this. It took seven day to ship less than 200 miles.
5|The tablet is excellent. Fast, nice screen resolution. Very portable and convenient The colors on the screen are vivid. PerfectRecommended
1|I bought this for my mother because she likes to play candy crush games. The tablet seems to be struggling with everything it does, from scrolling, opening apps to playing games. I think the 1.5 GB of RAMS is too little and the processor is underpowered. And the bloatwares Samsung puts on there is using resources and eating away at the little space it has. I would suggest to pass on this tablet.
2|This is a great tablet in a lot of ways and the price is good considering what you get. But there are a few drawbacks which would lead me to not recommend it. First, the camera is mediocre at best, which was surprising considering how good the camera is on the Galaxy phones. But the biggest issue I have with this tablet is the internal storage. It only comes with 8GB, which is actually only about 4GB when you factor in the space required for the system to run. So you only have 4GB of internal storage to work with, which gets eaten up very very quickly with apps and photos/videos. So you will need to purchase a memory card to expand your internal memory, factor that into your purchase. But even with that, it doesn't really solve the problem. You can move apps to the SD card, which frees up space, but you have to do it manually every time you download an app, it doesn't happen automatically. And even with that, certain apps (like the pre-installed Google Apps, most of which I'll never ever use), can't be moved to an SD card. My son has had the tablet for just over 2 weeks and the space problem is constant, even after purchasing a 32GB SD card.
4|I have recently purchased this tablet to replace my galaxy tab 2 7.0. I am completely satisfied with this. It's light, speedy, and over all the best gallery I've used to date. Glad Samsung dropped the proprietary charging plug. I installed yahoo Aviate launcher and that is smooth and very nice as well. I would definitely but this tablet again!
2|My 'desktop' screen is filled with thing I do not want, do not use. You cannot delete anything that is pre-installed. That to me is not user friendly.
3|1. Speed of switching between applications, browsing, etc. This tablet is not very fast. I have a Note 3 that runs laps around this thing. I have never owned a tablet before (well I had a Nabi 2 for my daughter before this) and I guess I thought that the Tab 4 would run as well as my Note 3. I, admittedly, was a bit uneducated on it all and I assumed that although my phone runs at a ~2.3 ghz processing speed (quad core) that this tablet's ~1.2GHz (quad core) would run similar since it has less to run (i.e., no PHONE parts - no need for a SIM card or that software, idk. I guess I shouldn't assume I know anything about technology lol). This tablet is sluggish. But really I bought it for my 4 year old, so it is okay for what it is used for. But I will not be using it in any of my college classes and I do my internet shopping on my Note 3, because everything is faster. 2. "KIDS MODE" If you bought this for the "Kids Mode," the first thing you might notice is that Kids mode does not come installed. It is confusing, because if you look in your list of "all applications" (under settings), you can see the application there (with a dinosaur icon). However no icon on any of the home screens on the tablet itself or under installed applications. I did a hard reset and still it did not pop up, as I read online that some people were able to do a hard reset and the app icon popped up after that. This did not work. After some more goofing around and internet research I realized that you have to go under the "widgets tab" in the app drawer, and scroll through the list of widgets and it is there (although if you don't update the software first, it might not even be in widgets yet). When you long press the widget to get it to the desktop it just looks like an icon. It does not look like you would expect a widget to. From there you load it. I like the "kids mode" app itself, except you can only have a LIMITED number of apps. I was hoping to just load every single app my kid has ever liked to play in there for her but I had to pick and choose. Also, if your kid button smashes and hits the power button, they can get out of kids mode accidentally. This is problematic because of what I will mention in 3. 3. Multiple User Profiles This software allowing multiple user profiles is kind of neat. However, there are some annoying things about it. For example, you can ONLY run "kids mode" from the "owner" user profile. Because of this, if your kid does what I mentioned in 2. above and gets out of kids mode accidentally (normally when you hit "exit" properly, the parent has to enter a 4 digit pin to actually exit), they end up in your profile and can navigate wherever they want to. Other annoying things about the way multiple user profiles work: - You can't lock someone out of the Google bloatware, such as the google search bar, etc. - You can't share pictures from one user to another in the gallery. Samsung tech tells me this is a "security risk" for the owner of the tablet. SO, if you are going to use this table for a "RESTRICTED user" (i.e., an older child who would not want to use "kids mode"), and you want to set a wallpaper/lockscreen to a picture, you have to install some sort of photo sharing app (like This Life by Shutterfly, or I think you can download Dropbox), load the picture to the app, and then pull it from there into the restricted profile. But you have to load the app of course from the "owner" profile (which is kid of tedious), then uninstall it if you don't want your kid messing around in dropbox anymore. Unless you run a launcher (like Nova) and hide the app from within their profile, but that is getting pretty complicated, and it is suggested that the tablet's native Touchwiz launcher works best if you're using multiple user profiles. - You cannot run Kids Mode from within a restricted profile. This is what I was hoping to do with the tablet. Have my daughter's own icon that she could click on, then she'd launch her user and select the only icon I would have available for her - "Kids mode" (until she gets a little older anyway). Samsung tech support tells me that there is no workaround for this because it would be a security risk to allow multiple users to run the app. I'm not sure how that is a security risk if you just allow the app to run off a shortcut of the icon in the "owner" profile, which you need a password to make any changes to anyway. It seems like they could make it so that you can launch a shortcut of the app in a restricted profile or make it so that you can only make changes from the user profile to the kids mode app itself. I'm sure that would not be that hard of a software tweak to make, but it is a "security risk." 4. Asthetics - You cannot change the color of the menus that I have been able to figure out. This is nitpicky, but the blasting orange/blue on white background is pretty ugly to look at. On my Note 3 I can change the background to black. IDK why you don't have this option on the tablet. I assumed little things like this would be fluid from device to device, which is why I blindly chose a Samsung tablet to purchase for my daughter. - It feels a little more like using an Apple device with the limited amount of options they provide you with in the settings wheel. Also, you cannot choose to view all the settings options in a list, you have to use their swipe "tab" system. I don't really find these easier to use and I think it slows down the tablet swiping from tab to tab. There is a 2 second delay before the tablet fully loads the next setting tab, which is very annoying. I have reset the tablet twice hoping that somehow this would run smoother, but I have not had any luck. - You cannot resize the widgets to a size of your choice in the Touchwiz launcher. If you use the galaxy apps widget or the weather widget which are automatically available in the widget tab within the app drawer, it takes up like half the screen! 5. Other things to mention... - Developer options are accessed by hitting the device serial # 6 or 7 times. This is just more of an FYI for anyone who wants to know. - This tablet doesn't sense my 68 year old mother's fingers! For some reason her hands can register my Note 3's touchscreen, but not the Tab 4's. You might want to take that into consideration if you're buying this for someone old with poor circulation. Overall, this tablet is decent for someone with more patience than me. I think it is slow and would just pay more for a faster tablet next time. It is no fun to shop on and if you are running apps that load a lot of info (like amazon store), the app crashes. I had a Nabi 2 previously for my daughter which had a 1.3 GHz processor that seemed WAY faster. I also liked the way the kids mode worked much better on the nabi and the way the parent/kid modes split. You could also automatically launch the nabi in kids mode OR parent's mode, which, to my knowledge, you cannot set the Tab 4 to automatically load into the restricted user profile (which would be dumb anyway I guess since you can't have your kid use the Kids Mode in their own profile - which still makes no sense to me). This tablet comes with almost no bloatware, which is nice. If I could go back again, I'd get a more expensive tablet with a faster processor I guess (although the Nabi 2 runs at about the same so I'm not sure why the Tab 4 is so slow).
5|This Tab 4 WiFi tablet is just what I was searching for in the 7.0 model. I have used and tested thoroughly and found that it does have so many overall advantages. Now as a techie, I tested this tablet out to great lengths and below I will list what I have found to be the Pros and Cons of this amazing device. (I purchased mine NEW, it was worth it new rather than Refurbished or Used, for the money, I believe worth the small amount extra). If you are looking for: a lightweight tablet that is very easy to hold in one hand comfortably and you want a basic and easy to use tablet, then consider this tablet. While it does not have every bell and whistle installed on it, it is a good choice for: Checking emails, Getting Online, Looking at Pictures, Watching Home Movies. Here are the Pros and the Cons below: PROS: 1- WiFi connects easily and the signal is good in most places I tested. And I received a STRONG WiFi signal on this device. In fact I have a very, very strong WiFi signal even in the back of my home (furthest from my router). Here is a tip: If you ever have trouble with your WiFi Router, unplug it for 2 minutes and then plug in again. In about 2 minutes, it will reset itself and should work wonderfully. 2- The advantage of having a SD card slot that will hold up to 64GB. 3- Small and lightweight. Comfortable to carry around and place in backpack or briefcase easily. 4- Micro USB Port - This is common in most tablets these days, but the older Tab 2 line did not have micro port but the propriety wider port. 5- Screen clarity – Excellent, the colors are bright and the text is very, very clear. For me, I found this screen easy to read eBooks on and view internet pages. 6- I had a Tab 3 7.0 WiFi only and sold it to a friend, bought this one and find that it is a much better tablet. 7- This tablet runs so so cool! In fact it runs much cooler than other tablets I have used! It runs from 70 degrees to 89 degrees basically which is great. Even when I am on data or WiFi and downloading apps etc, it just BRIEFLY goes up to about 99.5 or so degrees. Then it goes right back to about 88-89 degrees. This is a very safe range and is normal. What I was testing for is to discover if at any time this tablet ran over 106 degrees --- it did not. When a device gets too hot, it will turn off and re-boot and when this happens often, it will damage the device. **Having a low heat on this device is my favorite thing about this as I believe that this tablet will last a long time and not have to re-boot etc. 8) Lightweight and small enough to read my Kindle books and eBooks with comfort! When I hold up this tablet to read a eBook, I can hold it comfortably for a long time. 9) Fits so well in my purse or backpack, so easy to take places with me. **I use a Finitie Tab 4 7.0 Cover/stand (Slim style) that I bought here on Amazon for 13 dollars and it is wonderful to travel with. CONS (just one that I have found): - Low internal storage - this tablet comes with 8GB internal storage (advertised). Because the OS takes up room, apps etc, take up room, the tablet just has about 4.7GB in the internal storage. This is not good because when you install an app from the Playstore, it goes onto your internal storage not on the External SD card. (The external SD card is meant for personal files such as your music, photos, home movies, etc). **The GOOD NEWS IS: If you do not install a lot of huge games onto this tablet, you will probably do just fine with this storage. Bottom line and Summary: Would I buy this tablet all over again? Yes in a heartbeat! If you are looking to buy a MINI TABLET, this is the one that I recommend to you as I love mine! Since I am a techie, you can ask me any questions in the comments under this review.
4|This little tablet is great, if you know what you're getting. The driving factor that lead me to getting this device was Web browsing. I wanted something bigger than my phone (LG Optimus G Pro), and something more convient for times when I don't want to break out my MacBook Pro. I debated, and almost bought 8 inch version, I'm glad didn't. This is just the perfect size for me. I can browse online and comfortably view any website in landscape mode, while a quick flip to portrait mode makes typing a breeze. I downloaded Big Hero 6 from the play store to check out the video quality and was impressed, but not overwhelmed. Granted I did buy the SD version, opting to save a few bucks over the HD version which would certainly look better. The speaker is "okay" but certainly gets the job done. I recommend headphones when your outside the confindments of a quiet room. Besides the guy sitting five away at Starbucks probably isn't interested in hearing the YouTube video you're watching. What I find to be the most impressive aspect of this device is the battery life. I've run the device for two days on a single charge with moderate+ use. This includes updating software, downloading apps, browsing, watching downloaded videos, and streaming YouTube. I almost passed on this device to go for something with better specs. I'm glad I didn't however, as this does what I want on budget friendly slate. I would have given five stars instead of four if not for bloatware (which I understand comes with every device, even iOS devices). There's just two many Samsung apps that I'll never use or be able to get rid of. Thankfully this device has expandable storage to make up for the space the usless apps take up.
5|I purchased this for one reason - to use as a GPS with a specific general aviation flight tracking/mapping program. But in addition to this purpose I got a whole tablet with which to play. I do look e-mails on it and I do some web searches. For these purposes it works just fine.
5|Very good product. just as expected and shown..
4|I purchased this tablet for Valentine's Day for my bf and he got to use it for one day before he ran out of memory. He went to Walmart and purchased a new SD card. He then tried to move some games to the SD card and got an error saying "Unable to move to SD card". So we called Samsung support the 2nd day of using this NEW tablet and they did all the troubleshooting they could. They couldn't figure out what the issue was and blamed it on the SD card EVEN THOUGH they had already tested to see if other files/photos could be moved to the SD, which they COULD. So basically Samsung tech support was USELESS and in denial that it was an issue with the actual tablet. So yeah, returning it to Amazon. Looking at iPad minis now. Update: After setting up a return, we decided to try the tablet one last time with a different SD card. We WERE able to move some games to THAT SD card, so we switched the SD card again to the first one that we had issues with and we WERE able to move some games into it. It turns out the problem was with certain games. They DID have an option to be moved, yet they did NOT move. We decided to keep the tablet and delete the bad unmovable games instead. I still do wish that Samsung would have caught this, but obviously the tech support needs more training. If you do end up purchasing this tablet, just be aware that your favorite games may NOT be able to be moved to the SD card even if they have the option that says MOVE TO SD CARD. This becomes a problem because it will fill up the internal memory fast and cause other issues.
5|This is a great tablet for the price, and has expandable storage available through the micro SD slot. I have my Tab 4 7.0in running with a Samsung Evo 32GB card, and it works flawlessly. The response time and accuracy on this tablet seems to be much better than my and older Tab 3.0. I am not sure why Samsung list this as only 32GB expandable for Tab 4 7.0 and Tab 4 8.0. I tested it with my 64GB from my Galaxy S3 and it worked. I have even heard that some people have been able to get 128GB cards to work. With the 7 in screen its size is smaller than the iPad Mini, the 8 in Tab 4 model screen size is about the same as the iPad. However, from my research the Tab 4 8" and Tab 4 7" models have identical processors and internals (the 8" model does have a larger battery 4450mAh vs 4000mAh), and since this was for my daughter I didn't see the need for +$90 for the slightly larger screen. I was trying to find a decent smaller size tablet without breaking the bank. The new iPad mini 16 GB is $300 and 64GB is $500!! This Galaxy Tab 4 7" was on sale new for $130, a 32 GB card was $20, giving me 40GB total memory for $150. This gives me over double the storage capacity, for half the price. In my opinion I prefer the Android OS anyway, due to its better compatibility across different media types and sources. I would recommend this tablet to anyone looking for a small quality Android tablet.
5|I was looking for a backup tablet for my iPad mini. Priced cheaply and coming from an established manufacturer, I decided to get this. I thought that coming from the iOS, I'd have a hard time adjusting to the android interface. I was wrong. It was really intuitive and easy to use. Over time, I also saw how much more customizable and open the Android OS was. I have more apps and it actually runs faster than the iPad. Moreover, being able to expand the memory to 64GB via an SD was a really big plus. So, what happened was, I replaced the iPad with this and now, it's my backup tablet with the Samsung Galaxy as the primary one.
2|I owned the galaxy tab 3 7 in and loved it. This one is smaller, battery does not hold a charge as long, can't maintain a strong wifi signal so streaming a video or tv show, or movie is a waste of time. Will not buy another one
4|A good product for anyone. It does everything that I want it to do. It is worth the money,buy it
1|The 1st of these tablets we received stopped charging after less than a month. It was returned and a new tablet was sent on 1/30/15. This was received the 1st week of feb and on 3/5 we could no longer put the USB cable in the port to charge it. It is no longer in the return window. My grandson has his second broken arm since September and this device helped entertain him on his frequent hospital trips. It seems like this is a very short return window for a defective device Our i pad has had no problems and is 3 years old. Very unhappy with this samsung device.
5|I waited a while to enable me to use the device before writing my review. I recently bought a Lenovo 7 inch tablet, which I was initially happy with. That failed to work suddenly and Lenovo would not honour the guarantee. My loss. My wife swears by Samsung and so I took the plunge. Nice tablet. Easy to use with w very responsive screen. Sure, the internal memory is not the biggest and much of the 'bloatware' cannot be moved to an inserted SD card. BUT, most of the 'bloatware' can be disabled and this will aid faster performance. Around 90% of the apps that I have downloaded CAN be moved to the inserted SD card, thus leaving plenty of space on the internal storage. Around 4gb of the 8gb internal is used up but the remaining 4gb is more than adequate for me. Sound is sufficient from the mono internal speaker but when earphones are used the sound is really quite good quality. Camera is only 3mp but again this is sharp and more than adequate for 'snapping' and videos. Nobody can realistically expect semi-pro shots from a tiny lens and sensor. Having the front facing low res camera makes Skype easy too. I like this tablet.
5|SAMSUNG does it again!!! quality product, fast, elegant, but defininetely if youre buying the 8GBversion make sure you have a 32 or 64GB microSD because the system by itself uses 5GB.
4|This was a gift for my husband and he got me a 10.1 tablet. Both work the same way. Pros: Smaller than a laptop so easier to travel with. No worries about overheating with the solid state drive Fairly easy to use and finds wifi networks easily Battery life is pretty good I like the airplane mode to turn off wifi / bluetooth so the battery power is saved GPS on this item eliminates the need for an additional gadget Many apps to do almost anything you need. Can add a bluetooth keyboard if you like Cons: I don't like the file system. I would rather be able to be able to see the separate folders inside the device / sd card instead of just seeing what files were added when. The device doesn't hold much data and even with expandable micro sd card, it is very small. I would expect to see these tablets start being able to hold 100+ GB of data in the near future for a similar price. For my use, these won't be replacing my laptops any time soon. I am used to watching video on my laptop and I have noticed that the video quality isn't as good on the tablet.
5|I pre-ordered the original Ipad and had owned it since launch day. I loved it. I carried it everywhere with me and felt like I had arrived in the future. A short time later however ( too short ), I was already disenchanted with the IPAD I had once loved so. I now hold a strong grudge toward Apple and all it's products. The IPad was so hard to add music and pictures to as it lacked an SD memory card slot. I despise ITUNES and the time it would take to add pictures and music to the IPAD. AINT NOBODY GOT TIME FOR THAT! Flash forward to the present. My once beloved IPAD is now a paperweight. I was dissapointed as I was expecting my first baby and had hoped to update family, friends and have tons of pictures and music flowing freely. My amazing husband surprised me with this beautiful addition to our electronic family. Yes, it's smaller than the Ipad. I appreciate the smaller stature of the Galaxy tab. They have larger available, but i can attest from the IPad, your wrists will appreciate the smaller, lighter Galaxy Tab. Plus it is easier to transport the Galaxy tab with a baby in my hands too. The Galaxy Tab has a beautiful display. I have all he apps I need, want and more. The speakers are louder than those on the Ipad. The Galaxy Tab also has 2 cameras for picture taking/video. I wish it had a flash though! The processor is super fast and I can have multiple tabs / apps open and switch back and forth without crashing! The SD card can be upgraded to a larger size to hold lots of precious moments. Easy to transfer and manage between multiple devices. I will never Ipad again! Basically, great price, great features, great product. Highly recommend!!!!!!!!
5|Compact, handy and does its job. If you root it and get rid of the bloatware then its even better. Awesome battery life and to all those wondering, its 128gb compatible.
1|Device won't charge higher than 3%. Bought it for my daughter for Christmas. Return window closed 15 days ago. Should have just paid more and gotten the mini ipad.
1|Coming from someone who has owned this tablet for over 6 months (not 2 days or a month) - do NOT buy this!!! There is serious lag just in web browsing! Another reviewer mentioned that they had problems with streaming and quality and I can agree 100% with that. We have even started having problems with the charging, sometimes it won't charge at all and other times - no problem. The tablet will sometimes say 100% charged and you unplug it, it will drop to 30% other times it will be on the charger for several hours and not have made progress, another time is it will say a % other than 100 and when you turn it off, the screen will say 100% charged. I'm just terribly frustrated with this product right now and wish I could return it for something else, but it is too late for us. I'm somewhat techy-savvy and I've wiped out the running programs etc. and still have had continuous lag issues.We really had to save to buy this and it is very disappointing.
4|I think these are great for kids. I bought 2 of them for mine and they absolutely love them. Pros: Pretty cheap tablet. Runs ok most of the time .Very portable. Runs most games without any lag.External sd support so you can pop in a sd card to add music and movies to it. Battery life is great as well. Cons : 8gb of memory ends up being like 4gb free for the user.Games are getting huge in size so my kids have to constantly uninstall stuff to make room for new stuff. Sometimes it'll lag but what can you expect from a $150 tablet. Screen isn't the best but again price. Overall, I'd definitely recommend it if you're getting this for your kids or if you are a light user whos only going to be using it for simple stuff like web browsing and YouTube. If you're a power user I'd definitely recommend a spending the extra money on something a little more powerful and with more internal space. I have the Galaxy Tab S 10.5 and it is an amazing tablet.
5|Love - I mean, really LOVE this. It`s sleek and pretty responsive. The setup was easy & Samsung threw in some goodies (I`ve already claimed the Google Play credits!). I would have like to have a different color (I got the white one), but since it`s going to always be in a protective case, I don`t really mind that. The touch screen in a little too responsive, but I`m still getting used to it. I like this tablet a lot & dont regret my little splurge in getting it for myself as an early Christmas gift :-) Another thing: I came super close to getting this at WalMart (because of the seasonal layaway option). When my local store was out of them, I was lucky that I found a MUCH more reasonable price here. In the end, I paid less for the tablet and a case/keyboard. I don`t know yet about playing games on this one but I have blogged, used social media & had a few other apps running at the same time & didn`t get in lagging or hanging.
5|Bought this primarily to read eBooks / Kindle. I found myself using it for much more, especially web browsing and using the apps. Easier to read and better than using my phone, when using WiFi. Excellent bridge between smart phone and laptop.
5|I love my tablet, I have been using it for about two months now. I haven't run into any technical issues. Originally I got this so that I could read e-textbooks since my phone couldn't display them, too small a screen size. So I opted for this, downloaded the Kindle app and voila! It displayed all my textbooks! Why not the Kindle tablet itself? Simple enough: I trust Samsung to deliver quality products. This met my expectations, the design is nice and it is very light in my hands. It gives me the versatility and familiarity of an android device. This has expandable memory up to 32GB, so I don't have to stream or rely on the cloud as much since I can just download them onto my MicroSD. Usually I would carry around my laptop at school, added weight, but since buying this I find I don't need to take my laptop. I can use browsers, and word programs thanks to Google. This tablet makes it all possible! I love it!
1|It worked wonderfully for 6 months; then, refused to recognize internet connections. I tried everything suggested on the internet. It is now worthless.
5|I wanted a Samsung Galaxy Tab4 & had looked locally, but Amazon's price was much lower. I ordered & received it in such a short time, I was truly amazed. Enjoying the Galaxy every day. Thank you, Amazon, for fair prices and daily specials!
1|The device is defective well not charge or power on at all
5|Given as a gift to my wife and she is delighted. She did not want the expense of another smartphone as I have one while hers is a feature phone. Decided to surprise her with this tablet and she is very happy. Purchased a case for it which protects it, but she is still able to place it in her purse. Debated about the size but it appears I made the right decision as she is able to take it with her, and so many places have wifi available. I have commented to her, I am thinking of dropping my smartphone and getting a small tablet myself. Phone data charges are absurd, so a more reasonable approach would be a small tablet for app use, but w feature phone for use on the go for phone calls and some extras. A way to beat these cell phone companies who are charging too much for their services. So I would recommend this tablet to others.
1|Bad and poor refurbishment. Ugly and wrong purchase. Need a refund back on this product, if I can send it back Thanks Stanley
5|So far so good. Screen is a definite up grade from the Tab 3. The quad core processor makes running and switching apps alot crisper. Had around 1.2gb if RAM which isn't bad. Has around 4gb of usable HD dive space and I wish these came as 16gb not 8gb but oh well this tablet is ment for people on a budget. KitKat seems to ruin great on it with Samsung's tuchwiz interface. Only minus I've found was that they down graded the rear camera to 3mp from 5mp, I guess they figure people don't use it that much idk. At $139.99 this is a great buy and definitely worth the price. The package did arrive a day late and it arrived in a box with no packing material at all cushioning it on its ride from Arizona to Pennsylvania but everything seems ok. Also the build quality is the standard Samsung plastic but it looks good not cheap.
1|Had the Tab 4 7" 2 days now, it might be a good tablet if all the junk apps were off it. Trying to deal with Samsung Customer Support is a joke. They can't even help navigate Samsung's website. It's going back
5|Love this thing. I needed something bigger than a cell phone for information. Needed email, contacts, documents and other material for work I could carry around without needing 10 inches or more of tablet. No trouble adding apps from Samsung and Google Play. The things that ultimately drew me to this tablet were, size, price and micro SD slot. I know the cloud is fine, but I have been in business meetings and needed some information and couldn't get it from the laptop due to poor connection. Absolutely need an SD card or flash drive and can't take the chance my needed information is out on an inaccessible cloud. Next was size and reading something like a spreadsheet is painful on a postage stamp screen. Did not want a big tablet, I have one of those and love it for different reasons, and 7 inches is just right. Using it steadily for several days, adding apps and exploring functions. The only downside was registering the product. You need the number off the box because the number on the back of the unit is only half the number they want. To get the MAC address I accessed my router to get the information. My router has all the MAC addresses. Couldn't find the numbers from the System Menu inside the unit. Other than that, everything else is good.
5|I ordered this Tablet for my mother for Christmas and she absolutely loves it. It has a higher quality camera on both sides than I expected the the photos come out crystal clear even in bad lighting the pictures come out great. She's mainly used it for games and most if not all the apps play smoothly with no lag what so ever there are a lot of features on it that still need to be explored but from what I've seen it's highly exceptional. A side note as well I was hesitant to purchase the 7-inch version thinking it would be such a small tablet but in person it's actually a great size especially to take around with you at all times. The only thing I would suggest if you decide to buy this tablet or any for that matter it is more than worth it to spend a little extra to get a case for it as well.
4|I love this tablet. I typically use my cell phone for everything, but I wanted something bigger without having to get on my laptop all of the time. I own a kindle fire and I wanted something new. I am a stay at home mom for the time being and when baby is sleeping, I like to catch up on my shows. The picture quality is wonderful and clear. I downloaded multiple apps and they downloaded fine without any problems. I also like that you can add user accounts to this and each account can be personalized. So, I can set up my own email account to receive notifications under my account and my husband can download his stuff under his account. This tablet pretty much reminds me of a bigger version of the Samsung galaxy s5-s6 phones. I gave this tablet 4 stars due to the camera quality. If you are in a room that isn't super bright the pictures look grainy. However, if you are a person that doesn't really use the tablet for taking pictures then this should be perfect for you. The battery life on this is really great. I binge watch shows sometimes (don't judge me lol) and the battery will last for 2 days. If I am just browsing the internet and not watching shows the battery will last even longer without being charged.
5|I purchased this for my wife. Mostly this is for her to store her pictures of the costumes she makes.. better to display them on this than her Galaxy S3 phone. Since she is already familiar with the Galaxy S3 phone and the Android operating system is almost identical. The newer features of Kit Kat version of the Android OS will take a little time to get use, but she is already loading stuff on Tab 4. We went with the 7" version because the wife has little hands and this fits better than the 8.4 version of the Galaxy 8.4. She also didn't want the 10.0 of either of the Tab 4 or Tab S (too big for her). She basically will surf the web thru the WiFi; display pictures and watch movies on the Tab 4. This is perfect for what she wants to do!
4|I've had SO many problems with Fires in recent months that I'm overjoyed that this works at all. It comes with a small paper instruction book, which is unusual these days, and it's especially helpful for those without constant wireless access. I'm having a hard time getting books in and getting them to run with text-to-speech, which is why I haven't given it 5 stars. Apparently the Kindle app doesn't allow TTS, and I haven't managed to get the Google books to play with Samsung's TTS very well. There are *2* TTS engines available in this unit, and it can play a sample of each so that a user can pick a preference. Another negative is that the 2 non-tactual touch buttons on the front of the unit are positively evil to find in the dark, so definitely not a 5-star unit.
1|Died after 4 months... won't turn on, even in recovery mode. Screen flashes on for a second but it never powers all the way on.
5|this tablet has a very beautiful display. i was looking for a budget friendly tablet which can be used by my parents for viewing there vacation and grand children pictured. this is an excellent entry level tablet with a decent performance and specifications. i added 32gb sd card and loaded all the photos and videos. experience was very smooth and photos very looking very sharp and crisp. i tested this tablet for streaming videos from youtube and browsing and everything worked without any lags. this tablet is pretty light and comfortable to hold. i would recommend you get a good smart case along with tablet. considering the price i highly recommend this tablet for anyone looking for a budget friendly tablet.
4|I have an iPad Mini (original) and an iPhone 6 and wanted to get some experience with the an Android device. This is really a great product so far - seems fast and the screen resolution is pretty good (but I haven't been exposed to really high resolution devices for extended periods of time). I like the form factor, it is easy to handle. But I have one MAJOR problem - it says it comes with the IR blaster but it does not. This is one feature that made me decided to get my first Android device besides the great price. It says in the Samsung description on the Amazon product page that it has the blaster as one of the features - just happens to be the feature I bought it for!! I will return this device after the pain of setting it up.
5|After looking into many different tablet options, I finally settled on the appealing galaxy tab. Then I came to the decision between The galaxy tab 3 or 4. Seeing the jump up to the newer 4 was a do able price difference I settled on the 4. I can say I am very satisfied with this purchase. I can also safely say I am happy with the ease of use of the 7 inch. The screen display is wonderful, the system runs as smooth as possible, and I love all the high-tech features. (Like Smart Stay which keeps the tablet on as long as you are looking at it). I love the fact that the tablet has expandable memory as well. ( that is not an option on kindle). In all truth this is a wonderful purchase in all aspects. I will never lose my trust in Android.
5|I bought this for my mom who is a Jehovah's Witness. My goals were to provide her a digital way to read her scriptures and acquire official media without having to carry around a full size laptop. As a tool to share her scriptures and documentation it's been amazing for her. In addition she uses the SD card slot to download small films and music onto it. Finally, she has utilized it to record events to show to members who have been unable to make it. She has not had any complaints and tells me she loves it. I hate that she calls it her 'ipad' but whatever, if she can't see a difference between it and others in her group who use actual ipads, I say it's doing a good job for the price.
5|We bought this after our Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 started dying (there are known issues with the charging of the battery with the Tab 2, and ours finally gave out) Our 6 year old daughter uses the tablets the majority of the time. I was extremely surprised when I turned on the tablet to find that it is much faster than the Tab 2. The processors are great! And it's extremely user friendly. I had it set up in 5 minutes with our info, region, name, and so on. And within 10 minutes my daughter was downloading apps with ease, zooming through changing the background, taking pictures, everything. The camera is also much better than the Tab 2. For a tablet, it's very crisp and easy to use. We love this tablet!!!
5|I have many different types of tablets in my house and this is the best one. I purchcased this tablet for my 10 year old daughter six months ago, along with a harty case. It has been great!! I love that it has an micro sd slot. I put a 64 gb sd card in it. She can store full movies. The only limiting factor is that every app has a small amout stored on the internal storages so that can limit how many apps you can have. Despite this, we have been able to get most the apps we want. It is easy to have apps stored on the sd card to save room. Many other devices do not have this capability to add storage. Resolution quality is great. I wish it had a flash. I recommend this product.
5|Only problem I have is that it seems to take a really long time to charge . But the multi user is fantastic!!!!!
5|Best value tablet for small children. With the option to add an external memory card, you can't go wrong with this tablet. The tablets build quality is great. Nothing less than any other Samsung product I have come across. We put ours in the Otterbox Defender case so we wouldn't have to worry about drops or scratches. So far it has stood up well and the kids love it. With the Google Play store and Amazon book store this is a no brainer. The battery lasts forever. Our kids have yet to kill the battery during use. Pros: Build Quality Price App selection Cons: Not eligible for the full amazon prime Kindle Unlimited
5|A very sleek and well made tablet with a fabulous bright screen. Hoped to be able to use it with my SEEK LWIR imaging camera since the port faces the right way but not possible. I'm guessing the microUSB port doesn't supply enough power. Although SEEK indicates that Galaxy Tabs 3 or newer tablets will work they do not. Software loads but doesn't see the camera. The tablet is much brighter than my Tab 3 and the swiping actions are improved. Great battery life and plenty fast. I think the sound seems better as well. Galaxy tab 4 is a real winner as a tablet I can slip in my coat inside pocket since it's slightly smaller than the similar iPads.
5|I more than pleased with this tablet, it's everything I needed for work, entertainment, and convienence! Without a doubt, I would recommend this to anyone over any other tablet. I find that if you need a tablet for business or space/storage reasons, it's pointless to get a 10.1, when the 7.0 and 8.0 both are nearly as capable as their larger counterparts. Overall, I haven't even ran into any kind of problems with my tablet at all! It's a wonderfully productive, entertaining, stress-relieving, universal-remote controlling(Built in IR sensor allows you to use or make apps that interact with TV's, VCR's, Etc. Won't be disappointed! Happy Holidays
5|This is a great value for the money. I bought this mainly to have something to easily carry around and read ebooks. However, this does a lot more. I bought this instead of the iPad Mini and I'm glad I did. This is much more value for the money, since you can upgrade the memory, and the app store is excellent. I bought this about $30 cheaper at a wholesale store. For the Galaxy Tab 4 and memory card I have about $200 invested. This should last me for a long time. Bottom line: I can recommend as a good buy and good value. This is my first Samsung, and based on this purchase, I'll consider their phones and other tablets in the future.
5|It has been total 4 months of using this tab and haven't had any problem. I'd recommend this a 5 stars.
5|I got this for my 14 year old son and I might be buying another one for myself too. It's very good. I tried all the features before giving it to him (he was annoyed that I did, LOL...anyway) and I am just amazed. It's a lot better then the new iPad mini (sorry for namedropping) and it's more than half the price. It's really good. I still can;t get over the fact that android devices allows SD cards. Apple charges you double or triple depending on how much GB size you want or need. I will surely buy myself a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. IT'S VERY FAST, EASY TO DOWNLOAD APPS. VERY EASY TO USE. EVERYTHING COMES EASY WITH THIS TABLET.
4|This is a good product for a good price. The entire purchase and delivery experience was completely satisfactory and the tablet has met all expectations.
3|Up front disclaimer: having owned many android, apple and windows devices (from all the big manufacturers), I am partial to none. I think they all have pros and cons. I was excited when I saw this tablet was coming out, with a quad core processor, a better display than its Tab 3 predecessor, and of course Android 4.4. It looked like a much better version of an affordable tablet. It's ok. It's not bad, and I wouldn't rate it as such. But I did a physical comparison between it and the 2013 Nexus 7, which in my opinion is a valuable comparison since they are both on the same version of Android, and are both lower priced 7 inch tablets. The Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 doesn't even come close. This is for one big reason - lag. My guess is that this has everything to do with Samsung's custom Android skin, TouchWiz. There is noticeable lag when using the browser and other apps. There is noticeable lag when switching applications. Not all the time, but enough to make it a nuisance. This was not the case on the Nexus, which was snappy and smooth in all my use of it. Other points of comparison - the screen is not nearly as vivid on the Tab 4 as it is on the Nexus. The camera seemed slightly better on the Nexus, but really, it's a tablet... I'm not concerned with that so much. I do like the physical home button on the Galaxy but do not miss it having made the switch to the Nexus 7. All in all, for the specs on the Galaxy Tab 4, it should really perform with no lag. It's disappointing to say the least. It is definitely not a "bad" tablet, and if you just want to spend 200 and no more, then you'll probably get the most out of it. But for not a lot more, you can get a much better experience in my humble opinion by getting the latest Nexus tab.
3|Great consumption device for reading your kindle and watching youtube. Great resolution screen. Cons, only 8 gigs of memory, and even using a micro sd card as storage, a lot of my apps do not allow to be moved to SD card. (this would of course be a problem with the some or most app developers not allowing the move to SD card) And with just a few small apps the storage gets full rather quick since the 8 gigs already has system apps etc. So it is limited when you try to install a huge app such as a game that is sometimes more than 1 gigabyte. But other than that it is really a nice tablet. But
5|This was very well spent money. I purchased Samsung galaxy tab 4 in October 2014, and I've been using it every day since than. Battery life is decent, it lasts ~16 hours, 10 hours active using (internet surfing, playing games, using camera). Size of keypad is perfect for me, it demands using both hands, but it's very easy and convenient. Photos are good, even tho there is no flash. I use it mostly for Internet browsing, shopping, a little bit of business, watching movies and playing games. Downloading and installing is pretty fast. This is one of those things that I would definitely buy again.
1|Tablet came defective, looks great and has no wear however bluetooth and wifi won't turn on.
5|I am SO pleased with my purchase of the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. I replaced my iPad with this as I needed a smaller, more versatile tablet. I am so happy I did! I prefer the Android operating system and am so happy with the ability to view multiple screens at a time. I mostly use my Tab for reading, social media, and some research for my graduate school program. In addition, when I registered my product with Samsung, I received a Google Play gift card as a thank you for my purchase. This product has exceeded my expectations! I am officially a Samsung fan.
1|I got one with charging problems ! !!! It does charge when it wants! I dont understand !
3|The tablet itself works very well. Lighting is sufficient, although I wish that there was a higher mgpx camera as well as a flash. I had a few issues with mine and ended up having to get a replacement. 1. After a week, would no longer charge with ANY charger, not even the one it came with. 2. Would not show up on y computer at all in order to take files off. 3. Keyboard was not mapped properly. After I get my replacement, I will have a better chance to look it over and make a better review.
1|Well, I liked all the positive reviews but, I did read some of the reviews that said the Galaxy stopped charging after a short period. Sure enough, 32 days of mild usage and blame....nothing when plugged is. Tried different chargers, still nothing. The problem is in the connection port. Fortunatly for me, I was right at the last day for returns through Amazon. What perfect customer service! Refund went quick and I send the Galaxy back...... but I do wonder what would've happened had it broke a week later.
4|We have both an iPad and the Samsung Tab 4. I am very impressed with this tablet. We tend to lean towards apple products but I thought I'd try the samsung tablet for a change. It's quite similar to the iPad. The only issue I've had with this tablet is some apps seem to malfunction which may have something to do with a software update. I prefer the simplicity of the iPad but the samsung is way more customizable. Other than that it's been a great tool for the workplace and classroom. You won't be dissapointed!
4|I can't give this a 5 star because I got too used to looking at my Nexus 7 and I can notice a difference in the brightness and sharpness of the screen. The Nexus 7 screen looks slightly sharper and brighter and of course more responsive but one of the biggest thing the Nexus 7 is missing is a simple Micro SD slot. If the Galaxy Tab came with a comparable screen, this would be a five star review but aside from the minor complaints, once you get used to looking at the screen, you'll love this tablet.
5|I am very happy with my Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (7.0). I love the way it feels and I am very impressed with the battery life. It has been very reliable and the processor speed is quite fast. I also enjoy the countless number of apps available to me through the Google store. I continuously use it for keeping track of the time and temperature as well as picking up my emails. This model is not too big yet it is easy on the eyes too. I am so happy I decided to purchase this wonderful product.
4|Another Great Tablet from Samsung!!! I had the Tab 2 and absolutely Luved it!!! This new one is also no sloch. Great screen and terrific apps. I wish there wasn't so many built-in apps that I didn't use, but,what are ya gonna do? The tab 2 was rooted, so I could attach a flash drive or a keyboard, This tab 4 is not rooted. Other than that, the Galaxy Tab 4 is Awesome, like a mini computer. Don't hesitate buy it. Thanks.
5|Excellent, love it. Fast, responsive, dependable. Great screen resolution. Design wise it's great too. Makes full use of the screen space. Recently bought the Dell Venue below for my wife http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00FFVYSE8/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B00FFVYSE8&linkCode=as2&tag=hocivfd-20&linkId=4DTLMZP53UYIHGYF Look and feel is better in my view :)
5|Satisfaction. Use this device for development- perfect.
4|I upgraded from the tab 2 and so far its great. My only complaint is that 8gb is a joke. 4 is taken up by bloatware so you're severely limited on how many apps etc and if you read a lot you will be forced to store everything in cloud which is extremely annoying if its WiFi only. Otherwise its light and very easy to handle. Battery life is good but I keep it in powersave and no Bluetooth etc.
1|I had this tablet for 3 months before it stopped working entirely. It was clunky to begin with, constantly needing to be refreshed and rebooted. Then all of of sudden it wouldn't hold a charge. When you spend this much money on technology, you would like it to last close to two years. Only lasting 3 months, with minimal usage, is completely unacceptable. Worst device ever!!
3|This is an ok product. I'm super happy with my Galaxy phone, but if it weren't for the price I would buy an iPad mini before this. The sync features just aren't as good with Google as they are with Apple and the UI requires a slightly higher order of resource to be fool proof. My 3 year old can navigate to get his videos going, but beyond that it's a bit tough.
1|Does not have IR blaster. Not as advertised. Cannot be used as a remote control.
5|At first I wasn't sure about the size (7") because I thought it was too small but I think it's actually better for my child to handle. It's also small enough to slip in a purse if we have to be mobile. It has an app for kid mode which I love because it lets you set parental controls (time limits, blocking sites, parent report at the end of the day etc.) but still allowing full use of the tablet, not just certain programs. There is nothing that I don't like about my Samsung.
5|This tablet is super amazing. I got this back in March and it works flawlessley. It is perfect for streaming music and watching videos on Youtube. The HD display is absolutley stunning on Netflix. I was watchimg Wildest Islands and the colors of the water and the all the trees on the beach were very vivid. I highly recommend you buy this tablet!
5|After fighting for months with my Nexus 7 legacy 2012, this Samsung tablet has been a blessing. Regardless of all the updates that Google did, countless factory resets, trying different performance improving apps, I came very close to throw my Google Nexus 7 against the wall. This Samsung Tab 4 7", right out of the box, worked like a dream!
3|I love samsung galaxy devices, ive used plenty. This one is my least favorite one. The pros is the decent screen size and the look of the tablet. The cons are the atrocious battery life and the compatibility of apps. I could not even download amazon to the tablet. The tablet is good for reading but its lacking the qualities of its cousins.
4|The Tablet is quite nice. My problem is with me and the ravages of time. This is an 'Android' device, the first one I tried. I have i-devices and Kindles and a google netbook, and PC and Mac laptops. I am pretty ancient, pushing 80. There is too much to learn with this device, for me. Plus, I don't like the childish icons for most of the apps, maybe silly, but it has meaning to me. I can see the appeal it must have to youth. Youth I ain't.
5|I purchased and received this item within a short amount of time. It works perfectly for what I need it for, which is basically reading books and doing homework as I work to get my degree. I have had no problems with it since owning it. This thing is proof that you do not have to spend big money to get a good product.
5|Absolutely great! Very fast, and I use this with many apps on it at once. Has an auto correct system that can be very useful at times. I have done things like drop this down a flight of stairs, or onto a running treadmill, and it has yet to crack. I've had it for 4 months now and it still runs like new!
1|Full of glitches and bloatware. Can't save apps on SD card. Lags, skips, sometimes slow to respond. Very disappointed. Gave away to my daughter and bought a $70 tablet for myself that works better than this one. Save your money folks; you can definitely do better if you shop around a little more.
4|I traded down from the Tab S 10 inch because I just didn't need the Cadillac model, and being a laptop person, I didn't need that much tablet. The Corolla model was fine with me. It's fast enough, clear enough, and responsive enough. I have no complaints. For the price it's the perfect tablet.
5|I favor Samsung for their great quality products that don't beat you over the head in price. Kit kat android is awesome, the new keyboard has emoji and the numbers on the very top of the main keyboard which is so convenient, the display is great, and i love my galaxy tab to pieces.
5|I love it, sold my iPad mini for this! i love the fact that you can go through your files folder, unlike apple products. store my music, pictures, and videos in different folders, and arrange my documents and PDF's for school. Very good device and battery life is pretty great too!
1|It started out good as gift for my son's birthday...missed the window for returning device after wifi stopped connecting. Very disappointed. Stuck with device I can't fix and doing factory reset swiped all apps so basically worthless for us. Can't access Internet or even turn on bluetooth. Online forums have suggestions but the more complicated ones outside my expertise.
5|I bought this product after spending time looking at many different tablets offered by other companies. I originally purchased it as a device to keep me entertained during my long flight to Europe. I have owned the product for over a year now, and although it was expensive, I think I have gotten a great value out of it. I use the tablet mostly as a device for reading books through the pre-loaded Amazon Kindle App, but also sometimes use it just to play games or check up on my fantasy football team. Advantages: This tablet runs on a very advanced, but easy-to-use android operating system. I did not have a very hard time adjusting to the way the system works even though I had been using Apple products for some time prior. The battery life of this tablet is also very good, lasting for about eight hours under heavy use, which includes playing games, reading books, reviewing school materials, etc. The product is also very light, weighing just a bit more if not the same amount as my phone. I had a few questions when setting up my tablet and called the Samsung support team. They were very helpful and actually took control of my tablet remotely in order to answer my questions. The team is always standing by, and that is a great comfort. Disadvantages: I have noticed that this tablet is hard to read in the sunlight. I have taken it to the pool in order to read a book, and found it difficult to read unless I was sitting in the shade. I have yet to drop this tablet, but the fact that it is so light somewhat scares me to the point that I am not sure it would survive the fall, so I make sure to be extremely careful. Overall Assessment: I chose to give this tablet five stars because I absolutely love it. I have not once regretted my purchase of this product, and would be more than willing to recommend this tablet to both my family and friends.
5|PROS Build Quality Battery Life Expandable Storage Portable CONS Camera Somewhat laggy performance 7.5 It’s a mostly solid performer with quality, is very typical Samsung with an all plastic construction and a fake leather back that still feels like plastic. Despite it’s plastic construction it feels very solid and sturdy with a very nice amount of weight. Samsung has also trimmed down their use of chrome on the Galaxy Tab 4 line up making the design look much more aesthetically pleasing. As the name suggests, on the front is a 7.0 inch display with a resolution of 1280×800. It’s not super high resolution so pixels are noticeable, but it’s certainly far from a bad display as it’s very bright with good color reproduction, easy to see outdoors, and has great viewing angles. Internally it’s being powered by a 1.2 GHz quad-core processor, 1.5 GB of RAM, and 8 gigs of internal storage which will run out quickly unless you augment by micro SD expansion. They’re very mediocre specs and the overall performance throughout the OS is passable with very few hiccups. Graphically demanding games are still playable but it’s certainly far from buttery smooth. Just like the rest of the tablet the camera is nothing to write home about. It’s a 3 megapixel fixed focus camera so photos are very low resolution meaning you won’t be able to zoom and crop due to the lack of detail. It does fairly well with plenty of light but once you take it indoors photos become grainy especially in low light and with no autofocus the camera struggles to take clear shots. The biggest highlight of this tablet is the battery life. It’s packing a 4,000 mAh battery inside and it lasted me about 2 days under heavy usage as I primarily used the tablet for gaming with some light web browsing and social networking. At the end of it all I wound up with slightly over 7 hours of screen on time which is quite impressive so I have no doubt this tablet could last between 3 to 4 days with average use. The Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 ships with Android 4.4.2 KitKat out of the box with Samsung’s TouchWiz interface. TouchWiz is still TouchWiz, but the version on the Galaxy Tab 4 line up is much more slimmed down. Many features found on Samsung’s more high end offerings like My Magazine and Air Gestures are not included, but all of the more useful features like multiwindow, palm swipe, and smart stay remain intact. It’s small, portable, and cheaper than Samsung’s PRO line but it isn’t without it’s shortcomings.
1|I Ordered this tablet as a graduation gift for my brother. After 20 minutes of setup, my brother set it down and checked his phone. When he picked the tablet back up, the internal LCD Panel was cracked (no damage to the body or glass of the device, in fact we wouldn't let my brother use it until he had applied a case and a screen protector), the top half of the screen was moved to the bottom half, and the top was black. So I contacted customer service, was refused a replacement, but offered a repair. I didn't want to chance sending a defective device in multiple times, so I asked if I could there was any way I could get a replacement. I was given a ticket number and transferred to executive customer care. It rang twice and hung up. So, I called back, offered up my ticket number, and was transferred again. I spoke to a rather rude representative, who insisted that because there was some sort of physical damage to the device, the warranty was void, and I would have to pay for a repair. I explained that there was no outside damage to the device, the problem was obviously internal and not the result of any misuse. He insisted it was void no matter the source of the damage, so I pulled my copy of the warranty and asked him to show me where it said that any physical damage automatically voids the warranty, no matter the source. He pointed me to clause A of the section of what is not covered, which states that any damage resulting from misuse voids the warranty. I explained to him that my brother was using the tablet like anyone normally would, and pointed him to clause B, which states that any damage is void, unless caused by Samsung. Since the damage was internal and not from misuse, it would have to be a manufacturing fault, meaning Samsung was at fault, and it was covered for at least a free repair. He then pointed me to Clause G, stating that "defects caused by operation" were not covered, glossing over the "improper" part of that sentence, as well as the fact that that clause refers to software. I pointed this out. He insisted that his information was correct. I said he was acting upon interpretation and taking phrases out of context, and asked to speak to his supervisor. He said that they both use the same resources, I would get the same response, and hung up. Anyway, I kept calling and eventually ended up with a free repair, so I'm going to send it in tomorrow, but if anything goes wrong on their end, or they deem it "irreparable", they'll contact me and give me my "options", which probably means they'll hold it unless I pay $50 to get it back. I am never buying Samsung again. Spend a little more and get a Nexus 7, trust me.
4|The screen is bright and the colors are vivid. I am able to use a 64 GB sd micro card with no trouble even though this tablet is only supposed to use up to 32 GB. You get about 4.7 GB of internal storage, but between phone and internal storage, you really get 8+ GB for applications. I am able to move applications to internal storage to use the internal storage too, something that I couldn't do with newer versions of cyanogenmode on my old tablet. I am able to remote-control it from my computer using Team Viewer. There could be more memory. Even though 1.29 GB looks like a lot, the OS, built-in applications and installed applications use it up. If I really scrub the memory, I can free up about 500 - 700 MB of the memory, but it quickly goes down from there. The bluetooth audio works great until it loses its connection after the tablet has been asleep for a while. The pairing is still there, but it has to be reconnected. The best cover I have found is the Barnes and Noble cover for their Samsung Nook, which is the same device, just with a custom, simpler interface. I like this Samsung's interface well enough that I don't want to root it. It has plenty of functionality, though it doesn't have the sheer number of setting found in cyanogenmod. I am not quite proficient with closing the split screen, but it is nice when you want to look at two applications at once. The default keyboard is sized for a phone, not a tablet, so it is quite small. The wireless-N connectivity is pretty fast, but it won't necessarily use the full amount of throughput that you get from your internet connection. I have 200 Mbps downstream and my tablet reaches over 60 mbps. I know that devices hooked up to wireless like my laptop can go at the full speed, but the tablet's speed is quite respectable. The camera is not the best quality, but I have heard that the default android camera software is old and not the best, so it might not be the hardware. I read that a lot of android phones have very good cameras but the software keeps the camera from its full potential.
4|My husband gave me the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0" for Christmas. He purchased it at Best Buy and it came bundled with a very nice Belkin case (in black) and a 16GB SD card. Not having very good WiFi access, I have mainly been using this as an e-reader, using the Kindle App. I have a Kindle Touch, which I love, but our temporary living quarters does not have very good lighting, making it difficult to read my Kindle in the evening or at bedtime. Compared to the Kindle Touch, the Tab 4 is close in size. The Tab is longer and the Touch is wider. Weight-wise they are close with the Tab (maybe) being slightly heavier. The screen on the Tab is larger, which for me, is not necessarily a plus. The Touch has the nice edges around the screen, which make it easier and more comfortable to hold in one hand while reading. The Belkin case helps a little but I have purchased an additional case that came with a wireless keyboard that offers a good place to grip while reading. The downside is that it adds weight. As far as reading in the Kindle App, I'm very pleased. Of course it does not come nearly as close as the Touch does to reading from the pages of an actual book but it's not as bad as I thought it would be. It offers options to change the background and text colors. I find that reading with a black background and white text is easier on the eyes in dim lighting. The page turning is basically the same. I actually prefer the Kindle store on my Tab or my phone (Galaxy S4) to the Kindle itself because they show book prices in the list view. If I'm shopping from my Kindle, I have to go into the book's detailed page to view the price. As for the other applications on this device, I haven't had much change to try them. I am typing this review and have written several others using the Tab with the wireless keyboard, which I purchased here on Amazon (NEWSTYLE Removable Wireless Bluetooth Keyboard and Protective Case). This makes reviewing much easier, since my regular computer is in storage. When I have better WiFi access I will be excited to try other apps and games. This seems to be a great little device. The e-reading capabilities alone are worth the price.
4|Overall I like this tablet, but I've had a few issues and am exchanging it for another one to give it one more chance. 1) At first the battery life was low, so I had to write to Samsung and they replied with a lengthy email with a lot of links...in the end that seemed to work. 2) When I first fired it up, wifi/internet was very laggy and I was disappointed. I put it down for the night and when I started it the next morning it downloaded the next version of KitKat OS. That seemed to help. Then later in the day it downloaded yet another version,4.4.2. Weird that it didn't just come with 4.4.2, unless I got a used one (???). 3) Wifi is weak even one room away. Ipod touch 4G and Ipad mini are better than this in the sames rooms at the same times. Sometimes wifi stops and I have to turn it off and back on again which seems to fix it. 4) My latest issue is that when I plug the tablet into a home or car stereo, the sound is very low, even with stereo and tablet volume all the way up. When you do set the tablet volume up, the sound becomes very scratchy like a distant AM radio station. I looked for internet answers, bought a new cable, tested my Ipod touch on both stereos (which worked fine, with both cables), did a hard factory reset, and spent 1/2 hour on chat with Samsung. The chat assistant said it was a tablet/stereo incompatibility. Highly unlikely since every other tablet/Ipod/Ipad I've run through these systems sounds fine. Then she said it was bad speakers...again, the radio/mp3/other device sound is fine. At least she tried. She asked if I tried different apps...I had...games, mp3, Google player, etc...all had the issue. (By the way the headphones work fine at all volumes, as does the bluetooth link for sound to an external speaker). I am now exchanging it. If the next one does the same thing, I'll give it a 1 star and get a refund. If not, I'd give it a 4 star. It is not super speedy, but I'm not a power user...mostly mp3's, email and internet browsing. I do wish I could get a 16MB version as the OS uses about 3.5 MB. Definitely get a 32GB SD card...unfortunately not all apps can be placed on the SD card. _________________ updated review 3/5/15: I received a replacement unit promptly and the same sound issue is resolved with this new one. I would give it a 5 star rating if the wifi reception was a little stronger and Samsung would provide latest Android version. Overall a good unit.
4|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4's rear facing camera has a problem taking detailed shots, like the information sticker on electronic devices. After two puchases of the same model, the same problem. I understand it is only a 3MP so, well. The Galaxy Tab 3's camera was near perfect. This is one beautiful device, though. The colors, the colors of the display, whew, they just make me drunk, they are so good! It does everything, games , videos, photos, notes, Google Search, Google Play, books, internet, cameras, research, stereo, music and more. I had the Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 and I liked it especially for the comfortable shape and the slightly better cameras. The Tab 4 is squarish in shape, thinner and rests comfortably in your hands also. My Tab 4 has 8GB installed, so I added another 16GB. And the way I load apps and info, Im at least going to need a 32GB later. (just heard that you can use a 64GB card!) Hmm. It was suggested by another user to upgrade to the Tab 4 8.0 for more memory, screen size & resolution, and larger SD Card contents. But I said, nah. I have large hands and this is a perfect fit, just what I wanted. I have not tried the competitors tabs because they were expensive and the Tab 4 did the job w/o the high price. The new design, speed and memory are definetly up to par. Very easy to set up, e-mail and an offers from DropBox to save your data in case of loss and an offers from Samsung for free stuff from the Google Play store, not bad. The beautiful thing about the Google Play Store is they will honor your purchses in case you get a new device,(Just-In-Case/My Girlfriend). I especially like the Blutooth so I can wirelessly control my optional keyboard and speaker and the Tab 4 can act as a remote control,too. The test I use to check out a machine is to benchmark the loading (turning on times)running large games to check for lag, color correction and smoothness, and the ultimate camera test, (night shots-they must be clear!). In essence Samsung has done it again. Jus sayin' Thanks. (Right now - 7/20/2014 There is a war going on! The price has dropped $30.00 on Amazon!)I give it 4 stars due to the camera.
1|I got this for my husband. He hates all the advertising which he is constantly having to delete (multiple times with each use), and the fact that the screen jumps around unpredictably. If he wants to go from the vertical to horizontal, the picture totally changes to something else. This came highly rated but is actually very frustrating to use.
5|Got this for my mom. It fits in her purse and she absolutely loves it. She plays games on it, watches netflix.... Amazon shops...It is also very easy for her to navigate. One very happy mom thanks to this tablet! She stays glued to her new Galaxy Tablet!!
1|I have had this tablet for about a week and already it shuts down by itself and then when you try and turn it off it wont shut down. The android wizard always stops working. Not happy with this product at all. It honestly shouldn't even get a 1/2 star.
5|love this tablet. clean, simple to use interface. easy to understand and complete tasks. works efficient without lag. just wish it had 16 gigs of storage, but otherwise is a great tablet. do not have to worry about the freezing and crazy os issues.
3|The Size, price and overall quality rates a "5" but there are some problems. I wish they made a "Pro" version with the 7" screen. Great Tablet but with these problems . .. I just received the TAB 4 7" today (to replace TAB 3) and its WiFi performance is still poor. Sitting in my Kitchen, I have "5 bars" (wifi) on my notebook computer and my Galaxy S4 Phone but the TAB 4 can't maintain a connection from this location. It requires much closer proximity to the wifi access point to work satisfactorily. I don't understand why they can't make the WiFi work as well as it does on my old stuff from 5 years ago ??? - They moved the speaker to the back and it has very low sound output compared to the TAB3. Even when connecting a good Altec Lansing speaker that I have used with the TAB3, the output is low. I never ran the volume at 100% on the TAB3. 100% volume is necessary for most occasions with the TAB4. - Some applications don't work. The Menu button (bottom) left now requires PRESS-AND-HOLD to bring up the Menu for applications . . however not all applications work with this new requirement. I have found 3 apps that I can no long use and 1 of them is critical and may not get updated by Leviton, our security system manufacturer. This isn't a problem with the Tab 4 itself, just a inconvenience when operating systems change and apps don't keep up. - The screen still does not scroll smoothly on long web pages - a performance problem. After pointing out its problems, it is still the best choice for my use because of the size and general quality.
4|No issues, but the small amount of internal memory is problematic for a modern Android system. The current minimum internal memory really is close to 32G needed due to Google handcuffing the use of SD cards in newer versions of Android.
3|Bought this to replace my 1st or 2nd gen (not sure which) Kinlde Fire HD that began to freeze up when I used the keyboard and finally quit completely. Note to Kindle owners: After I had the new tablet and figuring I had nothing to loose I hit the reset to factory settings button and now my Kindle works perfectly and most everything had been saved in the cloud. The Galaxy is a nice size and pretty fast. Goole part of it is nice at times. Nice to be able to speak to it and have it talk back with the answer. What I don't like is how the icons move around, you set the pages up the way you want and after some use they seem to rearrange themselves. I' m sure that to the younger generation this is all 2nd nature and I will figure this out given enough time but the Amazon products just seem so intuitive and I guess I got spoiled. I just wish Amazon would spend more time developing the products they have instead of rushing out the next new thing. The fire phone was a great phone, basic, but for a couple hundred bucks and the option to buy it unlocked and not have a contract created a real value. Too bad they didn't stick with it. Anyway, I give 3 stars for not being very intuitive and not much in the way of tutorial. However, if you grew up with this format the Galaxy may be a a good tab for you. The Galaxy tab is a great size, pretty fast, and Ilike the Goole part of it. Great to to be able to speak into it and ask a question and have it talk back to you. Pretty handy at times.
1|I don't understand how anyone can use this thing. The touch screen is so insensitive, I'd have to bang on it to register a "touch." My stylus that works beautifully with other tablets simply wouldn't work with this one (again, unless I banged hard). When I was reading a web page, the screen would suddenly disappear, and something unrelated would pop up. There is a button (one of three) on the bottom of the device (as pictured here) whose only function seems to be to cause a pop-up window that essentially says "this button doesn't do anything." I am not kidding! (Samsung apparently used to use this button for some purpose that they've discontinued. Unfortunately, they didn't deactivate or re-purpose the button; instead they decided to use an obnoxious pop-up tell you that nothing is happening. I know this doesn't sound real, but it is.) Worse, this button is positioned such that, if you use the tablet in landscape mode, the edge of your hand tends to activate it unintentionally. There were other frustrations as well. Bottom line: I couldn't return this tablet fast enough.
5|I purchased two Samsung Galaxy Tab 4s to make them kid tablets. I added Armorsuit Military shield screen protection and NEWSTYLE shockproof lightweight tablet protectors and they have been the most incredible thing for the kids. Because it's android I have Google play that matches my account and we have not had many limitiations. They have primarily been using these for their preschool studies using ABC MOUSE, but they also use them for games and YouTube kids and Minecraft PE and art. They have been fuctioning well for 14 months of constant use and kids toughness. One even survived being washed under the running faucet! (The protective foam helped) These have been powerful enough and versatile enough to not give us any headaches, and many hours of peace, as well a solid educational and artistic start. These are awesome for travel too. They don't have removable batteries but they do have easily accessible SD card ports so you can load them up with kids favorites. Samsung has a native app called Kids Mode that is fun by itself and integrates cameras and media very well. It blocks certain apps it feels aren't for secure enough for children like regular youtube or purchasing apps, but thanks to youtube kids it's no longer a problem. We also have used Kids Place by Kiddoware as an app for the the kids tablets too. Also since these are Samsung tablets they are great for mom and dad to use when they aren't.
5|Absolutely love this thing. I use it in the medical field to look up patient information and to have notes readily available. I like that it has a MicroSD slot where I can store all of my music, notes, and documents. Fits in my white coat, my scrub pants, and even my jean pockets very well, which makes it excellent to have on rotations since every spare moment to study counts! The battery life is EXCELLENT. If I forget to charge it one day, no big deal, it'll last me two. Though, charging it every night is a safer bet. Things that make it so affordable: lack of flash light; no automatic focus on camera; relatively poor quality cameras on front and back; screen resolution. All of these are NOT IMPORTANT. Seriously, if you need to take a photo, use your camera, or phone. Don't be THAT GUY who takes pictures with their tablet. Nonetheless, it is nice to have a camera on it, just in case you want to snap at something interesting, which I've never had to. So who cares if it's poor quality or doesn't focus automatically. The screen is supposedly, not as "crisp" as others, but I find it to be indistinguishable from any "retina display" out there. It is also extremely bright, if you want it to. Brighter than my Galaxy S3. Obviously still difficult to read in direct sunlight, but doable. The speakers are pretty descent for a tablet. Overall, it was a GREAT investment, especially for the price.
5|She loves it! I got this for my bride for Christmas, along with a fancy pink case. I haven't added her music to it, but she most loves the note taking and calendar. It is the Wi-Fi only version, so it doesn't work everywhere. We are shifting from Outlook Calendar to Google Calendar because it works on our phones and computers, and her tablet. I really like Outlook's popup with sound, and I wish I had some simple way to configure Google Calendar to do the same. That Lady loves being able to see her appointments on her phone when finding a time for another. Conflicts realized later make her unhappy, and when momma ain't happy... It's cool and it's Android, and that screen is awesome! The fact that she can control the TV and TIVO with it is a bonus! That's what I got it for, and I was surprised she hasn't even tried it yet. As a geek, I like Android architecture. One of these days I'll write some Android apps and want them to work on this tablet and our phones. There are lots of apps, which is good. I don't do crApple. They are built for those with much more money than good sense, so very glad to support more reasonable economic models. The cams are ok, but there is no such thing as a decent camera in a tab or phone. Get a real camera with a 50x zoom if you want to take decent pictures. For web conferencing / video phoning, this will work ok. UPDATE: 1/25: I tried to use this outside today, and the display is not bright enough to use, even in the shade. Other than that I like it fine. I got it so my wife could use it with TV/Tivo. To my surprise, she hasn't done that AT ALL. Newp, she loves it for entering stuff into Google Calendar. We're ditching Outlook Calendar for a web calendar. The G-cal notifications are sucky, but maybe will get better. Maybe. I also raised a weather station, and web-enabled that, so using an App to access that. Pretty cool. Liking the idea of the tablet better each time I goof with it. WebCam is next? Who's that knockin' at my door?
3|I bought this just as a cheapy tablet to use for watching movies and light internet browsing. I currently have an s5 phone so I figured this would be perfect to use when traveling. I do like the tablet, but it does have some bloatware and limited internal space. I would not recommend for someone who wants to install a lot of apps and games as you will run out of space. I did install a sd card that I use to put videos on from my playlater account. If you don't know what playlater is you should google it and purchase it so you can record videos to your sd card. Anyways back to reviewing this table. The screen is really good and makes for a great video player! However samsung thinks its a good idea to put the speaker on the back. The speaker on this sounds clear but even on the maximum volume setting it can be hard to hear. Build quality is good and its very light to hold. The camera sucks on it (not sure why they even have one) and battery life is pretty good. I wish the back key and app key would light up like they do on the phones. I also wish it had touch feedback when using the back key or keyboard (the little vibration the galaxy s5 makes when touching the keys). If you need a cheap tablet to use for movies and internet browsing this is perfect, if you want lots of games and apps look for a tablet with at least 32gig internal storage.
5|I give this tablet a 5 star for me. When I first got it, I almost wrote a horrible review. It was confusing, didn't work like my other tablet running the exact same flavor of Android (which was also a Samsung) and seemed underpowered. Now that I given the tablet the benefit of the doubt and worked with it for a while...I really like it. a lot! The screen is really bright..sometimes too bright. The processor is not going to make your hair fly back, but I will be lying if I didn't say that it was my own fault for over-loading the memory with multiple apps...that is just the nature of the Android OS right now...only certain apps have permission to put information on the handy external SD card. So, the internal memory gets full and then slows down the whole thing. It is a great size for games and reading...but my favorite thing is to have it as my work tablet...I usually carry pages and pages of documents and schedules which all fall out of the binder or the post-it notes fall off the sheets. With my Tab 4, I upload everything to my Box or Evernote account and have everything with me. If I have to copy notes quickly or duplicate something, I snap a picture and let one of the apps make it searchable. I will admit that it has taken me a while to get tablets involved in my work life, but this little guy made it very easy.
4|Over all it is a decent tablet. As someone who works in the tech industry its a little outdated but is still a solid cheep tablet. Its a little under powered RAM wise and the screen resolution is not great 720p.
5|This tablet is the best tablet I've had in my hands as a tablet, it had to be Samsung, bright & clear screen don't you dare compare it with the crappy Windows 8 tablets ever this Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is awsome
5|I was fortunate enough to get this for $128, so that alone gives me reason to be thrilled. I have an iPad Mini (the original one) and I love it, but I generally like the Android experience better. I was looking for a 7 inch tablet that would fit better in my various bags/pockets, and was waiting for a good sale. I got it! Being able to add an external memory card was a big plus, too, so I can load up a lot of personal files. This has exceeded my expectations. It's not blazing fast, but it's fast enough for most of what I do, and certainly more than what I could hope for at the price I paid. I don't find it to be any slower than my iPad, but I'm not doing heavy duty processing. I'm in front of a computer most of the day, so it does my heavy lifting. I have loaded the essential apps, and I am set to go. I mainly plan to use it for reading or maybe watching an occasional movie on my commutes and for displaying my portfolio, and for that, it's great. All in all, I think it's a great tablet and a much better deal than the iPad. For on-the-fly music and photo editing, I prefer the iPad, but the Galaxy Tab handles everything else very well. I like the WatchOn app and some of the other Samsung exclusives. The $10 Google Play credit and 50GB of Dropbox were nice little perks too.
5|I bought a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7 inch from Deals Shop and it arrived on time. But frustratingly they gave me no tracking information until the last 2 days (they basically sent it at the last 2 days and did 2 day shipping while to actually get it took the normal amount of time which was 4-7 days). When I got the package I was really excited but slightly disappointed to see that the packing in the box was very poor and the box that was holding the tablet inside was smashed up a bit. Luckily the tablet was perfectly fine but it could've easily gotten dinged during transit due to bad packing. These slight annoyances were just the specific seller Deals Shop i bought it from. The tablet itself was great! it sports a 1.2Ghz quad core arm cortex-A7 cpu and 1.5 GB of RAM, android 4.4 kitkat. the system comes with limited bloatware (which isnt a surprise because samsung is usually good with that kind if thing) and 8 gb of internal memory. the touchwiz UI is very sleek and enjoyable for normal usage and i highly recommend the galaxy tab 4 7.0 to anyone with a budget but wants a high quality tablet. In my opinion its the best tablet right now price wise. if money isnt a big deal there are MUCH better tablets out there, but this one is fine for me.
4|I was walking through a large retailer last week and the new Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 series caught eye. I have had more than my fair share of tablets... Currently I am rocking an HP Elitepad 900 as my lite laptop replacement tablet with Windows 8 and I love it for what it can do real x86 programs run etc. I had an HP Slate 7 since last spring it has been a great device for the price and usage I have gotten out of it. I was however looking for something more powerful and equally affordable which the 7 inch Tab 4 certainly is to use in bed and that slides in a bag without taking up a bunch of room. The hardware is plastic but it is put together very well and for less than 170 dollars I can't complain. The display is sharp as well and it blows the doors off of the Slate 7 with a full quad core processor. Honestly for the price it is really good tablet. The only issue is it randomly requires me to turn off and on WIFI. I have the latest software and have already exchanged it once and the new model still does it as well. I have not had this issue with any other device on my network before. I am going to give this product a solid four stars because of the WIFI issue, hopefully a software update fixes this in the future.
5|Just bought this today. It's been a while since I've bought a new tablet. Last one I bought was the first Asus Transformer T101. I loved it but it's just slow and out dated now. I needed something a bit smaller for meetings and to use at work so I thought I'd check out some of the newer Samsung Tablets. After playing around with this one for a bit, I was sold. The multitasking feature is really amazing. I can look at my email and a spreadsheet at the same time on one screen. Pretty cool! It weighs almost nothing. It's a very good size as well. It was between this one and the 8" Samsung 4 Tab. But for the money, I could see that the 8" was worth all that more. You get a little more screen size and more storage. That's about it. Seeing how this is primarily for work, I didn't think it would be a big deal. It's very speedy and snappy. The screen looks amazing, though, not as amazing as the new Galaxy S Tab. But still pretty bright and crisp. The TV controller is a really neat feature. Didn't think I would use it much but it's actually pretty useful. Overall, I'm amazed by this little tablet. It's fast, useful, and the perfect size.
4|Great product, just what you would expect from Samsung. It arrived on time and worked right out of the box, with battery 50% charged too. It responds and plays games really smooth.
4|Samsung Tab 4, 7 inch Easily Adaptable! A year ago I purchased this unit at Costco to determine if I could replace the weight of my lap top in my back pack while traveling through the Middle East and Europe. I found this to be a very helpful, light weight, tool in quickly searching and obtaining WI-Fi, composing logs, obtaining photographs and videos, and ease in downloading and sending materials. Although, I still have not got use to the word processor and the word/spell correct mechanism, I prefer this unit to my other devices. Due to the fact our homes have WI-Fi it was the perfect gift for my wife who is challenged in computer skills. Therefore, I purchased this unit again for her at 33% lower cost than what I paid 10 months earlier. The only difference is her unit did not come with a sleeve case as mine. I was very surprised how she managed the unit for in one week without my assistance she was e-mailing, watching Netflix and dictating with the unit. Unbelievable adaptability for the novice! If you need a light weight simple unit that has great features without connectivity to expensive data 4 G, this is the unit.
3|This is a fun, useful tablet for the price. I love that you can make all different homepages. Love that you can pick wallpaper which you can't do with Kindle Fires which are the only other tablets I've owned. Of course, if you want a tablet mainly for books, Kindle is the tablet you want. I also love all the apps you can get with the Samsung. What I don't like is the 8gb storage. I was under the impression if you got the 32gb extra it would integrate with the tablet rather than just be like a drive for mp3s and such. 8 gigs is barely enough for the apps you need. Also the manual tells you nothing about how to add things to the extra drive. Had to go to you tube. My tablet has connection issues from time to time. I still really enjoy it most of the time. It can be super fast and plays things well from the cloud. Very light and attractive. I am returning tablet. 8 gbs is just not enough. Extra storage cumbersome to use and doesn't work half of the time. Not easy like the cloud. Speakers unimpressive. I am disappointed because I thought I would like the Samsung. Also a battery hog. Will try the nexus 7.
1|After seeing the incredible success & growth of Samsung over the last few years, I figured I should finally give the Galaxy Tab a try. For the size & features at this price point, the product seemed like a no-brainer. I'm afraid to say that after using this tablet for a few days, I'm literally shocked at how horrible this thing is. Menu response, app loading, and page changes are all incredibly laggy and slow. But the worst part is the sluggish, stuttering screen performance, especially when scrolling. Pages like Facebook, tumblr, and news sites that use WordPress styled infinite scrolling are absolutely painful to use. Every attempt to scroll up or down results in jerky page movement that is just agonizing to look at. With the surging popularity of Galaxy tablets & sales of these units in the millions, I assumed they must be a viable alternative to the iPad. But after using one I can only conclude that they must be popular because they are cheap…not because they're any good. If I can't return this thing to Amazon it's going on eBay faster than you can say "junk."
1|buy the table samsung galaxy 4 7.0 8GB and strangely stopped working ah GROUNDED Wi - fi and Bluetooth. eh trying to contact the samsung no luck ... I ask for help please
5|Awesome tablet . I hit it all day long everyday. Put clean master on it for free and use Firefox for free and you have an awesome tablet. I put a black I rhino case on it and use a screen protector instead of any plastic cover. I put a 32 gig chip in it. I highly re comment that if you snag a lot of pics or vids.the only issue I have is all the boat ware and apps I can't move to the card without rooting it . Having the true clean master on it saves it by cleaning out all the junk and lettin me know before it locks up. All of the clean master products are wonderfull along with their security and battery app. That combo makes this a real winner for the money. I am a extreme user and group admin and I'm on thi thing day and night non stop.(disabled). I've watched complete baseball football and nascar races and the pic quality is great and no problems at all. Great battery life coupled wit C.M. Battery doctor. Good cord and awesome size and feel with the iRhino case on it. It has a kickstand on it so you can just set it down on the kickstand and let it go. Great tab and I'm real happy with it.
5|Great tablet for the money. Upgradable to Android 5.0 and still very good response. Probably the best 7" tablet on the market at half the cost of some other brands.
4|I never used iPad so I can't compare it to the iPad. But for all the tasks I use, it works wonder, weChat, Yahoo Mail, Google apps, games, you name it. I don't know anything that iPad can do that this on can't, with a lot less money and convenience. You can plug it to your computer USE, and it becomes a removable storage, and your can copy anything on to the directories. The touch and response time is excellent too.
5|I've bought 3 of these tablets replacing my sons Samsung galaxy tab 3's. The first thing you'll notice is there isn't the lag that the tab 3 had. Picture looks great and most games will run with no problems many of which weren't compatible with the tab 3. For an affordable android tablet look no further. They hold up to constant gameplay without any of the glitches the tab 3 had. All of them are still holding strong in the hands of my kids which says a lot. Is it comparable to a high end tablet? No, but you are definitely getting your moneys worth. For playing most app games, browsing the net, fb, and whatever else they want to do with them it is an affordable option. Not going to complain about the camera or other small things since what it comes with is more then acceptable for the tablet cost. If you want a top of the line tablet get one. But for the money and features offered without any of the tab 3 issues like charging problems, random shutting down and not turning on, easy to break screen. The tab 4 has none of those issues and makes a nice entry level tablet affordable.
4|The Tab 4 7.0 is a decent mini tablet for the price, however I was still left slightly unimpressed. The processor is quick enough but nothing to write home about. The same can be said for the screen, which is big enough to enjoyably watch Netflix but the resolution still leaves something to be desired. The storage capacity is on the lower end and you will probably need an SD card which must be limited to 32gb. I feel like the battery life could also be better. The construction isn't particularly reassuring and the cheap looking fake chrome plastic bezel is just terrible/lazy design. The "camera" was probably a surplus part from a phone made in 2006 and is disappointing, lackluster, and something you wont use. Despite my long list of flaws, for the price this is definitely an acceptable entry-level tablet or e-reader. I do like the Tab 4 7.0 for what it is. However, you can't help wonder what they could have made if they didn't cut corners and I probably would NOT buy this again. I would buy the 8" model with better performance.
5|Great for the money, works with the square. If you are on a budget, this is the tablet for you. Shipping was so fast I think it arrived before I clicked checkout!
5|This is my first mobile computing personal assitant device. I was biased for the Samsung brand because they had made a great external CD drive. I have an older Nokia phone which I love but don't use on-line, and it's not useful for apps because its operating system isn't one of the main ones. I mainkly wanted a mobile device which can run an app which only works on Android, Apple (iOS) or Kindle. I'm convinced that this is the best entry-level device --- that is, for someone like me who is accustomed to a desktop keybard and cell phone, and new to tablets and touch-screen. The size is perfect for carrying around --- big enough to get some useful internet use, more than with a cell phone-size device, and small ehough for a purse, brief-case, man-bag, etc. I am keeping mine inside a quart-size polyethelene food storage bag. I made the fit a little tighter with some tape, so that this both protects it all around, including the screen, and is transparent so that I can use the tablet inside this cover --- it acts as a screen protector.
3|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 I bought was good at first. It did what a tablet does, mobile web browsing with the Google app store for other neat things to try out. I have had this for at least a year now. The performance of the device has severely degraded to what it was out of the box, which is to be expected in my opinion. For the price that was paid, I guess it was worth it. The performance compared to the Apple products that I am use to using cannot be measured. I still have a first generation iPad that is working/performing better than the Galaxy Tab. I do not tend to download many apps. I have only the out of the box apps plus less than five apps (games). Maybe a full format of the device would help, but I have done that already. Storage was not an issue because I had a 64GB memory card placed in this device. If there are some apps that could boost performance, I have not found any. Overall, its a nice device to have but I would honestly stick with Apple products that will last. Nothing wrong with the Galaxy Tab.
4|I like this tablet A LOT..... I have kindles and this is the first none-kindle I own. I also use an Ipad at work. I bought this so I could download movies and watch on the plane while I travel. I bought a 64 gb memory card and can fit who knows how many movies. Pro's - Google Play is the standard, you can download games and movies off of it. - You can enhance Memory with Micro SD Cards unlike the Kindles. This is great as if you do not have access to the internet (cloud) you can save content into the card and not have to worry - Its easy to get Google Play for apps etc. and also you can get Amazon app store on their as well so you can get Prime Music as well as Google Play stuff. - Good processor, fairly durable, camera is pretty good as well. -Easy to Link gmail, Facebook, Netflix, etc. Awesome convenient! Cons - Seems like it can overheat potentially - Sound volume is lower than the kindle....... thats a bit of a downer. - Thats about it. Overall a great buy.
4|This is my second Samsung Galaxy Tab. I had the Galaxy Tab 2 until it died on me. I purchased this device because I am able to take pictures with my DSLR and then move the microSD card to the tablet to edit and upload the pictures. This is especially useful while travelling. Other than working with pictures, I primarily use the Tab for surfing the internet and light reading. The Galaxy Tab 4 in comparison to the 2 is noticeably thinner and lighter. There are two things about the Tab 4 that I wish could have been better. The main one is that it doesn't have a strong of a connection to the wireless router. The router is placed two rooms away from the bedroom and the Tab 4 regularly maintains only 1 bar whereas the Tab 2 connection was always strong. I also wish that the softkeys on the bottom of the Tab 4 would light up. Sometimes it takes a bit of hunting and pecking to find the right spot to hit for the return key. Other than these two limitations Samsung has made a pretty good product.
4|I really enjoy using this tablet whenever I'll be online for more than a few minutes. Had a 10" tab but it was just big enough to not be comfortable carrying around so it often say at home. This 7" size is perfect to carry around and big enough to watch news video or even a movie. It doesn't have all the bells and whistles of the 8", but I had the big one before with all that and rarely needed it as my Galaxy 4 does just about everything I need...this 7" tablet just makes prolonged use of similar features a lot easier. With a dialer and texting apps over WiFi (tethered from my phone), I often just leave my phone in my bag now. Only critique is lack of camera auto focus and lack of auto screen dimming...I wouldn't have thought those to be that expensive to have. Makes the camera useless and I use an app for converting paper to PDFs all the time and doesn't work so well without auto focus. Next phone will be as small as possible and keep something like this with it.
5|I love this tablet easily syncs with my galaxy phone the battery lasts a long time easy to use and so portable perfect size and device for my needs
1|This tablet has two good features: price and screen. Everything else sucks. 1. Slow,slow,slow. Everything is jerky, even Candy Crush. Switching apps takes a lifetime. Opening up a new app even more. Keypress takes up to a second to be recognized. 2. Samsung's Android flavor is just unbearable. All configuration options are thoughtfully arranged in the least logical fashion, and grouped in several inconvenient tabs that make little sense. 3. Back button is on the right, not left as in vanilla Android devices (Google, Motorola). This might be a matter of preference but I find it not intuitive at all. 4. Android 5 Lollipop? No way. 5. No custom ROMs are available for this device (save for repackaged Samsung ROMs that essentially is the same thing less bloatware) due to Samsung's infinite wisdom in deciding to implement heavy-duty protection for this chipset. 6. Bloatware. Then some more. And more. 7. Did I mention its slow? It will often ask me for PIN code twice after booting, in immediate succession. Disclaimer: I am running the latest version as provided by mighty Samsung. There may have been miniscule performance improvements in last upgrades, but even if so it barely makes a dent.
4|This is a good, relatively inexpensive, tablet computer purchased to replace my wife's first generation Kindle Fire which suffered a battery failure. After approximately five weeks usage it has functioned without problem and has been easy to use. My wife has found that she has been able to expand the number of things she does on the tablet (beyond what she was able to do on her Kindle) and cut back on what she does on her laptop. Its light weight and small size allow her to carry this with her in her purse thus having it readily and conveniently accessible for use. This little tablet is for personal, non-professional use only. We find that battery life is sufficient for her to use the tablet all day long by charging it overnight. She is very pleased with this tablet computer. As this only comes with 8GB flash memory I would not recommend this unit without installing the optional 32GB memory expansion card and feel this should come as the normal, out of the box configuration.
4|A product review isn't what I wanted to write. I just can't find a way to communicate about my purchase without possibly leaving inappropriate negative feedback. I like my unit, but it only came with 8 GB memory, when I know I had selected a more expensive unit to get more memory. Unfortunately the electronic documentation doesn't mention the 16 GB I had settled for, nor does it show the 32 GB I had actually wanted. My unit is now full, wants me to delete files, and won't let me install new apps. I have moved the old apps to a temporary 16 GB module from my old tablet, and there is a significant amount of free space now, but the unit still says it is full. I don't know what to do. I don't believe this is a product flaw. I think the product is superior to most. I just need to find out where to get help, first to get my unit working, and secondarily to upgrade the memory. 8 GB does not seem like a reasonable amount of memory for a tablet.
5|Great little tablet! Beautiful screen and clarity. Nice operating system. User friendly. Parental controls through setting up multi-users!
5|I'm happy with the specs, and so far it's running like a dream. The operating system is simple and user friendly. I haven't gone app crazy, but I have a fair amount and haven't come close to maxing my storage. I find 7" to be a very convenient size, but there are times it would be too small. Watching something with another person would be a tight squeeze, but maybe that's what you want ;). It hasn't had any major tumbles yet, but so far it's in tip top condition after a couple of minor drops. I am living in the stone age, and do not yet have a smart phone. This functions as an alternative for me, and I think it would be a great gift for those very few people in your life (perhaps yourself too) who haven't been converted to smartphones. Because it's so simple and straightforward any technophobe or endearingly clueless loved one should be able to use it without annoyingly relying on you as tech support.
4|very good tablet. I put it in a protectant shield plastic. so it is a little heavier, maybe as heavy as my iPad3. it is very functional, and has the usual very competitive Samsung/Galaxy ecosystem environment, which I have become accustomed to out of my cellphone being I now have experienced through three iterations of Notes, the II and now IV. so I can easily travel around the system, with this minor differing. for the money I think this was a good buy, and I immediately put in a 64GB memory card when I got it, though didnt need such so far. Pros: band for the buck this is very good 5.0 functions, with no glitches now at half a year. Con: well - nothing except maybe the heaviness. but how much of that is the protectant box, likely, though this is a light device, the back was a bit on the slippery side. other than that I use it daily, along with my other devices. nice range wifi.
5|Very pleased w this tablet......... I have access to 4 different brands of tablets, Kindle 8.9 HD, Nexus 7, ipad mini and Nook HD. But find I reach for this tablet regularly ... First ......thing you notice is how lite it is to hold.. the Kindle make my hand hurt after while trying to hold it upright as it is heavy. but .. Not with this little Galaxy Tab.. ....Second...... It is fast and responsive.no lag at all.. even when filled to the brim with apps and pictures .....Third ........holds a nice amt of music and photos, and video's on the sd card ( I have a 32gig card ))....... and will even allow movement of some apps to the sd card.( not all tablets let you do that ) .....Fourth .......the lovely screen.. nice and bright and easy to use reading the news or a book or magazine... or to watch a netflix movie. .....Fifth....... the price is SO SWEET This is a superior tablet at a very affordable price. Well within the reach of many. You will not notice anything missing. I have access to 4 different brands of tablets, Kindle HD, Nexus 7, ipad mini and Nook HD. But find I reach for this tablet regularly I am very happy with my purchase of this Samsung tab and will look forward to more Samsung electronic purchases in the future
5|Pros: Price, 7 inch form factor, Quad Core CPU, 1.5 GB RAM Cons: Lack of custom roms (CyanogenMod for example) from third party developers (not Samsung's fault, I'm a developer who likes to root, but don't have time to create my own ROM) If you're into TouchWiz, this is the tablet for you. It's fast and it can fit in big pockets. It is very functional. I broke mine and am buying a new one because it's cheaper on Amazon to buy than get repaired. I absolutely love the device. I recommend an external SD card and don't load any app over 2 GB. Also, disable (turn off and uninstall updates) for some of the TouchWiz bloat ware like Hancom Office, Samsung Galaxy AppStore, and the Samsung in app purchase. Just be careful what you disable if you're not an expert with android applications. It's a great tab and has a great price!
3|Not bad... WiFi receiver is not as good as the Google Nexus 7. On top of that it suffers from Android-itus... what's that you say... it's the inability for the makers of this stuff to tell you how to use it. For instance... how do you move files around.... how do you find out how much mem is left in the unit and SD card.... where do you find the information just mentioned. Apparently what ever idiot is responsible for this lousy operating system should realize that people can not plug there head into the thing. Simple instruction and WHERE to find them would be nice and might prevent people from returning the unit for a refund... yes a refund... I came within minutes of returning this thing because I could not find the B&N library to download my books.... no sync button that I could find... oh yes you get to download each book independently... the problem is there is nothing to tell you how to do it or what to look for. Many of these Android things are going to get returned simply because no one can figure out how to do anything.
3|BE WARNED! This is an 8gb tablet, but you only get about 3.5gb space for personal apps after all the bloat that Samsung puts on it that you cannot uninstall without rooting it. The camera is ok, but you shouldn't be using a tablet to take pics anyway. My Note 3 blows this away for space and camera, other than the size. For the price it's a great idea for simple web, email, calendar, and basic use. Don't expect much of it, and you'll like it. I made the mistake of not realizing how much I really wanted to use this as my main go to rather than my Note, other than phone and messages. This is a great price point for what it is, but again, don't expect much of it. I've already ordered another tablet with more RAM and memory to replace it, and I've only owned it a few days. The only reason I'm not returning it is because I hate returns, and it does what it said it would. It's really more of a tablet for your child, which is what this will become after she grows out of her Sprout Cubby tablet. -- Edit - I did end up returning this for an Asus Zen tablet that is slightly bigger and 4 times the memory for less than twice the price. The memory issue just bothered me too much and by the time my daughter is ready for a tablet like this I'm sure newer stuff will be out.
5|I love my new Tab 4! I had a Nexus 10 (which I also loved) spent over $500.00 for it just to find out 1 1/2 years later I needed to replace the battery. If you can find one...it's almost $200.00 ugh! I also have a Samsung media player that I use for music. The 7" screen makes it easy to carry (unlike the Nexus 10), screen display is beautiful and the colors are sharp, and it's pretty quick on the web. The home screen button is actually a button that sits up slightly, I think I prefer the touch screen opposed to a real button. The volume is better than I expected, because the speakers are in the back I thought I'd have to turn it over to hear but that's not the case. I purchased a Thankcase for it which fits nicely without covering up any needed openings and no damage to the corners when popping into the case.
5|My niece and nephew love them greta present easy to use they are 5 and 6 and wonderful items!!! Downloaded learning games!!!!
5|Packaging was great. Item had a terribly long journey, but no fault of BLINQ who sent the Item. Fed Ex Failed to locate NY after leaving Maryland. and after 13 days gave up and gave the package to the USPS, who got it to me in one day. The tablet was safe, and works well. My daughter loves it. The screen touch sensitivity is good, and the games I have tried on it LOOK great on the screen. We also got a protective case for it that shipped separately and a memory card. I do not like that the downloads go to the tablet and not the card. This does not look like it can be changed, but was a simple matter to go and move the lesser memory games to the card. Games over about 50 MB will not move over. Well, I guess that is an improvement for the next model! Thanks for a fun tablet that did not break the bank to get and works well!
3|The tablet is awesome in every way except one, storage. The tab only comes with 8 gigs of storage and almost half of it is used by all the bloteware Samsung preinstall on it with no way to remove it unless you root the tab which can be quite difficult on a Samsung device. By time you add the basics apps your tablet will be out of memory. The tab does have a external SD card slot but Samsung won't let you install programs on it. A matter of fact it won't even let you write or save to the SD card without special programs for rooted users. For people who can root their phones there are apps like folder mount that will force the tab to transfer data to SD card, however its a bit complicated and the apps don't always work. Overall this would be an excellent tablet if it allowed the use of an external SD card for storage.
5|Works almost perfectly to replace both my Nook and Kindle - although does not seem to want to read/flip pages on the Children's books that worked fine on the Nook. Since I have a Samsung S3 phone the learning curve was fairly small. MOST of my Apps and important stuff uploaded automatically (calendar/contacts for example) with my 365 synched GoDaddy account but you'll find a few need to be reloaded - no biggie so far since any I'd purchased were free to download again. Will need to reload your email accounts if you more than one. I added a couple Amazon Prime things to it, a 32 Micro SD (SanDisk Ultra $17) and a good holder (Bear Motion Premium Folio Case $9 ( Make sure you get the right size http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00JX8P67W/ref=oh_aui_detailpage_o02_s00?ie=UTF8&psc=1 ) that both work great.
5|Very nice tablet, I was actually very surprised at its weight, its lighter then I expected. the screen is very Crisp even with an anti Glare screen protector on it. Sound is quite loud on it I was able to hear it over the exhaust fans in the kitchen that I work at. the overall speed of the tablet is great. Only 2 down sides I have with it the screen "sleep" doesnt have an option for never. Max is 30 mins after no activity before it goes to sleep. (The next may just be me) is that the weather app it comes with takes up half the screen and I do not know how to minimize it or make it smaller. Charging is simple and easy. and the battery life is rather long compared to other tablets out there (minus the kindle and iPad). this was well worth the money I spent on it!
4|The galaxy tab 4 is a great device its a good size pretty fast and I like all the modifications you have compared to any apple device.however there are small things that samsung might want to change for the next tab. The speaker placement is on the back so when you but the tab down the sound is completely muffled. The music stops playing if you get a notification and it doesn't play from where it stops. Ive had mine freeze up a couple of times and I wasn't even running an app. And lastly the volume, it's very low even at its highest. I like to drown out everything around me but the volume isn't loud enough. Otherwise it's a good buy it fits in almost all bags/purses so easy for travel and the quad processor really makes a difference compared to the tab 3's dual processor.
5|This tablet is an excellent value, especially now that the Samsung Galaxy Tab S has come out. It is an improvement over the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2. The screen's color is brighter in the Tab 4. It seems to more more quickly between different tabs. It also allow for better playing is some of the more complex app games that allow for better playing. The dedicated home key is much better than the virtual ones on the Tab 2. This device is more square, which is a moot point for me. The volume and power buttons are much more tactile and therefore easier to use. Having a choice between white and black is an added benefit. I wish Samsung offered a version that did not include their TouchWiz interface (I prefer pure Android) but this is still an excellent tablet.
5|The tablet more than lives up to my expectations. I was pleased to see that the Galaxy Tab 4 has changed its USB connection from the Samsung proprietary connector used on the Galaxy Tab 2 to a standard micro-USB connector. The display quality is great and the touchscreen is the most responsive I have ever used. The included video player pleasantly surprised me in being able to play videos copied (and not converted) from my PC and display provided subtitle files (.srt) as well as provide adjustments for subtitle synchronization. I was planing on installing MX player but as yet I haven't as I haven't needed to. I have used quite a few Samsung electronic devices, over the years, and have been consistently pleased withe their performance.
5|The best Android tablet that I've found. I got it to develop Bluetooth apps to control embedded systems and robots, but find myself at Starbucks hooked up to their WiFi. At home, I use the PC. The Tab 4's quad processors seem fast enough, and adding an optional 32Gb micro SD card seems to give you plenty of storage. It's new. Time will tell. One caveat -- more about Google Play, rather than the Tab 4 -- watch carefully what apps you D/L! When you click the [Install] button at the Google store, it warns you what resources the app can access. Many, many, many "free" apps access your contact list, photos, phone number, location, and camera. Sheesh! Beware. Buy the Galaxy Tab 4. It is a super bargain.
3|I have had this for one month. I will be returning it and using a Nexus 7 (Asus; 2013 model). The deal breaker has been the camera, though I have a couple other gripes. I previously had an HTC flyer which had a 5mp camera and took great shots. When it died I bought this Galaxy Tab 4. The Tab has only a 3mp camera and pictures turn out blurry, especially in low light. I took my Tab to the store and did side-by-side photo comparisons with a Nexus 7 (Asus) and there was a huge difference in brightness, color, and ability to frame the shot. For some reason, the Tab's camera seems to be slightly zoomed in. For example, it is hard to take a picture of person sitting across small table as they are too zoomed in. In summary, these were the reasons I liked Nexus 7 better: 1. Better camera (5mp v 3mp) 2. MUCH brighter white screen. Tab seems almost grey at it's brightest setting. 3. Wifi disconnect issues; the Tab has to be reconnected to my home Wifi several times per day. I've read it's a Kitkat problem, but I am NOT having this problem any more on the Nexus. Of note, however, the Nexus updated itself to Kitkat 4.4.4 so maybe it is fixed. Interestingly, the Samsung says it's "up to date" at 4.4.2. 4. The Nexus just seems to be faster. Facebook and everything else open faster. The Nexus is slightly longer (vertically) than the Tab. Originally I was concerned as I wanted my tablet to fit easily in my purse. The difference in size may actually be an advantage, as there is more room to "hold" the Nexus v the Tab. If there is a disadvantage to the Nexus, it is that it does not have expandable memory (i.e. slot for mini sd card). So if you want 32G and don't want to pay for a more expensive Nexus, this Tab would probably be the cheaper route. Hope this is helpful to anyone trying to decide between the two.
1|Unit first had the wi-fi and bluetooth connections go out, which was repaired under warranty by Samsung. Then a couple days before the warranty expired, the power button broke. I shipped it to them to fix. They are claiming the unit arrived to them disassembled - damaged during shipping? - but UPS has denied this claim. They will not send me pictures nor give me any details on what exactly was damaged or HOW. At this point, they are either lying to me or intentionally damaged the unit and are trying to charge me to fix it out of warranty. I've spent hours on hold only to go around in circles with them asking me to pay them money to put it back together and ship it back to me. Crooks. Do not buy.
3|I was very disappointed that this even had the samsung name on it because if I didn't know any better I would say this was a cheap no name brand tablet. It's not bad but it crashes all the time. The tablets wifi range is also horrible, you could be standing in the same room as the router and it says you only have about 2-3 bars. Also I can tell this thing needs more ram, opening any app takes waaaaaay to long. However its the perfect size and the android 4.4 is awesome. I like being able to hold this thing with one hand and playing games is pretty satisfying. It's definitely a good entry level tablet but if you want something faster I highly recommend one of the more pricier samsung tablets.
3|I bought this as my first real tablet. At first I was very happy with the tablet as it was large and ran very well. The problem came in week 2 when i had already ran out of space on the tablet. I had far less downloaded on the tablet then say my cell phone. yet still it was out of space. So i went out and bought a large sd card for it. The problem there is you cannot download apps straight to your memory card. So if you want to use it as a internet browser, with facebook and twitter then this is your tablet. otherwise get a SD card and download one app at a time and move it to the memory card. Pray that the apps you download allow this. If you can afford it buy the larger better tablet.
5|A great responsive tablet, I absolutely love it the size is perfect, not to big not to small, great for everyday use and school things, the personalization is incredible.
3|A great sized little tablet. Bought it to replace my Nexus 7 (2012) that had slowed to unusable speeds. CPU speed is fine for basic tablet-like tasks, but the GPU is an absolute dog. Simple 2D games like Angry Birds had noticeable low frame rates compared to Nexus 7 or my basic phone. Samsung UI is a bit much, but does have a lot of options and works well on a tablet. The tablet fits perfectly into your hand and is light so therefore it is very comfortable to use, but the back surface is a very slippery plastic. I know it is a budget device but this back surface makes the tablet easy to drop. In the end, the very slow GPU and slippery surface made me return the tablet.
3|This is a much more expensive tablet than the ASUS ME176, so I thought it would be much better. I would say it's equal in terms of build quality and performance, however it drops wifi on and off all day every day. I have all the latest firmware upgrades. I have the settings set to NOT turn off wifi during sleep mode. But it drops wifi a lot. None of the other devices in my house drop wifi, including ASUS tablets, Samsung Phones, iPhones and Mac's. I have read in forums that is a known issue, so I'm going to try to return this item. I have an iCPooch, and if the wifi drops then the dog's tablet cannot auto answer the video chat. I'll try the ASUS ME176 instead.
5|This was an anniversary gift for my wife and she loves it! But not as much as she loves me!! Buy it!!!
1|This review is for Ocean Reef Electronics. We purchased 3 tablets for my children and received them in a timely manner. We purchased in October and not even 3 months later, one of the tablets won't work at all. It won't turn on and it won't hold a charge. We have supervised our children while using this item and we purchased all the necessary gear to help protect it. The tablet itself looks perfect. When I contacted the seller, they said that we would now have to contact the manufacturer as it is passed 30 days. We are at 90 days...the product should still be working.Tablets aren't cheap. I am very disappointed that more couldn't be done. We will never buy from them again.
5|Last year I purchased a cheap 7 inch tablet just to see if bi would actually use it. Well after nothing but problems and now on my 3rd one I decided that it was time to bite the bullet and get a good one. My wife has a nexus 10 and always is on it and never has any problems. Now she wants one just like mine as its a little smaller and easier to travel outside the house with. She says its also more convenient to use for recipes as well. I love this thing. Hasn't has a single glitch or problem at all. My keyboard doesn't just appear and disappear for no reason and stays up while I'm typing. So glad I decided to get a real tablet instead of the piece of junk I tried to use.
5|I just recently bought this tablet and I have nothing but good to say about it. It's a really great size for my small hands haha being that I took a risk in buying a used one, it was still like it was BRAND NEW. The screen and the back side was clean and smooth, NO scratches or anything! Which was a total relief. Although, I do recommend buying a screen protector (it doesn't come with one, unfortunately but fortunately they are super cheap!) just to keep your screen fresh and have that "new product" feel. The processing power is A1, storage is okay (8GB) and my new 32GB memory card I purchased for it works like a charm. I have no regrets in my purchase!
4|This was for my daughter. She really loves it. I haven't found a way to edit photos that have been taken but maybe that's only a feature of their phones or something I just keep overlooking and can't seem to get it to focus. Everything stays blurry no matter what setting it's on, unless the subject is close and not moving. It's definitely one of the best tablets otherwise. I noticed that her charger cable is significantly shorter (about half the length) than the charger cable my son got with his Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7 inch from the store. Not sure why the need to downsize the charger. The tablet has to sit on the floor to reach any outlets while charging.
5|I suggest everyone to try this out in stores first. I bought it on Amazon on Cyber Monday since they beat everyone else's prices. Great gift for my mom and now we can stop fighting over the ipad. It's very light and portable with great resolution, camera, etc. Think of it as an enlarged version of the Galaxy phones (which I have as well) which has many more features that are Apple-competitive and minimal to no issues. If I'm on an outing, I'd bring this over my precious iPad mini any day not only because of how light it is and how it fits in one hand but also because it's more adaptable to the outdoors. Now typing an assignment... That's a whole other subject.
4|My son just turned 10 last week and received a gift card from his grandparents for Amazon. Rather than him spend the gc on frivolous items, I suggested looking into getting a tablet. I didn't want to spend the money on an iPad so I looked into the galaxy tab. He's familiar with it already since I own the 10" tablet myself...but I rarely let him use it. When I found the 7" at this price point, I was willing to put some money with his gc so he could get it. It's identical to mine only smaller so it was super easy for him to use it. I only wish I had bought the 8" screen, the 7" is a bit too small when you already have the "big one".
1|Fixed focal length camera. Great now I'm stuck with this piece of trash. Barcode scanning is a no go I feel raped.
5|Its been owesome as a companion for studying and quick referencing. Wish it had more memory though.
5|Birthday gift and my kid loves this thing, has a kindle fire also but she said this was a upgrade!
3|The tablet is very bright even in bright sunlight. It was functioning fine until it would not take a charge. A web inquiry about this problem indicated that many people/users had this problem. After several attempts to reset it, I contacted Samsung warranty service. They advised to send it to them in the original packaging and provided a UPS label. Upon delivery to Samsung, the screen was cracked. Samsung contacted me advising that the warranty was voided and they would only repair it if I paid $225 for a new screen! They would not accept any liability for this damage that occurred while in their possession. DO NOT DEPEND ON SAMSUNG WARRANTY!
5|Samsung Tabs are the best Android tablet available, period! This is my family's 4th Samsung Tab, and they are a great bargain. I appreciate the fact that additional memory can be added, in the form of a micro-SD card. The screen resolution is outstanding! One of my kids dropped their tablet and cracked the screen. I researched replacing the screen myself...found some great instructional videos on YouTube, and found the replacement screen and tools right here on Amazon. It took about 30 minutes and it's good as new! The Tab 4 is much faster than the Tab 3, which means there will likely be another Tab 4 in my future. Highly recommended!
4|I personally love any type of samsung products. This tablet is great and inexpensive. I bought two one for my son and one for my daughter. Easy to use. However, I would recommend locking apps by installing McAfee or other relatable apps, to avoid the youngerkids installing every game possible. As downfall I did not see an option for kid mode on this one. But you can easily fix it your way. Camera is okay it is not at great quality. The weight of the tablet is light and not heavy and the look / design is good . The pixels quality and brightness are great. Overall it was a decent purchase and doese the job.
3|Liked my Nexus 7 better. This one doesn't have NFC nor the second sensor so that a book cover type cover will automatically turn on and of. Camera is much better though as it is both front and rear facing. Also, it either times out or loses the Wi-Fi and then has to scan for it again. None of our other devices do this and it's very annoying when you go to send something and it says no connection available for s few seconds. Since it's the only device out of 4 wireless Wi-Fi enabled devices we have and use, I know it's not our Wi-Fi. Am going to take it to the Samsung guy at Best Buy to see if there is some setting to stop this annoying "feature". I sure can't find anything. Other than those things, it's good.
4|Clear, good size and great starter tablet for kids. No need to spend hundreds on Apple tablet.
4|I got this as an upgrade from my IPOD 4th generation. It has a much bigger screen, much more clear and vibrant picture. It does have a small static spot sometimes in the right corner, it may be the app or the device. I am not really sure because it is not always there. The sound is better than IPOD was but still not very loud. The battery life is good. I am a heavy user, so it last about 6 hours, and takes about 5 hours to recharge completely. It does not work with the CHASE mobile app with quick deposits, so I am pretty sad about not having that convenience, but all in all a great upgrade for me.
3|This is a decent tablet for the price i mainly use the device to read my books and download documents from my classes. If you do plan to buy one, be wary of the problem that samsung hasn't fixed which is the charger port starts to fail after awhile. Apparently, Samsung hasn't fixed this problem its a known issue. To get around the issue you can opt to put something underneath the micro usb part to keep it charging. But you shouldn't have to do all that to get a tablet to work so i rate it 3 stars. Pros. low price point . Pretty good device for entertainment use. cons: issues with charging port.
5|Great tablet. Kindle finally died and while it was a great introduction to the world of tablets its now nice being able to go to Google Play and download what I want (sorry Amazon!). Battery life/charging about what I expected and totally acceptable. Samsung specs say external micro SD card limited to 32GB size, but I saw others posting about using 64GB cards with no problems, which is what I ordered. 64GB works great! Nice being able to rip and store movies for when we're on the go. Tablet is very handy size and uses the same car charger as my cellphone. Very impressed with the unit and would highly recommend it.
4|I received my case and it had some factory defects, when I spoke with the customer service rep they immediately sent a replacement item and even allowed me to choose a different color because the color was different than what was described, this happens because of screen resolutions etc. When I received my new case it was completely free of defects and worked very well. I like the magnet closure and that it protected my tablet without being bulky. I would recommend this product to anyone looking for a thin case to protect their tablet. i would definitely purchase another item from this company in the future.
1|At first, it all seemed fine; [well, not all, I disliked the fact that the back button did not light up in the dark (like it does on other Samsung model tabs and on Samsung phones)]. Then suddenly, the headphone jack stopped working. After eliminating other potential issues, I contacted Samsung, who advised a factory reset. That did not work. Cut to the ending, the tablet is being packaged and returned to the service center. Note: this is a tablet that has been babied in the two months of its life. Apparently this headphone jack problem is a common problem, as I have discovered through research.
5|Love this tablet, I also have an iPad air and this Samsung tablet is becoming my favorite
5|This is a really great tablet. We've purchased a couple as gifts for our children and they love them. These are definitely an improvement over the 3's which didn't seem made to last. We do however the Galaxy tabs so we decided to give them another chance with the Tab 4. We've had one for 8 months and the second for 4 months and have had no problems whatsoever. They are handled by a twelve and four year old and they've been holding up very well. I've been thinking of purchasing another for myself because I like that they're good quality tablets but are more affordable than their competitor.
5|This is the best tablet I've ever owned. Fast and easy and it's android so it's awesome.
5|I purchased this as a gift for my husband and I must say this was the best gift I could have given him. He has not has any issues with it thusfar. He uses it on a daily basis for social networking, watching movies, playing games and listening to music. I think he sometimes pays more attention to this than he does me lol. We was very happy with the size of this as he didn't want a screen that was going to be to small to see or a tablet that would be to bulky to take with him. The color, sound, ease of use is all great. We certainly will be sticking with Samsung products in the future.
5|Bought this tablet for my fiancé as a gift. She is absolutely in love with it! I myself am rather tech savvy, so after reviewing the product on line, making a few comparisons, and of course the overall price, I was fairly confident this was a quality tablet. I cannot say that I or my fiancé are disappointed by this item. Beautiful screen, responsive and fast processor. Haven't had a chance to check out everything but from what I can see, this is a definite steal for anyone looking to either join the tablet world, or upgrade an existing one at a fair price. Great tablet overall.
5|I purchased this tablet primarily for reading and web surfing while in bed (reading on my latop was impractical and using my SmartPhone was getting challenging with aging eyes). I like that it is not a full-sized tablet like an iPad, but yet has a sufficiently-large screen (7 inch)- it is very portable, yet useful size. The tablet itself is well made and I like the functionality of it- the screen is especially bright with crisp resolution and I like having the micro SD card slot for additional storage. Overall a very nice compact tablet at a fair price.
5|Oh how I love this tablet. I bought it for my son for xmas and I spent 2 nights straight playing with it after he went to bed. It reminds me of a larger version of my old galaxy phone so operating it was a snap. I'm getting one of these after I recover from xmas. The quality of the item is apparent right out of the box, no dinky plastic casing. I have faith this tablet will last much longer than the no-name brands I've been buying for my kids. I'm done with wasting money on garbage. This tablet didn't break the bank however and I've very pleased with this purchase.
5|I love this tablet. It's so fast, it's small, but not too small. Works great with apps and internet surfing!!
3|Works well. Bought this for my two year old so he can watch videos etc. Could not live without this thing I dont think. Bought this case for it ( Fintie Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 Case [CaseBot Tuatara] - Rugged Unibody Dual Layer Hybrid Full Protective Cover with Built-in Screen Protector and Impact Resistant Bumper, Lifetime Warranty, Green) I mean its for a two year old and for what he needs or uses it for I cannot complain. The only reason I did not give it another star is because Samsung has still not released ota lollipop for this.
5|I absolutely love this tablet. I already own a Galaxy Tab 4 10 inch, but wanted something smaller that I could tuck into my purse. This is really ideal. It synced beautifully with my other Galaxy and I'm pleased with the screen clarity, ease of use, and speed. My chief complaint with both tablets is that I cannot move storage-gobbling apps like Next Issue onto the SD card, so I have to be careful not to download too many magazines at the same time. Chose this over the Kindle Fire because of SD card slot and availability of well-liked apps.
5|I am primarily an apple user but I wanted an android tablet to use with my google chrome cast. I don't have cable and I can't cast everything from my iPhone that I would like too. I also wanted a slightly bigger screen to view other apps. I read the reviews for this tablet and for the price I decided to give it a try. I am so happy I did. It's easy to use and with the micro SD card I feel comfortable with the amount of additional storage I now have. I would recommend this tablet to anyone who needs one but doesn't want to spend a fortune.
3|I just got this today and maybe I am not using it correctly, but this is not working like I hoped it would. I wanted a tablet but no more Apple stuff. It is sloooooow as if operating through a dial up modem. Time consuming to download apps and it often doesn't complete the download. Get error messages about connectivity and my WiFi connection, yet my phone, Kindle, laptop, and Amazon Fire work as usual. I will write to Samsung, but doubt that will result in anything positive. Frustrating device. I would not recommend this regardless of price. This is an update on July 25th. I figured out that if I was sitting right on top of my Wifi router this thing worked like a champ. If I got more than 20 feet away, I measured it, the device started losing connectivity. At 25 feet and beyond useless. I started dealing with Samsung for a fix. I have to say I spent at least 6 frustrating hours working with those people. It was reminiscent of the dawn of the home computer age in the 80s, spending hours on the phone with tech support. Every phone call or electronic request you make with those people you start over. That is to say another recital of the model number, serial number, name, phone number, etc. The on line forms are especially laborious. They acknowledged I had a problem, and sent me a "ticket number," which I was to use to get further assistance. One would think you simply referenced that number in your next communication and all of the pertinent information would be available. Not the case, fill out another form and start over. Samsung will attempt to convince you the issue has to do with your internet connection and/or your router. They will want to walk you through disconnecting everything, reconnecting, rebooting, restarting, ad nauseam. I quickly subverted this time consuming, time wasting process by telling them all other wireless devices were working fine throughout my house, including my Galaxy phone. Ultimately, Samsung agreed to let me send it in for repair. One fellow finally admitted there is a hardware issue with the device. They emailed me a UPS mailing label, which I couldn't print, but ultimately figured that out and sent it in. About three weeks probably, we'll see. Update on August 2. I received this back from Samsung in exactly one week. I tracked the progress through Samsung's system. The device was repaired the day they received it. The tab works a lot better now, but still has occasional connectivity issues. It was suggested to me to relocated my Wifi router, which I did and that has provided some help as well. For the price, it suits my purposes now. I still say though, if you need a reliable tablet, pony up extra $$, and find something else.
1|So disappointing! This is my second galaxy tab. My first was a 3s, and I liked it, but it died after 6 months and never worked again. I bought this as a replacement. After 6 weeks of occasional/light use, the screen has irreversible burn-in and it's now useless. It was set to timeout after 30 seconds of idle time, so it was not a usage issue. Also felt the processor to be sluggish and even candy crush had some delay. Movies won't play smoothly. Learning my lesson about getting what you pay for. $150 down the toilet. I'm going to call Samsung service again, after the last two attempts failed, but I'm not hopeful.
3|In the back part of the Tablet is a sticker - per research online it indicates that the tablet is most likely a refurbished unit. I was under the assumption that the tablet was brand new since that's what was posted. The tablet has been fully functional for the exception that it freezes while my son is live-streaming videos from either netflix or hulu. I'm not sure if it's due to my network provider, the internet, the application itself, or the tablet. The only solution is to power cycle the tablet and load the game/video again.
4|Great little tablet for the price, expandable micro SD is a must because there is only about 4GBspace left over and that's before the device starts downloading updates like crazy taking up another GB of the primary memory. Easy fix is to get a 32GB micro card for like 15 bucks and ensure you move all your downloaded apps to it. The device does lag at times when multi tasking but I'm sure its because of all the background services running. overall though pretty happy, hope it holds up for the long run...time will tell
1|I bought it so I could access 3m books from library. NOT!!!!! Disappointed.
5|I got this tablet to use for reading ebooks and quick browsing. I received the 10" Galaxy for Christmas and love it, but it's just too large and awkward for reading, especially being used to the original Nexus 7 tablet. This one is a perfect reader, browser, and on the go work tablet that I can slip in my purse. For serious browsing or watching Netflix it can be a bit laggy but I think that it would be fine if it was my only tablet...I'm just spoiled knowing I have my more powerful one to play with :)
5|I LOVE this tablet. Was looking to get an upgraded KIndle but after talking to this man a Best Buy I knew this was the tablet for me. I have had it over a month now and couldn't be happier. Even though I bought it here on Amazon, the Samsung rep at Best Buy is happily showing me all kind of features on this and has helped me get started on my way. Going to take it over sea's next month and will be able to do Skype and email. It has all my receipts on there and pictures too. Great buy!!
4|My daughter wants everyone to know this is the greatest tablet of all time. Hail to our Samsung overlords! Good screen, lots of apps. It comes with the Google store, for more gaming options and the camera isn't too shabby either. Not excellent pics but enough for an amateur. It is also sturdy which is good because my daughter drops it a lot. On the plus side I use this tablet to get a lot of chores done. "Do your chores or no tablet...yada yada yada"...Everyone wins.... Thanks Samsung!
1|will not charge. Will not hold a charge. Not worth the aggravation
5|I didn't expect this much power from such an inexpensive tablet. It has enough memory for two or three of the games I like, a lot of apps that I didn't expect to be able to use, like creating and printing documents (not with the Hancom pre-installed software, I disabled that and got a better one). The screen is great. If you're tablet shopping, take a look at this one. It's actually better than its sale descriptions. I expected to pay double this price for this much capability.
5|Vary happy with this unit. It works so well that I find it more easier to use then my full size computer. It doesn't have all the Bells n Whistles that some of the more powerful units have, But it is quite fast and quick. No video freezes or audio drop outs. You can't go wrong if you want something to keep up to date and informed. Cons; The camera is not that high tech. It also doesn't have a Flash, but then again it was not something I wanted.
4|I got mine at Kmart. But my thoughts r this. Its a really good tab and this is my first tab. It's not a great one but everything looks good on it but I do have a little trouble with Netflix and the wwe app. But besides that it's a good tab. ESPN,Hulu,big ten apps work great on it. I disabled a few apps that I won't use and it doesn't harm the tab. So would I recommend this to people that's just starting out on a tab yes I would. It gives u the feel of what a tab is about.
4|I was a bit disappointed with this tablet and I didn't find it laudable but after a couple of days I got used to its LAG and it was really good for stretching my patience. I don't mean it sarcastically. It's a good tablet for its acclaimed price and the BATTERY LIFE is one of the best in the market. No exaggeration here. I could easily use this tablet to its full ability during an airplane flight without it going under 40%. I'm impressed and content with this product??
5|This is my first android tablet as I have only used an iPhone and Kindle previously. This little device is plenty powerful and once I got over my learning curve very convenient to use. I like have the option to use Android apps versus the other apps for my existing devices. My Kindle is great but my partner is constantly using it so I had to get another toy for me. This one works very nicely for surfing the web, using Facebook, playing games and reading e-books.
1|This device was a serious let down. My suggestion is to not get the 8 gig model. I ordered this as a gift along with the 32gig samsung sd card. I figured then id have a 40gig tablet, but no it doesnt work that way. Only small parts of the apps you download are saved on the card and the rest goes on the device. Space is a really big issue, to download 1 game i had to delete all the pictures, videos, songs, and other apps. Very disappointed, wish i could return it.
5|I love my new toy.I had a 10" tablet which turned out to be a bit clumsy and big at times.This 7" Tab 4 is a perfect fit.I plan on using it on some road trips I`m going to take.It should easily fit in my glove box. The performance is great.A very responsive tablet.The screen is plenty big enough to see.So when I can use it over my smart phone it`s a nice improvement.I did buy a 32GB card for $17 to expand the storage which is a must.
4|I bought this for my mum as a present she hasn't seen it yet so unable to comment if she can use it. I am used to another make of tablet so I did need to play around abit setting this up for her. But it was mostly straight forward. I did download the kindle app and the skype app which was easy. I eventually got the hang of it. I am sure my mum will learn how to use it too, but she will probably only use it for a few things ie; kindle, skype, pictures
3|item works well. updates are easy and automatic. many apps that can be downloaded. battery can last for days in stand by mode. however this device cant be used for receiving amazon prime content which i didn't know and was part of the reason I had bought this item. Also email are slower to be received on this item compared to how soon I get them on my computer or phone. Netflix and hula can be view through this item if you have accounts with them.
3|I'm not very happy, sometimes this tablet lives up to the Samsung name and other times it doesn't. The camera produces mediocre pictures and the process speed (for me at least) isn't the greatest. I've considered returning this but I think for the price I payed for along with the free 32 gb storage card, I'll keep it.. my dad just got the LG gpad F 8.0 and it's awesome and for not too much more than I payed for this. Makes me wish I waited.
5|I love this thing :) I got rid of my iPad 2 when it started acting up, and after using this wouldn't go back to iPad at all. I haven't had any trouble with this, case or not, and it doesn't scratch easily. The cases for it are also sturdy yet attractive, and it's great to read on. It's the perfect size and weight for me, as well - it doesn't hurt my hands when I lay down and am reading on it at night like the iPad did. The speakers are VERY good!
5|I chose Samsung because my current a previous cell phones have always been Samsung and they work very well. Not being tech savvy and understanding my smartphone Android made the learning curve is slightly easier for a gray haired person. This item has features that will take a while to explore and maybe never use, but they are there for the exploration when I'm ready. The price was very competitive as Amazon Prime has been in my experience.
3|I've had these for about 8 months and they have trouble holding charge. They also do not register that they're fully charge so we will have to re-start to get them to indicate the accurate battery level. The screens are a little finicky too. 8GB is not enough if you will have a lot of games stored on the device. We bought two for my kids and even with upgrading their SD card to 32gb, it doesn't open up much space on the actual device.
5|Great tablet for my daughter coming from an iPad lover. Very affordable and works well for what she needs it for. Love the fact that a 32G micro SD card can be inserted for more memory. Picture and video quality is ok. It is lightweight and can be stowed away easily in a small purse, bag, backpack, etc. (with a protective case) being the convenient size that it is. Was delivered on time and packaged well. Would buy again from seller.
4|Not as fast as my iPad, or iPhone BUT I bought it for 1) Price 2) to watch movies and the occasional app. This is a great tablet for any purpose and for way less money than the ipad. Also really dig two features that the iDevices don't sport - the expandable memory card and the ability to play MKV files with the VLC App. For me - it's a win. Only reason it didn't get full stars was the speed comparison to the iDevices.
1|Losses wifi connection daily and requires to be rebooted to fix.
5|It has quick response, clear graphics, and is pretty good at loading/playing videos. Sometimes it has to pause when playing; but if you let it download, it does very well. I like its size: large enough to read most any text, small enough to hold in your hand. I also use it to write/review email, edit spreadsheets and text docs. Does this very well. Only downside is the camera. For a 3 MP camera, the images are rather fuzzy.
4|GREAT TAB SHOULD HAVE BOUGHT 16GB INSTEAD OF 8GB MEM GOES FAST
5|Really satisfied with the size and external appearance. This tablet is thinner than my older one, has a better processor, more memory, and connects to wifi using 802.11n, so overall, it's a big improvement, plus it runs the latest version of Android so my compatibility problems are gone. I didn't think the ir blaster was going be installed from what i seen in the pictures but it is and works on a Samsung tv just fine .
5|Great tablet, easy to use, watch any movie, play cool games, educational games, beautifully bright colored screen. I have 5 samsung tablets and also have samsung phones, I love them all. Best out there in my oppinion, I have had others but this is my favorite because you can put a memory chip in it, and sync it to my phones photos. automatically backs them up to one another, if you sign in and set settings that way.
4|Worked perfectly fine until the charger port stopped working
4|Cant fine much wrong with the tablet. There have been a few apps that weren't compatible with the tablet but they are rare. The only thing I wish it had was a larger internal memory. Even with an additional 64 gig micro SD card it still wasn't enough. Many of the tablets functions & apps cant be stored on external memory so you still reply on the small amount of internal memory that the tablet provides.
5|This tablet is great! I love it! I've had it for about 3 months now and have had no problems. The only thing I do not like is the fact that it barely has any storage so you can't really download all that many things. It's great for basic duties, like checking email and browsing the web. It can run games, but you can only download a couple because you only get like 4 gb of storage out of the box.
5|I purchased this tablet because I was tired of carrying my iPad2 around everywhere. I wanted something smaller to "blog on the go". I don't always carry around a big bag so I wanted something that could fit into my little clutch handbag. This fits with no issue. This tablet is light weight and easy to use, even my 3 year old enjoys playing with it. Not bad for $129
5|I love my tablet! I have had it for 5 and a half months now and have not had any issues with it. The display is very vivid (more vivid than any device I have had). It is also extremely durable. I have dropped it outside (face down) without the case a few times and the screen did not have a single scratch! I would recommend this tablet to anyone looking for a quality tablet for an affordable price.
5|I bought this to be a Christmas present for my oldest granddaughter. The size is right for viewing. The Samsung Tab 4 is perfect for what she wants to use it for. This a great tablet with good speed. The screen has great colors. This tablet can only use Wi-Fi access to get to the internet. Which is all she needs. If you are looking for a great tablet with great colors and screen. This is it.
5|The best Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 for the price this is the one you should get $139.95 to speed the quality the picture excellent for the priceit did by hey Dragon touch 10.1 tablet that tablet is the worst one I ever bought to return it kept on shutting off and freezing up On me oh well I got my money$$$ back I should of went to Samsung in the first place I got to love my samsung products!!
1|I never got to use it. It kept restarting. Piece of junk.
5|This is such a wonderful tablet! I am so happy with it! Perfect size for me, being that I have fairly large hands and all. Great speed and power. This is my first foray into the Android world and I just couldn't be more pleased. It was so easy to just dive in and get started. Friendly user interface and customibilty. Just get one and get it over with.... Samsung is really doing it. Better watch your back Apple.
5|this is a great small tablet lol i like it better than the ipad i am not an apple fan when i first got the apple ipad didnt know how to use it but when i got this one i totally know how to use it lol, screen had good colors, works quite well and its just awesome very light and small. easy to tap on the screen than ipad i awesome thing i got it cuz i keep waiting and waiting
5|A great little tablet. The built in keys are a bit too easy to hit when gaming on the thing, but having a built in actual home key is kind of nice. It's a great size and weight. It runs applications way better than the Galazy Tab 2. However, the limitation of not being able to fully utilize your microSD card because of JellyBean is obnoxious. The screen resolution is epic.
5|We purchased one for each of our young children (2 1/2 and almost 5). I was a little leery of such a big purchase for young kids, but I don't regret it. I love the restricted user account so they only have access to what I give them. This will make it easier to keep them off Internet and YouTube unsupervised. There are so many free learning apps that can be put on them.
5|I got this to replace my older tablet. I just wanted something small, but bigger and better than my cell phone to use while sitting around the house. This is a fantastic little tablet. Far better than I expected. The one a had was several years old, they have come a very long way since then. I absolutely love it! Great for social media, reading ebooks and general surfing!
5|This tablet has surpassed expectation(s). I find the quality exceptional and ease of use a great benefit. I especially like the micro SD storage that enables user to add extra memory - shouldn't all tablet have this feature? I would recommend this tablet for experienced or neophytes alike, with the price, you can't go wrong. Display is crystal clear with vivid color.
3|I've had this tablet a few months now and it works great . But the memory required to run the system takes up half the available memory . Once you put a few apps on it you start running out of memory . If I had it to do over again , I would pay the extra money to get the one without the preloaded programs .
4|Bought as a gift. Lightweight but solid build. Very fast and responsive and the screen resolution is gorgeous. It's good for browsing, Facebook, YouTube, and other casual tablet use. It will not replace a laptop or Macbook. The battery life seems substantial. The storage just won't be enough so invest in a memory card. Product delivered on time and in safe packaging.
5|I am very suprised and satisfied with the quality of this tablet. For this price point I wasnt expecting much, however I was blown away by the snappiness of the device and the very long battery life. The screen is incredibly nice and vibrant despite not being 'super retina HD' or what have you. I definitely recommend to anyone wanting a good cheap tablet experience.
5|Love this tablet so far! It has a great size for my intended purpose, reading my downloaded comics. It's about the size of a book/novel and fits nicely in my front jeans pocket, even with the Moko case I got for it. It's quad core chip is fast and its screen is pretty. Bundled in services and Play Store credit ($10) are nice and actually potentially useful (like a 50GB DropBox account).
5|I have other Android tablets as well but this one is different. Normally for Android tablets if you don't use it and leave it on, the battery won't last long. I have this Samsung tablet and have it fully charged & leave it in my bag for 2 weeks without use, I find that there's still 38% of battery. That's amazing. Also the resolution of the tablet is great.
3|It could have been better. Pros Nice look Back button 2 cameras Nice screen Eh on the speed Cons No flash Terrible cameras Scratches easily In conclusion , It could've been better For some reason it always erases what I type in the search key on the Internet and that gets quite annoying
1|keep having problems with charging it it broke again
5|i love my Galaxy Tab 4! I am coming from a Motorola Xoom 10 inch tablet and don't miss the size at all. I love the smaller, handier size of a 7 inch tablet. Games, apps, even browsing is fast and smooth. i also have a Samsung Galaxy 4 phone so using the tablet is just about identical, making it even easier to become accustomed to. Love love love!
5|I bought a net book out next book tablet...whatever the hell that cheap crap was called...the resoulution was horrible and I wanted nothing more to do with it. This tablet was it's replacement and I must say I am thrilled I made the change. The picture is clear...sound could be better but the battery life is awesome. Samsung saves the day yet again.
5|It was the right size and exactly what I was looking for
5|It works better than I thought it would.
5|daughter loves it
5|I got this for my kid but my husband and I "set it up" (played with it first) and I thought it was great. It runs fast, no glitches that I saw. I'm used to an apple platform so the android took a bit of getting used to. I think perhaps the main pages could be a little cleaner looking, less clutter, but performance wise, five stars.
1|Only samsung I've purchased that I regretted. I bought it in spite of the small storage 10GB (3.5 with all the stuff it comes with). The SD card option is useless because you can't move any apps there, unless you perform a technique that will void the warranty. Soon as I figure out how to wipe my personal info, I'm sending it back.
5|I have to honestly say that ever since me and my husband have been getting smartphones we have always gotten Samsung. I love Samsung!! This is my first Samsung tablet and I knew when I purchased it that I wouldn't be disappointed and til this day I am still satisfied!! I would highly recommend Samsung to anyone and everyone.
5|WORKS MUCH BETTER THAN ANY OFF BRAND I EVER HAD
5|I have watched movies, read books ,sent e-mails and read the New York Times on it. I upgraded fr;om an entry level tablet for better graphics; as I use it to show photos that are for sale at a local gallery. My only reservation is maybe I should have bought the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (8-Inch, White) for the extra storage.
5|This is the first tablet I have I am amazed how easy it is to take places. Very easy to use. I haven't really explored all the aspects of it; but I have plenty of time. Compact, like the color white, sound is good, also the touch screen. size is good for me. have had no issues. Battery lasts a good while, for my use.
5|I'm really satisfied with this tablet furthermore with this price, it is wonderful! For sure it is not the fastest tablet but it does what it has to and does that good! And the battery is pretty good also. After 3-4hours of continuous series watching the battery is still around 70-80% o.O I absolutely recommend this tab.
5|This is a really good tablet for people looking to do basic things like web browsing and watching you tube. The tablet acts up every now and then so its best to close all app and clear the RAM. Other wise really good tablet for the price and would definitely recommend to anyone looking for a cheap and basic tablet.
1|I bought the tablet as a gift for my sister who lives out of the country and had it forwarded to her through the mail. When she received it, neither the WiFi nor the Bluetooth will turn on, making the tablet useless. After multiple failed attempts at trying to reach Vovoya, this has been a disappointing loss.
4|The screen didn't have as great of resolution that I expected. i have an S4 phone and thought it would have the same quality screen...not a big deal though because it does what i want it to do. All in all, the tablet is really cool. It's small enough to not be annoying but big enough to hold in one hand...
3|I find the tablet works good and you can add alot of apps, but it doesn't hook up to a tv or monitor like the tab 3. They took that away in the new tab 4. Also it doesn't seem to mirror with the smart samsung tv. It doesn't have a flash either. I should have researched it more. I wounldn't have bought it.
4|Bought it straight off Amazon since it was cheaper plus the prime benefits. Other than that, the tablet is okay. Don't hold any expectations and as usual, expect the bloat ware from samsung. I just got it for watching movies, playing gsmes, and killing the battery on it so I don't have to use my phone.
4|It has a nice display and the battery life is acceptable. it feels durable and has the Samsung quality. One of the reasons I bought it, however, was to watch netflix and Amazon Prime on it. They do not work well on this device and do on my other devices. The screen freezes while the dialogue continues.
3|This thing was very disappointing. I am a long time Apple user, but am open minded. I got this tablet and was optimistic, however it didn't work out well. My biggest gripe with the Galaxy Tab was network connectivity. It simply will not maintain a WiFi connection. And that pretty much makes it unusable.
2|I baughty this item for my husband for Christmas he loves it now 3 weeks ago he started using headphones so only he can hear well the jack for ear buds is now broke in 3 WEEKS not happy the window is closed for returning or replacing & because i baught it online there isn't much i can do very Unhappy
1|I bought this item on Nov 25th 2015 and have used it sporadically since then. I had really high hopes for this tablet but I find it pretty slow, the video is extremely pixelated and I am experiencing problems with the touchscreen and apps not responding ( fb, instagram, etc.) Extremely disappointed.
5|I am happy to have this tablet; someone stole my Samsung Galaxy Tab 3. It went missing approximately one month ago and I was very upset at it's loss. I loved to play games on my tablet for stress relief; once my Tab 3 was gone, I actually felt sick at the thought that someone would take my tablet.
5|The tablet runs very smoothly, with a long battery life. A few things I've noticed: There is only one speaker on the right, so sound is not evenly distributed; and the camera is not of the best quality. No other complaints. You get used to a 7" screen, but a bigger one would obviously be better.
1|Right out of the box it has froze up 6 times.
5|I bought these as a Christmas present for my son and daughter. they are ages 2 and 4. I have a parent and a child profile and so far its working out. the child profiles are restricted so they can only use the applications i add to the list. plus I use them every once in a while for web browsing.
1|Got this a couple of months ago, slow but worked. Then last week it went blank. Would not turn on, would not charge, would not do anything. After a few days I checked Samsung Support and sent them an email outlining my problem. Never got an answer. So I am buying an Apple IPad and this goes in the trash.
5|So far so good! I received this tablet a few days ago and so far I am impressed. It has a super clear display and is very responsive when you touch the screen. As soon as I took it out of the box, I used Netflix on it and it worked like a dream. I literally have no complaints at this point!
4|Seems to work just fine for Games, and E-mail , The kindle AP for it does not work as will as it does on my kindle. Would of love to have a better user manual. I have questions on how to do something on the Tab 4 and can't find many answers, It's like they expect you to know all about it .
4|I bought this for my sister and she loves it she isn't very tech savvy but with this easy to use tablet she has been learning more everyday. The only thing that I don't like is that it only has a rear camera making using Skype useless for us both. Other than that she and I both love it
4|DO NOT BUY IT if you want it to connect to the web on it s own,all cellular service providers said it can t be connected to the web outside of a wifi or hot spot...hope it helps,it s great to take pics or watch videos,even to connect to the web on a hot spot, but I cannot give 5 stars.
5|I love it. For that price is it awsome, the camera is great and it worked fine even dough it does not have a flash on it. At the beginning the speaker was giving trobules but i just needed to reset it once and has not happend since i bought it 1 month ago xDD. I really recommend it.
5|Recently purchased the Tab 4 7.0 rather than the Nexus 7 (2013 ed) for a variety of reasons (biggest being price difference and form factor). I have no regrets, as while the nexus is an excellent piece of hardware, i preferred the tab 4 7.0 and in my 2 weeks of use its been a great tablet.
5|Switching from apple products and not looking back. With the piratebay app available, I don't have to download apps that I will only use once or twice. I can try them from pirate bay. If I like them, I'll buy them. I do the same for movies. It makes It easier to try before I buy.
2|It did not come with the children's mode as advertised & Samsung was poor at trying to fix the problem. They actually were unsuccessful at fixing the problem after being on the phone for 1 hour with them. I ended up returning the item and purchased a Kindle Fire instead.
5|I rate 5-Stars, This is just what i was looking for, thou i was really wanting the 10-inch one but didn't have enough money to go for it. But! the upside to buying this one is i found out that it fits right in my coat pocket. It works well and is a wonderful item to have.
5|Bought it for my brother. He has no issues whatsoever. He said from a full charge it will last for a good 2 days or more using constantly. (He plays games and uses apps on his days off.) He and I would recommend this to anyone looking for a great item at a decent price!
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab is great all around. The only issue is that it drops WiFi a lot and I have tried working with my WiFi router to combat this and its been doing a lot better now. It may have something to do with a Android update not 100% sure but I am leaning that way.
4|The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 was better than I expected because it was fast, but what I really like is the multiple user feature because I can share my device with my family. The only thing is that the seller Ocean Reef Electronics I bought it from the charger didn't work.
5|I bought this to replace the poorly built Asuz Nexus 7. It has performed very well and recharges in a few hours compared to the Nexus 7 which got slower and slower until it would not recharge at all. I had a $200 piece of junk with the Asuz but this device is great.
4|This tablet works pretty well and the condition it was in was good, they only thing I didn't like was that it didn't come with a charger. If you're going to see a new or used item, at least put in the description somewhere that it doesn't come with a charger.....
5|Get case but when I install my tab 4 it immediately begins an unending cycle of rebooting which it does not do when it doesn't have the cover on it. What I did was take a razor and chip the up and down volume and power button on the inside of the case works great now.
5|Like another reviewer, I purchaced the Samsung to replace my Google Nexus that was ruined by one of their upgrades. I should not have waited so long! Everything is more user friendly; keyboard, speed, sharpness, etc. Set up was a breeze. All for under $150.
4|Pretty good Tablet here! No serious complaints so far it's good. Sleek and beautiful as always Samsung! Only complaint is once I charged it for several hours and it stayed at 14% powered it off and on and it was fully charged so must have been a minor glitch.
5|Love this tablet. I replaced my old ASUS 10 inch tablet with this tablet and LOVE this tablet. I am a Samsung user, so found this to be very similar to the Samsung phones I have and continue to use. There was no learning curve at all on this. Great tablet!
3|Good for using it for the apps & browsing. The camera is literally s***. It doesn't have flash & it takes unclear pictures. You can't tap on the screen to focus the camera for a clear shot. If you want something to take good pictures, don't get this tablet.
3|It works just like an android phone and I love the features it has. The reason for loosing stars, none of that matters if it doesn't stay connected to the internet. VERY difficult to get WiFi to work right and then it feels slower than it should have.
2|Purchased this during the summer. My previous tablet was a google Nexus 7 which I liked for almost two years.It didn't have an expansion slot and I never rand out of space. I loved this new tablet at first. The hardware is snappy and responsive. The screen is bright and good angle viewing. No issues with the hardware it's the best one yet. What breaks this tablet is the size of the main drive and the restriction of what apps you can store on which drive. You only have 8Gb of space most apps for some reason have to be on. You can not use your SD card so your drive fills up rather fast with data and apps. There doesn't seem to be a rhyme or reason as to what apps will use what drives. It's quite arbitrary. Because of this the device is worthless unless you want to just store movies and TV shows on the SD card.The other issue that completely breaks this tablets usefulness is the restriction on OTC devices and usage of the USB port. This device will block any attempt to add USB storage. I've had 3 expencive 64Gb USB drives that work on older tablets but refuse to be recognized by this device. they have blocked this functionality entirely from what I can tell. No drivers work from any company. If you use this just for reading it's a very nice tablet at a good price and a good recommendation. If you are a stargazer and active person with varied interests this will have you frustrated and regretting the purchase very quickly. There are a few other smaller restrictions I've found that the Nexus doesn't have. Main being the Samsung skin on android is just that meant to restrict your ability to use this device the way you want or need too. And advertizing that you don't own this device that you paid for so you can't use it the way you need to. Only the way they want you too in their ecosystem. Then there is updates that never happen. Would I buy it again? No.
5|After my 2012 Kindle Fire HD kept disconnecting from wifi and kept giving me "authorization failed errors", I decided to upgrade my tablet between a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, Nexus 7 (2nd gen) or Samsung Galaxy Tab A. The Galaxy Tab A was too expensive. Even though the specs are better on the Nexus 7, I went with the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (16gb Sprint model) because the price was actually far cheaper than Nexus 7 and I heard way too many complaints about slow down/bricking Nexus 7 after lollipop update. I have been very impressed with the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. Pros: 1. User interface is very user friendly, fast and responsive. I am a big fan of lollipop on my Moto G (2nd generation) so it was easy to get used to this operating system. This Samsung kitkat isn't that much different than a stock android lollipop like my Moto G. Samsung kitkat operating system has a lot of features and it is very easy to use. I hear that this tablet may soon get a lollipop update and that will only make it better for me. 2. No bloatware... I heard some people complain about way too much bloatware. I don't think that is true at all. You get google apps that you can easily delete if you don't want. There are like 12 Samsung apps that you can't delete but I wouldn't call them "bloatware" as they are camera, calendar, galaxy apps, gallery, video, settings, etc. and I wouldn't want to delete them anyways. It isn't like you get 30 apps of locked junkware. 3. Great picture quality screen... Don't be fooled by the 216ppi. At a 7 inch size, the picture quality looks really great. It is the same 216ppi as my kindle fire HD and that too looked great. Sure you can pay more for a better screen but I don't think it is really necessary. 4. High quality construction... It has a nice feel in the hands and the quality is top notch. I have always been a samsung fan because they are really known for high quality and reliable products. This product is no different. I don't think Asus quality can compare and I heard many complaints about Asus costumer service too. 5. Cost... For me, I got it on sale for much cheaper than the retail price and way cheaper than Nexus 7 too. 6. MicroSD Card compatible... 8GB is way too little for me. I have the 16GB model and I already used 7GB of storage after installing all my favorite apps. If you want to add pictures, videos, music, etc., you will definitely need to use an MicroSD card. All tablets should be able to use MicroSD cards in my opinion. 7. Camera... It doesn't take amazing pictures or videos but the quality is good for the very few times that I use it. I don't think camera should be a real major priority for a tablet. Phone? OK. Tablet? No. 8. Battery life... I think the battery life is better than my Kindle Fire HD. Cons: 1. Speakers are somewhat lacking... My 2012 Kindle Fire HD has much better, clearer and far louder speakers than this 2014 Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. The speakers aren't terrible but when I did a side by side comparison, the Kindle Fire HD was really much better. This surprised me especially because my Kindle Fire HD was from 2012. 2. Capacitive buttons... It isn't that big of a deal but I would prefer the on-screen buttons like on Lollipop. In the dark, it is hard to see but you do get used to them by feel. I guess the benefit of the capacitive buttons is that they don't take up some of the screen space like the on-screen buttons. I would highly recommend this tablet and I would give it a 4.5 stars out of 5.
4|The Tab 4 is more of a budget style tablet than some of the other Tablet offerings out there by Samsung and their competitors. It all depends on what you would like to use it for to justify getting this tablet. The overall tablet form is good and still runs on Android 4.4.4 kitkat. It comes with your typical samsung/android fair of apps and settings, but these can all be adjusted to whatever design you wish to choose(which is why I prefer android devices). My main reason for purchasing this tablet was for work purposes. It's easier to use and organize notes and other aspects of daily work life. In addition when I am home it has a nice enough screen to watch things such as netflix, and other viewing apps. I found no issues in the casual use of it. However, there are only 2 things that I wasn't fond of. The first is the screen is not gorilla glass so it's more prone to get scratches(I bought a screen protector to try and prevent this). Another item I found, at least for my tastes, is that the speaker on the unit was not as powerful as I wished it to be. Then again this could be the reason it's more price effective, and if you are only going to use headphones, then it would be perfectly fine. PROs: Great Price Screen Size Decent Display CONs: Speaker Screen Not Gorilla Glass All in all, I didn't have any issues with the general use of the device, and it works well for what I intended. Depending on what kind of use you want out of your tablet it could very well suit your needs. The bright side of it not costing $500-$700 is you can be a little more carefree with it instead of having to take great care to prevent having anything happen to it.
3|The tablets jets the job done BUT! when it comes to gaming it tends to lag on simple games like temple run and despicable minion rush. Candy crush is smooth But having more then 4 apps running will want to make you throw the device across the room
5|Nice tablet everything works well.
5|Having a Galaxy Tab tablet has changed my life. I no longer have to print out directions or wait around for friends to direct me. With my Galaxy Tab tablet, I can get on with my life! I even gave my cousin the Galaxy Tab tablet for his birthday.
3|OK Android tablet. Looks nice. But 8 GB is very limited. Yes you can get an SD card but but everything can be installed to the SD card. Also for a current gen tablet I expected much better performance, but this tablet is very sluggish at times.
2|Tablet was very laggy. In addition, after about a week, when viewing pictures, the screen would glitch up to the point of unusability. I ended up returning it for a refund. Not the type of quality I expected from Samsung.
5|I have been nothing but pleased with this. It works very much like my S5. I love the multi view option. Love how movies look on here. Browses internet quickly. I am not running touch whiz, running go launcher instead and works beautifully.
1|I bought two tablets as a gift, I gave the tablets as a birthday gift today 8/25/2015 just to find out one came defective and I am unable to return it or exchange it. I don't recommend this product. I hope the other tablet is not defective.
5|Love it. I got it for myself so I can enjoy reading my ebooks with different apps from Kindle, Nook, Kobo, Google Play and most of all, I can read ebooks from Library. So far, I have not used any other apps on the tablet. Maybe later on.
5|I got one of these a few months ago as a birthday present. At first I wasn't sure that I would like it as I already had a large smart phone. I was wrong. I love using this thing! So glad I have one and I would highly recommend getting one.
5|Quality and presentation expected.
4|The directions are a little sparse for a first time user. I had trouble understanding them, but I keep trying. I realize that most consumers have lots of experience. I just wish there was basic instructions for those of us who are not.
5|For this price, I Just expected a tab that should connect to internet, play some games and use few apps and expected it to lag a little, hang up from time to time etc. But to my surprise, its almost as good as an ipad mini. Great product!
5|We tried the Fire tablet (ick!) and sent it back while ordering this one instead. This was a present for my 10 year old and it's been really great. We all have Samsung S4 phones and I've been super happy with my Samsung phones the past few years and I also have the Samsung Note tablet 8.0 with the little pen. While my girl does wish the tab had a pen like mine, she actually prefers the smaller shape of the Tab and all in all she's been thrilled (she's had it a few months now...). We've had absolutely no problems with it and unlike the Fire tablet you can access anything you want online including all the google apps you've previously bought through google play (Amazon Fire doesn't let you access the Google Play store in any way shape or form - you'd have to root the device to do it, thus voiding your warrantee). All the Samsung phones and tablets have a super easy to use and navigate interface. It's easily customizable with many available options for static or dynamic wall papers (my favorite is an aquarium that I have on both my tablet and phone) and tons of apps through google play. You can also download the Amazon apps for Android as well, but I've yet to see any on the Amazon store that I can't find on play and I like having all my apps on Google Play so that they're automatically migrated to any new Android product I buy (such as when you upgrade your phone or tablet, or add a new Android device). I highly recommend this product for kids, teens and any adults looking for a better alternative than the cultish Apple Ipad (I'm sure I'll take some heat for that comment...). It's a great tablet, a great size and well worth the price.
3|We purchased 2 of these tablets on a special deal at Office Max this fall. Our plans are to use the tablets for homeschool and fun on the go with our elementary school kids (ages 6 and 8). I have been an iPad2 user for about 3 years, and knew that there would be some differences. The differences go beyond the operating system and branding. Not only do we have some privacy concerns, but we also wish someone had given a better explanation of how you ARE limited to the internal storage capacity of the device. The removable storage does not support apps or software installation (read last part of this review). We have had these tablets for less than a month, and we are already being forced to delete apps. THE DEVICE IS FULL !!! (we have 16 GB micro-SD card installed, and it still has over 13 GB free, but we can not install even one more app) What we like: Very lightweight & portable Perfect size for small hands Easy to find cases and accessories - be sure get the screen protector from Armor Suit! The screen resolution and graphics are amazing The camera is easy to use & takes great pictures The tablet is a great value It works great as a TV remote control, and you can view some apps and online videos on your TV using this device Some differences we noticed right away: There are built-in "features" that are too invasive for family use, in my opinion: - If you enter your pattern passcode incorrectly more than twice, the tablet takes your picture and emails it to your registered email account. I can see that this is a great security feature when you lose the tablet, but I found it disquieting, to be receiving multiple pictures of myself and my young children, several times a day. The tablet is taking pictures of you, without your realizing it... There is no way to turn this off. The only solution we have found, is to put a small sticker over the front-facing camera. (I realize that we are being recorded everywhere we go. My husband works for a company that helps manage this new phenomenon of information overload. I would like to restrict outside access to what happens inside my home, as much as I am able... There is really no need for Google (or whoever it is) to be taking pictures of us all day.) - The "smart screen" that has to sense your eyes, in order to keep the screen running: If you are looking at the tablet, the screen remains active. If you look away or set the tablet down, it turns off within 30 seconds, requiring you to unlock it again to use it. Since we have covered the camera, to avoid our pictures being added to the big database in the sky over and over again each day, our tablets will shut off if we stop touching them for more than 30 seconds. - You can turn off this "power-saving" feature in the settings menu, but it does not actually change the setting. Each time I have tried to change the setting from 30 seconds to 2 minutes, it resets within 5 minutes, even with continued use. VERY irritating!! How productive can you be, if you have to keep unlocking your tablet while you are working on something?? - When my daughter turned on her Galaxy Tab, it automatically installed all the apps that are on my tracfone, and all of my Google contacts were also in her tablet (which included everyone who had ever sent or received an email from that email address). - MANY and I mean MOST of the apps that we have installed ask for ridiculous access and require "permissions" to access your information, including your complete network information, your Wifi connection and anything that is attached to it, your contact, access to your phone calls, ability to make and receive calls and text messages, access and delete information on your USB storage... and prevent your device from sleeping (this has drained the battery dry more than once). I don't understand why a Garifled game app would need access to my complete network and identity information. The biggest realization came yesterday, after about 45 minutes of online chat support through Samsung's website (he was either very bad at typing, or was completely unfamiliar with the technology and specifications). You ARE limited by the internal storage capacity of this device. - When we purchased these tablets, we were "sold" on the idea that you could upgrade your storage capacity - "Unlike the iPad! You can upgrade your memory capacity!" The tablets even came with a free micro-SD card with a 16 GB capacity - doubling the storage of the tablet, right out the door! What a GREAT idea! THIS STATEMENT IS NOT COMPLETELY ACCURATE. There is a difference between internal and removable storage, and what it can do. You can NOT install apps to a removable disk. Since we have downloaded several apps and games for kids, our device is already giving us error messages about "insufficient space." After 3 weeks of use, I am forced to delete apps from the device... games and apps that the kids still want to play and use... If you are someone who likes to use educational or game apps for kids, be informed before the salesman tells you what a GREAT deal you are getting on this type of setup. A Best Buy employee recently tried to talk me OUT of buying a new $800 iPad Air, and moving to a Samsung. He showed me the cost savings, and told me that with the iPad, you are paying extra "for the name." NOT TRUE!! Google will get into your private business as much as it can, and you will be forced to give it permission to access your entire network and identity, when you download their Android apps. They will take photos of you, whenever they choose. The "upgrades" in storage (via the SD memory) are only useful for pictures, videos, music, and other data you add. I think this tablet would be great for someone who does not want to install very many apps. If you want to use it to create documents and take notes, it will probably work great. We had intended to install Microsoft Office 365 on these, but I have yet to see how much space that software will consume. We are going to be forced to delete several of our apps. The external storage will be useful for storing pictures and videos. Kids love taking pictures and videos! Too bad we have to sacrifice the productivity and fun potential... but NOW I KNOW. I hope this information helps someone else. All in all, we are pleased with this purchase... but BE INFORMED before you buy. Think about what you will use it for, and consider getting a tablet with more internal storage capacity.
4|Dropped from 4 feet and drug across about a 10 foot length piece of concrete. No cracks, only scratches. Truly a testament to the build quality of these devices. The headphone jack has an issue where it shorts though, so there is that.
5|I am loving this tablet the more I use it. Even though it doesn't have a slot for a sim card, it can still be used by sharing data with the cell phone. So far it has run everything I have tried on it, and of course its a samsung.
5|Great Tablet, great price easy to used and to install or download programs or ebooks, I love it ita a great start for me that is not an expert on tech, so far very good, I love what I have seen and use, great addition to my house
5|My first tablet was a Galaxy Note 10.1. Now that I'm not in school, I decided to size down to something a little smaller. Glad I stuck with the Galaxy line, it's nice to have some familiarity, and I know I can trust the quality.
5|This was for my grandson, he loves it, what i didnt like was the warranty. I bought the extended warranty and when the dog broke it they wouldn't replace it. I thought it was for any kind of damage. So this is his second one
1|Most apps can not be moved from device to SD card. No reason given just error message app can not be moved. Using class 10 Samsung 32 g card. Device will only fit 3 or 4 apps. Bought for my son to play games, big mistake.
4|Although this product doesn't blow anything out of the water, it does basic functions. I am upset that you are not able to download flash media player on it, therefore many videos are not able to be watched via the internet.
5|I bought my tablet from Walmart a couple weeks ago and love it! Awesome display and very responsive! I just need a case for it because it is slippery without one. Overall I am super impressed and thrilled with my purchase!!
5|Fast, powerful, right size - all for the right price. Larger than phones, smaller than laptops and Ipads. And a whole lot less than an Ipad Mini! Love it. My Tab 2 still works great, just wanted to upgrade to the Tab 4.
3|I was excited to receive this earlier than I thought and I was happy when I first started using it. But after a day or two of setting everything up and "testing" the tablet with gaming apps and stuff, it really is a disappointment. I researched and read a lot of reviews before buying this because I was really hesitating whether or not I wanted this, then I ended up buying it since everyone says its so good. I had high expectations for it so thats why i was really disappointed when i found out it really is what you get for the price you pay. The camera is really bad both front and back, no autofocus so i cant even take a nice picture without it being blurry or fluffy looking. It cant play games smoothly, i tested this playing Modern Combat 4 and it would just glitch out or slow down and the screen would look like its cracked or something, so its not smooth for high level games like MC4 or real racing or any high performance high graphic games. the music seems to sound static at high level, and even after putting a samsung 32 gb card in, the storage wont go through right i dont whats wrong with it, so my device is already slowing down and acting up and its only been a week since i bought it. other than that, its really nice and usual for social networks and youtubing and stuff. im just disappointed at how it lags at times or freezes. hoping to sell this to someone so i can get the 8inch one which has snapdragon or a different tablet because i play games on mine often and having it lag or act up is really annoying.
5|Love it.. It's fantastic.. The only thing I don't like.. Is that it doesn't have the screen mirroring option. I have a samsung smart led tv, and I can't screen mirror it. I hope down the line, there will be an update...
1|Died 2 months after I bought it
3|Samsung cut some corners on this device. No OTG out of the box and its a bit sluggish when playing games. As a productivity tab, its awesome. As a multimedia tab, I'd pay a bit extra for a better processor or graphics.
4|Other than issues with internal memory being primary ( I want the sd card to be primary) this tablet is extremely fast and perfect. My 8 year old picked it right up and mastered it quickly. Galaxy is a great product.
5|Arrived on time. Great Samsung product. Set Up VERY easy. WIFI enabled means no data charges which is a plus! Great for my small business needs. This is a great seller to purchase a Samsung Galaxy tab 4. VERY HAPPY!!
4|Samsung Galaxy Tab is replacing the Nook and my son is very happy with the Tab. It is very fast and the picture is great. Since it has only been a week, I gave the Tablet a 4 star instead of 5 stars. Great price too!
5|I like the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, 7" for several reasons. First, itnis a comfortable size to manage. Next my 5year old grandaughter enjoys the many free games available on it. It is fast and easy to navigate.
3|I purchased in Feb it worked great up until a month ago, now it freezes all the time and I have to restart it. I know other people with the tablets, my sister has the 10" and they all say their tablets freeze.
5|I bought this for my daughter a few months back and the quality of this tablet is comparable to others but its better than the others. I would recommend this product to family and friends. It runs smooth and quick.
5|Battery life is great! I bought 3 of these for Christmas. I am a huge Galaxy lover. I have not had one problem with them and I love how you can add an SD for extra storage. We have not had one complaint about them.
1|I purchased this tablet because it specified that it was new but at three months it wasn't charging. I thought it was the charger and bought a new one and nothing but I can't return it for a refund. Bad purchase.
4|This is a good tablet. Still learning how things work. Easy to figure out most everything. Still have some issues as to why my service provider can't seem to get together with me watching any TV on it yet, though.
1|I had my Galaxy 4 for five months. I loved it, until it stopped working. It wouldn't charge. This is the second Samsung tablet I have had and both of them quit in under a year of working. I won't buy another.
2|Stopped working - dead as a doornail - after just 4 months of use. The return policy is poor on this item. It should last more than a third of a year and should be replaced. Don't waste your money on this product
4|This is my first android item, it does works fine but it's a little bit annoying to have constantly the messages: you haven't scan your tablet, the tablet is consuming a lot of space, the tablet is too hot, etc.
5|I bought my wife a tab 3 it was great. I seen a great deal for this tab 4 here on, amazon so I bought it. If you have the, note 3 it feels and works very similar. Great device, better than the ipad mini to me.
2|I was extremely excited about getting this tablet for my daughter for her birthday, and she was equally excited to receive it. The form and structure of it was what I was expecting, nice glass display, good response from touch, colors looked sharp and everyone was happy. We loaded Netflix, Disney Tsum Tsum, and another game TanTan. I thought everything was fine, until I saw her going back to one of our old cell phones to play this TanTan game. I asker her why, and she said that the game would 'glitch out' on her. I though no way, the tablet should have much better specs than my old Samsung Note 2. I tried it out, and there is a definite delay in most all her games. All her games with motion were sluggish, choppy and moved unpredictably. I thought maybe it was something that she installed without me knowing, so I did a factory reset, and install just one game, Tsum Tsum. Still the same choppy, sluggish mess. I was very disappointed. We own ton of Samsung cell phones and have never had really any issues like this. I am returning the Tab 4, 7" and I don't care if they charge me a restocking fee... I have no use for a poorly made/designed product like that. I give it two stars because it streamed Netflix videos fine, and browsing looked sufficient. We ended up getting an Acer Iconia 8" for the same price and it is leaps and bounds better. The games are smooth, video definition is higher and has a very cool aluminium shell. She is a happy camper now.
3|A good tablet for the cheap price. Not great compared to the more expensive tablets but works well for surfing the web, checking email and skyping. The camera is low quality. Overall, you get what you pay for.
3|Have all the people giving this tablet 5 stars never owned an iPad? This is a low budget, entry level, slow, slow, slow, tablet. I would say it's ok if you're on a budget, but if you have the cash, look elsewhere. For the price, I think it's fair (hence the 3 star rating), but man is it slow. So unresponsive. Every app launch, swipe, or press...there is a lag. We're an Apple family. We have iPhones, iPads, Macbook Pros, and Minis throughout the house (not that you care, but just so you know where I'm coming from). I thought I'd give Android a try just to see what the fuss was about. Bearing in mind this is a very low budget tablet, I had low expectations on it's performance, but wow, this really disappointed me. I mean, my daughter has an old iPad 2 circa 2011, and it is noticeably faster than this. This Tab 4 feels cheap in your hands, like a slab of plastic. I think the screen is made of champagne flute glass as it shattered the first time it was dropped from about 3 feet onto kitchen floor tile. If you're thinking this would be adequate for a child, I would say get a used iPad instead. You may have to pay a premium for Apple products, but they're built better, last longer, and don't come preloaded with Samsung bloatware. I realize this costs about half an iPad Mini and I would say the iPad Mini is twice as good. Again, if you don't have the budget for an iPad or even Nexus tablet, this might be adequate, but keep your expectations low.
4|Just as described in other detailed reviews. The only thing I notice is that the battery doesn't last as long as they say. Mine falls to 50% after just a few (2-3) hours. Other than that a very good tablet.
5|We bought 3 of these for our kids for Christmas. They are fantastic and the kids love them! I would buy a memory card though because they don't have a lot of internal space once you start downloading apps.
2|First of all, Amazon sent me the 10.1 inch tablet instead of the 7-inch I ordered. Although surprised, I was ok with this and Amazon never contacted me about this. So just know that this review applies to the 10.1" version, although I think it would be the same for the 7". I have been satisfied with this table, but have run into one major frustration over the last couple days. I wanted to find out how to connect the tablet to an HDTV (not a SMART TV) via HDMI cable. Sounds simple enough, right? Well, unfortunately it turns out that there is no satisfactory way to do this. The capability to connect to an HDTV via HDMI was inexplicably not built into this tablet, although both earlier and later Samsung Galaxy tablets have this capability. I spent a lot of time trying to find an adaptor that would work. I called Samsung, and they said they don't make an adapter for this tablet, and to go ask at Best Buy. At Best Buy, that's where I found out that the necessary functionality to connect to an HDTV via HDMI was not built into the Galaxy Tab 4s. He said the only solution is Google Chromecast, but this turns out to be unsatisfactory as well, since each app must choose to build in the capability to use Google Chromecast, and the apps that I want to use on the HDTV do not work with Chromecast. So there is literally no way to connect this tablet to my HDTV. Very frustrating and very hard to understand why this is the case.
1|This item froze and stopped working after 1 month. I have tried restarting it but that doesn't work. Sometimes it is frozen and will not even let me turn it off?. Love the tablet when it was functioning.
5|Nothing short of great, runs like a charm though I expect that from Samsung products! Nice clear display, easy access to the SD card slot, light in weight, long battery life & easy to use interface.
4|So far, so good! I am still learning all the things I can do with it. Much different from the Kindle that I had so many problems with. I think I'll truly enjoy it once the learning curve is behind me.
4|It works, and its amazing. The fact that its 8gb and you can't move apps to the SD card without root isn't cool.. But all media can be so I work around that. Over all it is exactly what I was expecting.
5|Nice tablet, wi-fi only. I use my smartphone as hotspot to use tablet outside my home. If you want good pictures stay with your camera, pics are very grainy and dark. For the price this tablet is great.
5|I bought this for my husband after receiving one. We both enjoy our tablets they are convenient. The only issue I have noticed is it randomly restarts at times and be prepared to buy a micro sd card.
5|I bought 2 of these for my 7 and 8 year old. They are great and easy to figure out and the possibilities are nearly endless. Good for games and browsing. So many good things to say about this tablet.
4|this was a gift for my 13 year old. she absolutely loves it and goes everywhere with it. my only critique is that there should be a flash to take pics. maybe there is one and we just can't find it.
5|Perfect size and weight, matches my Note II - Great for travel! Awesome price! 5 stars is NOT enough! Sorry iPad, this one is best all around for us, price size etc... does all the same things too!
4|I'm almost entirely satisfied with this product. Its my first tablet and I really like it except for a few faults. After a couple weeks I noticed there was a little black spot underneath the glass. It's about the size of a single pixel, but its not a dead pixel; it looks like a piece of lint contaminated the clean room during the lamination proces and got stuck below the glass. It's not a big deal, but once I noticed it, I can't unnotice it. Another issue is the proprietary Samsung software is irritating. I know that's kind of subjective, but I suspect many folks will have similar hang-ups. I'm not sure if this is Google's fault or Samsungs, but Google Now doesn't seem to work properly with Google Hangouts (google voice.) on the bright side, the specs stated that this tablet only supports a 32 gigabyte external memory card, but I threw a 64 gigabyte card in there and it works properly. Update: About two months after purchase, the Samsung power adapter stopped working. At first I was worried the tablet was broken. The charging icon had a blinking lightning bolt on it and the tablet was refusing to charge. After trying various power adapters and cables I have certainly narrowed it down to the power adapter that shipped with this tablet as being the problem. Not a significant issue, but it is indeed tacky. It doesn't yet change my 4-star rating of this tablet.
3|Good for everything else but games.. If I'm on any game the tablet gets super hot within a couple mins and a bit laggy (coc) so if you plan on getting this for simply games I would not recommend
4|Amazing table. Very nice screen. The size is ideal. I mainly use it for reading. Very good buy. The only thing I don't like is that the OS takes too much memory to run, 3.28GB. After that great buy!
5|Amazing tablet for an even better price. Durable, though not the most powerful they are defiantly worth the money if you're looking for a quality, reliable, and affordable tablet. We just upgrade
4|Absolutely have fallen in love with this tablet. It's a great product for a great price. And I love how you can add storage space with a SD card. Definitely worth it for the money you are spending!
4|I like the tab a lot, except for the fact that it keeps dropping wifi. Web consensus seems to be the problem is with Kitkat,, not with the tab, but the rating stays a 4 until the problem is fixed.
5|Perfect for my daughter, I wish it had a little more internal storage however, only 8 GB and some of that is used by the OS. I knew that before i bought it however and have since bought a sd card.
5|Perfect smaller size tablet. This was a gift for my 54 yr old mom who already had an android phone and she loves it and hasn't had any trouble figuring out how to use it once I set it up for her
1|Purchased Tablet on May 1st and by July it stopped working after very little use! We have 3 other Galaxy tabs and haven't had any issues with them however they were purchased in store not online.
4|Daughter loves it although we have had issues with the charger. I would go with one that has more storage as its a pain to put copyrighted material on an SD card that will work with this tablet.
5|Purchased 3 Tab 4's for my grand children! They all love them. They were well packaged and they all worked out of the box! They say the camera is great and the picture quality is terrific.
1|The tablet worked fine for about a day, then it began to act up. The display would become distorted, then power off. When it came back on, the display was blank and black. The only reason I could tell it was on was by pressing the Home button to see that the backlight comes on. I contacted Samsung and had to factory reset the tablet. Once that issue was resolved, the tablet began to disconnect, then reconnect to Wi-Fi every 30 seconds or so. Contacted Samsung again and another factory reset. If the issue happened again, they referred me to the Samsung experts at Best Buy. As luck would have it, the Wi-Fi issue began again as well as the screen issue. I went to Best Buy and they were going to attempt to flash the tablet. I received a model that was not serviceable in the US. The Samsung guy pointed out that instead of saying "Model" on the back, it said "Modelo". Also, there was a "NOM" logo/icon on the back that was not on the Galaxy Tabs in store. Since it was unable to be flashed, the only resolution I was given was to return the tablet for a refund, although it was well within warranty. I'm sure this is an isolated incident, but this was my experience with the tablet. I'll purchase one from Best Buy instead, just to be sure if anything happens, it will be able to be fixed in the US.
5|bright and clear display....very easy to set up and operate...device is gift for 8 year old...he loves it...if it is broken or fails in an unreasonable way or amount of time will update review
4|When I first purchased this device I was worried that it would not be very powerful and I was pleasantly surprised upon using it to find that it was extremely fast and was able to run most of the games I used (non-tegra hd of course). With two gigabytes of RAM, it performs most task with ease and took almost anything I threw at it. The display was amazing and I was especially happy about this because I use this to watch videos, movies, and tv shows. Another reason that I love this tablet that is often overlooked is the fact that it supports 5 ghz WI-FI, making it stream high-quality music and videos much faster than most android tablets of this price. As far as aesthetics go, It's beautiful. I was afraid that getting the white would not be wise because dirt and things of that nature show much more but I was happy to see that it did not easily get dirty and even when it was it was extremely easy to clean. The chrome finish on the white casing gave it a very sleek, high-end look. The size also makes it extremely easy to bring places and hold comfortably. The only reason I gave this four stars rather than five was because the storage space was not very large and the "touchwiz" custom ROM takes up a few gig's however, after a little ADB magic I was able to install and run applications on the external SD card which solved my problem.
4|I love my Galaxy Tab4 from Samsung. It is a fantastic product delivered by Amazon.com at amazing prices. It is belong to Android 4.4 Kit Kat OS family with seamless transitions and features of the product. It comes with a 1.2 GHz quad-core processor. This processor speed is enough to take care of all sorts of smart phone needs and utilities. I found this product to be quite easy and firm to hold from the point of view of grip and it tells about the maker’s conscious effort to design something which is comfortable and not too massive. This tablet is fantastic as it makes you replace your laptop in practically for anything. I write my letters, my text or assignments on it with quite ease. The product may not be good for those who are looking for a proper laptop but this is so because it is not a laptop and a tablet. The High-resolution, 7.0-inch display is extremely vivid in giving the details. This device is allowing me to do all that I can. It is allowing me to read e-books, watch movies, play games, browse the web, and do much more. I am also finding the multi-user mode quite helpful as my cousin also shares this tablet with me. With the range under $150, this device is priced competitively is a great find at this price. Buy it if you want to move freely without carrying your laptop. Buy it for its sheer light weightiness.
5|I bought this for my daughter she absolutely loves it. I love how it small but not too small it has the latest software and the Google store is great. I would buy this product again and again
5|I love this tablet, but i do wish it had less bloatware OR a bit more memory available. Can get some slowdown on more memory-intensive apps, but a great tablet. Would definitely recommend it.
3|The only thing that I didn't like was that the charger that came with it didn't work, so I used a charger fit for a speaker box and it took a long time to charge and add games for my sister.
4|Its a tab.It works for now.Cannot go wrong with Samsung but in the same breath also would like to mention that cannot compare to Apple products. It wins hands down in pricing. Camera is bad.
5|Light weight, easy to use. I recommend getting an otterbox and screen guards to protect it. The battery lasts all day even will contant use. Very fast on web. An excellent size and price.
5|This tablet is highly powerful. I am able to use a lot more apps that I could not on my old tablet. I really do like the graphics on this tablet and I look forward to using it more often.
5|This tablet is fantastic for someone who does not intend on downloading a ton of apps. It's small enough to be portable and large enough to be useful. I would recommend to anyone I know.
2|I bought this from Amazon and I have had it for 5 months now. I purchased if for reading and for the wifi (internet searches and apps: Facebook, YouTube, some game apps). I previously owned a Nexus 7 for 2 years and a Kindle Fire HD for 1 day before I returned it. The wifi was fine up until the last few months. This device must have the cheapest antenna, because I can barely connect to the internet and searching for anything takes at least 3 minutes, or, it fails to connect and the page never loads. It is really disappointing because being able to use the wifi was one of the main reasons why I got the tablet. I usually get annoyed and switch over to the wifi on my phone (even though I would rather read off of the 7inch screen of my tablet than my tiny phone screen), and everything is fast and how my tablet use to be like. Pros: Easily syncs up with existing google accounts etc. Nice 7inch screen with good resolution and nice overall appearance. When the wifi was working this was a great tablet I love having a book with me all the time, a good tablet for reading (not good for reading outside because of screen glare). Cons: Wifi is dying Poor quality video and photos (pictures and video are unusable, even for just posting on Facebook)
2|Great unit but is very slow. Not sure why. But doesn't compare to Apple Product which I hoped it would . However for the price it is great. But needs a faster processor to compete.
4|So far this has been a very good device. I got it on Cyber Monday deal for my daughter and we both really like it. The parental security features work well and I feel like I have control over what she can access and be exposed to. She enjoys watching movies (in great clarity), listening to music, and playing her games on it. The size is perfect, the quality is what I expected from Samsung, and the speed is adequate for what i purchased (can always be faster). The 8GB of memory that is comes with can be less than ideal but this device offers a feature where you can add a micro SD card to it. 8GB is small but the fact that you can expand the size is a huge plus over the iPad and other devices! I purchased two 32GB micro SD cards for it and loaded it with movies and music. If you keep this type of data on the SD cards it will allow for you to keep the internal HD open for game installs and other types of apps that need to be accessed a little faster by the tablet. Overall this is a highly recommended device for children or those who do the basic things that the average computer and tablet user does. On a side note, I highly recommend the Fintie Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 Case if you are purchasing this for kids. it is very rugged and fits the device well.
4|its my 57 year old husbands 1'st computer. with my granddaughters help he is finding it well worth it to learn new things!he's very [old school]so this was a great incentive for him.
5|My three year old can't get enough of it and operates it better than I do. Apps load well and it's very flexible. Well worth the money for a portable computer/communications device.
5|It's a Samsung & just works. Use it for listening to my audiobook collection while driving. It connects easily to my cars blue-tooth. Very satisfied after two weeks of ownership.
1|POS broke in less than 3 months. There is nothing that we did to cause tgis.. The POS will not charge. It has not been dropped. We did not get any water on it. It's just a POS.
3|Tablet works great, but 8gb is just not enough for this system... It limits greatly the amount of apps that can be installed to the limited amount of internal space availably...
1|Gone bad within 3 months. Bad customer-care representative. Though they repaired free of cost! My Nexus 7 is WAY better than this samsung product. I won't recommend this one.
4|I rated Samsung Galaxy tab 4 four stars because it is a good overall tablet. This is my 3rd tablet, my first was a Kindle fire 7 inch, my second was an iPad 3Rd generation10 in. and now the Samsung Galaxy tab 4 7 in. Model. This 7 inch model fits perfectly around my hand and is lightweight compared to my heavier iPad. The speed and performance for general web browsing is excellent, although I am not a heavy game player, so I could not review on the speed of those games. The flaws, is that Depending on the site, you can not accurately scroll up and down, example Hotmail or other websites. Like the iPad, you can not view flash videos, so when your on facebook, you can't see them or download flash player. Or play certain app.s like Dream Box mathematics App. This charges quickly but the battery seems to use up even when it's idle and not in use. The battery is not as efficient as the IPad. Overall, I'm not a tech specialist, but am overall pleased with the price of $139 for this speedy Samsung Tablet. It does the job for Web browsing, light APP usage, checking emails and Facebook. I love the overall feel, look and performance of my new tsblet, well worth the price even though it have minor flaws.
5|Bought this Tab in April, I have had no problem with it at all. Use it at night while watching TV so I'm in same room as my husband. Also use it for reading my Kindle books.
2|This tablet was laggy and lacking in wifi connection consistency and response time. The screen would freeze up very often when trying to touch an app to launch, touch a text area to type, switch from the letters on the keyboard to the symbols, or even trying to enter a lock screen passcode. That last lockup would take at least 30 seconds every time with the screen flashing on and off twice. Abysmal. I know it's a fraction of the price of our old iPad Mini retina display and it has something like 6 times the RAM, but holy cats, the iPad blows it out of the water every single time in usability. I cannot go back to barely-limping-along performance. I guess there's a reason we shelled out the big bucks for the iPad (and for an entry-level Macbook Air for that matter), and that reason is probably the software Apple produces. When you want fast and responsive and reliable, vote with your wallet and don't skimp. Other negatives--the screen looked horrible after using a retina display, the internal RAM filled up in less than a day, the chrome looking plastic edging around the screen chips and dents very easily, and the back got very hot over where I'm assuming the processor is located playing a Facebook game.
5|I really love it so far! I am able to use a blue tooth keyboard with it and I don't have to carry my laptop with me to school every week! I love it and highly recommend it.
5|works great and user friendly. pretty much like my phone (galaxy S 3) It comes loaded with so many apps I haven't opened some of them and I've had this for several months.
5|I bought it for my mum on mothers day. She loves it. My mum uses it rather lightly, basically Facebook and some simple gaming. So far it has no problem. Affordable price.
4|For $158 (at the time I purchased this), this is a great 7" tablet. It's not too light, not too heavy, and has a good, solid feel. Everything I've run on it so far has run really smooth and haven't had any issues thus far. Pros: - Fits in my pant's pocket if I need it to - Micro SD slot - Has a lot of the common things in most tablets: camera, WiFi, bluetooth, GPS, etc - Speaker is loud - Backing feels really good, not slippery - Android and apps run great and very smooth Cons: - Camera could have been better, 3 MP on the rear is a bit lower than what I'd expect out of Samsung. 6-8 MP would have been nice. Fortunately I don't plan on taking too many pictures with this. - No camera flash - Rear facing speaker. Also when watching a video and using the rear speaker for audio, sometimes you can really hear the audio better in 1 ear than the other. - No light sensor = no auto brightness option - Only 8 gigabytes built in storage To me, all of those cons are only worth the 1 star loss. This really is a great tablet and I am very satisfied with my purchase.
3|Not as good as the previous model, the microphone doesn't work anymore, doesn't have a c alculator that you c an use in the same screen as other window you have open.
2|Stopped working just a few months after I got it I'm super disappointed and I have taken very good care of it. I tried contacting the company and they never answered.
5|Bought it for my daughter and after a couple months of use she loves it. It hasnt had any problems. Holds a charge very well and multitasking is handled like a champ.
4|What can you say....It's an excellent tablet with a great reputation. I use it for watching videos, email, and mild internet surfing. It is a great bridge between using a smart phone and breaking out the laptop when you are sitting around the house. Everything works as advertised; I can use it for days on a single battery charge (although I don't use it everyday); and the screen res is way better than what I need/use it for. My only complaint would be that it could really use a better camera. If you are the kind of person that carries a tablet everywhere, takes pictures, and blogs/journals about your experiences....then I might look elsewhere (unless you are cool with a camera that only works decently in perfect light conditions with minimal resolution). For the casual user though, this can't be beat. The price is right; the quality is great; Samsung is reputable; and it just feels and looks good in your hands. Make sure you pair it with a high quality screen protector right away. Like I said, for the money, the display is great so don't take any chances with it. Just for the sake of saying so...I have used this for about 3 months now and am extremely happy.
5|Love the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. The battery life on it is amazing! Worth buying from this seller because it felt like a fast shipment to me. Especially to Hawaii.
5|I'm satisfied with my tab, however I never got the memory card that was suppose to be there, n it plainly says that on the box , there's a memory card included.
5|Great tablet- great seller too! Better than kindle- much more capability, but it's a google-centric device, which is annoying for me, as I refuse to use anything Google on purpose. I reset the damned thing 4 times before I felt comportble with the order things were donein order to protect my provacy. However, if you want to delete your Google Play account, you loose all of your apps, so I'm not compfrtable with that. Unlike with Kindle (same price for this as the 7", really and you can install anything Android on it, plus it has an SD-card slot). The screen is just as good as a regular Kindle Fire (maybe not as nice as my HDX). Whomever said the screen isn't good enough for Kindle books must have severe vision problems. It's exactly the same, so don't let that stop you. If you are tired of being in the world of Amazon, decide if you want to be in the world of Google instead. Their Play store is GARBAGE and privacy seems much more of an issue, but you can install a VPN and it has full Android capabilities unlike Kindle. I wish Kindle would function as a real tablet instead of an amazon machine.
1|Wish i could give it no stars. Not user friendly. Full of ads. And good luck surfing the net without being redirected to the google play store every 2 seconds.
5|I have these for my kids because they are affordable. They work great and get the job done. It keeps the kids from trying to grab our phones, and much cheaper.
3|When a non-tech savvy friend asked me to set up her tab 4, I was totally impressed by its speedy wireless capability--it picked up wireless fast, even before my ipad 4. I then sold my previous Samsung 7 inch model (which I kept in my purse for its GPS), with lousy wireless but with a roomy 32 gb drive, to purchase this model since what I needed most was a gps unit with reliable wifi. Unfortunately, the tab 4 7 inch does not come bigger than 8 gb. AND don't think that the SD card helps out here--the kit kat OS does not allow the transfer of apps to an external card the way previous OS do. (Thank you, Google, for this limited OS.) So I had to give up previously purchased apps because they do not fit on this device. At least I have a small device that actually does what I need it to do most--reliable GPS and speedy and reliable wireless in a small package for a purse--but NO ROOM FOR APPS, even on an SD card. That means I can't buy any apps from you, Samsung. Not even from YOU, Google. WHAT WERE YOU THINKING?
2|Very nice. Slow on apps and the Internet even with my amazing internet provider. I exchanged and still the same thing. Returning and getting my money back.
3|I've only had my tablet for 3 days and the speakers are not working. I can only hear with headphones plugged in. Please tell me there is a simple solution.
5|I love this tablet. I did not want another apple product manufactured so it is worn out by the time the new version comes out just so I can spend more money. I love the fact that I can use a SD card with it. I love that I can use multi screen to get more done in a small amount of time. Most of the apps are easier to use. Watching videos is great on it. The screen is not super small so I can see and the speakers are better than the ones on my IPod touch. it is a joy to use. Editing photos is a breeze and it takes flawless pictures. I love that I can upload things to OneDrive Dropbox and GoogleDrive to save space and I don't have to take things off of my device to make room for things I want to add. I love that I can select text from a webpage and sent it right to my OneNote account.. I write books and poetry and the many office apps help me write to my potential. I'm glad that I bout this product. the &-inch is perfect for me because I can conceal it in any bag and I can operate it really well. It is not big and bulky. I can't see my life without now that I own it.
5|Perfect size for my 2 year old. Great picture, battery life is good and most of all the look on my son's face when we received the tablet was priceless!
5|I should give it a 4 star just because I can't get my 5 year old off of it. It's melting her brain!!!!! Lol. relly though, it's very nice. Like it a lot.
5|Very nice quality and great customer service. Emailed them in regards to a minor problem and they emailed me right back. No scratches and works great!
5|Love it. Works great!
5|This is so awesome to use. It is very user friendly for a beginner or someone who knows the Galaxy phones. I would recommend this to anybody. Love it
1|Product isnt working properly. Contacted seller to determine options since it is after the 30 days. If they are abe to assist I will change my rating
5|Samsung always has the best tablets. Got this for my son. My daughter has the fire and she likes the samsung a lot better as do I. Plenty of storage.
5|I love my tablet, nice light weight device, fast and pretty to look at. Seller is awesome product arrived ahead of schedule will buy from them again.
5|I strongly recommend this to anyone with a Budget. Great, easy to use features. Features Milti-user and Window, 8GB Flash storage (1GB Ram) And more!
5|I bought this for my teenage son last year and it still work great...so I be decided to buy 2 more for my toddlers, with protective casing ofcourse.
5|I had an 8" samsung tab 4 that lasted me only 7 months. I decided to downgrade and purchase this item. It works well thus far and I recommend.
5|I have a Tab 3, so I bought the Tab 4 for all of my family for Christmas. They love it - and that is saying a lot since they are all Apple people.
3|Would be a lot better if it included instructions on how to use it. Not everyone in the world is able to figure things out without instructions.
5|This is my hubby's tablet....we bought this after his cheapie went in the garbage can due to extreme frustration because it simply did not work right. We decided (finally) that you do indeed get what you pay for and to go ahead and bite the bullet and spend the money for a tablet that we knew would be a vast improvement over the off-brand piece of *%#& that we had bought previously. WOW.....this Samsung....what a great tablet. This wonderful thing makes hubby happy. He no longer has to sit and wait long frustrating minutes for downloads, he can surf with ease and I don't hear those long, drawn out SIGHS anymore. He uses it all the time and so far has had no complaints. I have the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 so I am actually a little bit jealous that he has the later model. :) We are very, very pleased with our Samsung Galaxy tablets and would highly recommend them to anyone! Don't waste your money on those cheap pieces of garbage out there, if you are going to spend money, just get the best and you will be happy you did.
5|Samsung has done it again. They are releasing tablets at very periodic intervals. Samsung's fourth generation of Galaxy Tab series is as expected and for this price point phenomenal. I have been using Galaxy Tab 2 and 3 and I am very much impressed with Galaxy line of devices. I got to play with all of the three Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 series for few days. I like them that I am getting all three and selling last year’s model. First, if you have not had any tablets before, Get THIS! Yes, Get this 7". It is ideal for plane trips, long journeys. I had used a 7" Tablet on a long journey to listen to songs and read epub books (Aldiko) and it was a very pleasant experience. 7" form factor is lightweight, compact and great. If you are a bit experienced and can afford it, I highly recommend the 8". In my opinion 8" is the maximum value for the money and features, but 7” has the best pixel density of all three Galaxy 4 series. If you are just starting out 7” is great and prices will FALL furthe... Read more
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (7-Inch) is my first and only tablet, and I love it. It works well, was affordable, and I have never had problems with it.
5|The product supports micro SDXC UHS -I card pro plus 64gb . Before you put the card in, make sure to turn off the tablet. It will work.
5|Love it works great way better then any other cheap tab I have tried. I was a little worried to try it because I'm a apple girl but I love it.
5|Just the perfect size for me. The camera takes great pictures. The Nook download is what I wanted and I am very happy with the back lighting.
4|This is a decent, low cost, no frills tablet. The screen isn't the sharpest, it is not the lightest or thinnest, the processor isn't the latest model, the camera isn't the best, but it is only $200 so it is hard to complain. I thank Samsung for including an SD card slot, not having one is a deal breaker for me. Some companies would rather not include one and then charge you an extra $100 for 16 additional GB's of storage -- that is basically a slap in the face when you can get 64GB sd cards for less than $50. The one thing this tablet is missing is an LED notification light! Not having one is a huge disappointment. On most android phones you get a small LED that will flash a certain color when you have notifications, but on this tablet I constantly have to pick it up and turn it on to see if I missed any notifications when I stepped away from my desk.
1|It was supposed to be new but the box was open and the film protection was pealed off. It looks like it was used. Disappointed. ........:-(.
3|Bought it for myself, but most apps run slowly on it. I have since given it to my daughter to watch movies on and it works great for that.
5|Really great tablet let's me do social media, email, watch TV and videos. Good speed and high quality tablet. Samsung is solid all around.
4|Before you buy this you must understand what you are getting. This is a basic tablet for browsing, email, netflix, youtube, reddit etc. I use it at home instead of my note 4 because it feels great in the hand and has a larger screen. Samsung did a great job here because there is almost NO bloatware. Once you go into developer options and turn off animations, replace the launcher (I use Nova) and replace lock screen and wallpaper it becomes a great little workhorse. Battery life is great. I gave it 4 stars because the only thing I would change is it needs a little better speaker but I use my old lg 750 bluetooth just for this tablet and that fixes that problem. This is no gaming tablet. I have the Nvidia Shield for that. I use this tablet a lot more than my expensive tablets because its light and feels good in the hand. I plan on staying with the tab line as long as Sammy doesn't screw it up and try to make it too fancy. I got a white on to match my Note 4 and I love them both.
5|Have this tablet for over a year now and it still works the same as the day I bought it. I love Samsung products. The never disappoint me
3|The device is functional. But after using the Fire phone and the Kindle Fire HD for a while, Galaxy seems inconvenient and not intuitive.
5|Another excellent product from Samsung. Very high quality manufacturing. The processor is very snappy and performs flawlessly.
5|happy with purchase
5|This thing works fine. My 84 year old mom loves it for showing her great grandchild's pictures to her friends. There was a small issue when I was first shopping - one of Amazon's vendors had this for a lower price, I read the blurb VERY carefully, and it wasn't until I finalized checkout that they casually mentioned that what they were selling was a refurbished unit with limited warranty. I had to then cancel the order, and hope the cancellation went though, which it did, but the entire incident was soooo unnecessary. This sort of thing is happening more and more often on Amazon - vendors neglecting to mention their goods are refurbs, or that shipping will be six to eight weeks from China, or the 12 five star positive glowing reviews all have the same spelling and syntax mistakes and are clearly plants. I know it's almost impossible for Amazon to keep an eye on every vendor, but the less I trust you, the more likely I am to go elsewhere.
1|Item never worked. Amazon would not replace it and referred me to a Samsung website that malfunctioned. Broke my 11 year olds heart :(
5|You can make Phone's call with this tablet also but ONLY on WiFi but you have to get the app which is (Grove Ip lite) on the play store
5|Samsung Galaxy is known as a quality product. And it's true. This tablet is great! Works properly and affordable. I like it very much.
5|My daughter, who didn't want a tablet as she has a phone that does "everything", LOVES THIS!! A great surprise Christmas gift!
4|I bought this tablet primarily for bluetooth music streaming using spotify. The tablet does support the aptX bluetooth protocol despite not being listed on the websites etc on the topic, the aptX logo is right on the back of the box for this tablet (see photo). Streaming works great to my NAD - D 3020 Integrated Amp which also supports aptX. I will say initially I experienced some very frustrating issues with wifi on this tablet and my home network setup which was pretty standard. There are numerous similar instances described by people in forums etc just google it. The fix that seemed to work on my end was to change the security protocol on my Airport Extreme router to WPA/WPA2 which enables both the newer AES and older TKIP encryption. Previously I had it it just on the AES option. I also had to do a hard reset of the tablet. Once that was done and the setting change it seems to work well on wifi.
5|This tablet is big and bold! The icons are colorful and bright, very easy to see. This tablet charges quickly and is user friendly!
3|I love the size and the screen resolution is great for the price. But I am used to an iPhone, and while I enjoy many features of this I miss more from apple. Pro: customization, you really aren't locked into a certain design and you can intermixed apps and widgets side by side. Con: the camera is terrible and the sound quality is definitely what you paid for. Additionalky, it's WiFi only, which doesn't come in handy for airport travel. I find this unit, without an extra memory SD card to be very slow. The touchscreen is alow to respond or often unresponsive. I will say I enjoy the Google aspect of this immensely. I haven't decided on if I will keep the tablet or save up after the holidays for an iPad air. It is great, but I can see why it might be one of the more affordable tablets on the market right now.
5|Great tablet. Works good. Looks just like the galaxy phones but bigger. Is much better that the cheap tablets and not badly priced.
4|Works like a charm. Supported most of the android apps I use on other devices but not all which is why I gave it a 4 instead of a 5
5|My wife loves to sit back in bed and play games or go online on her Galaxy phone. I bought her a 9.7" tablet running CyanoGen mod Android but she felt it was too heavy and bulky to hold. Her phone I felt was too small to use while at home and relaxing. A phone with a 4.7-5"~ screen is fine, but I felt that when at home and you have other options it is better to find a compromise. I purchased this Tab 4 7" as a surprise for her and she loves it. She uses it all the time and at only 0.61lbs. it is lightweight and the perfect size to comfortably hold. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7" is a great tablet. It falls in the middle for overall innovation and quality. It has a decent quad-core processor, is running the newest Android 4.4 KitKat and has a high quality screen while at the same time not being overloaded with stuff that is not needed if all you want is a good, solid tablet to play games, watch movies and go online.
1|Used for 2 months then it stopped charging. We have it in a rugged case, it was well taken care of. I have bought cheap tablets before and was happy with them for my kids. My son is older and responsible enough so I thought he needed a Samsung. I have not been so disappointed with an electronic before this. I e-mailed Ocean Reef electronics for advise on how to get it to come on and they just said too bad so sad, we only accept returns within 30 days, no advise offered on what I may be able to do to get the thing to charge and turn on. I had to replace this in January with an RCA Viking Pro after buying this Samsung for my sons b-day at the end of October. He went through most of December without one since we gave his cheapo one to a neighbor girl. I am overall very disappointed with this purchase. I would not recommend a Samsung tablet to anyone. Please comment if you know of a way to get this tablet to charge again. Thanks.
5|My dad loves reading and was buying a bunch of books which were taking up a lot of space for him. We bought this with a bunch of ebooks for him so he can have a great libray of books anywhere he went without the need to carry a bunch of books in a bag or luggage. He loves it and uses it often. He also checks his email and browses the internet on this so we kind of wish we had gotten him the 4g enabled one so he could use that instead of having to tether from his phone. The device itself works great and is very responsive as you would expect from a Samsung android device. Did some good research before buying this and it defintely was the best buy at the time. Not a fan of iPads as the eBooks on that is not transferable to other devices and only works via iBooks. I'm sure my dad would've also been frustrated using an iPad since he likes his widgets and the fact that he can add and remove items on his launcher pages.
5|The best tablet she's had so far and she's using it on everything reading, movies, games and Web surfing thank you for everything
5|This tablet is amazing. It's fast and bright, and has just as much functionality as a laptop. I am actually using it right now ;)
5|I bought two, one for myself and another for my girlfriend and we use them all the time. They are great for watching Netflix :-)
2|I bought this brand new in March 2015, worked wonderfully for about 3-4 months. Looked sleek and very nice. At 3 months, the internal speakers broke (when I put in headphones no sound plays). Also the alarm feature broke. I'd set an alarm and it'd never go off. At about 4 months it stopped charging correctly (I had to literally hold my charger to the tablet for it to charge). At 5 months it started to randomly shut itself off from the WiFi and at first I thought maybe my WiFi was just slow (even though the tablet never did this before...). So I even upgraded my WiFi and for about a week that helped but now it's too the point where it's shutting itself off from the WiFi constantly. I can't do anything with it anymore. Can't watch movies, play games, listen to music, nothing! I originally bought this because I have many friends who swear up and down galaxy tablets are the way to go. This tablet however is just trash.
5|First let me say I'm a Apple/Mac fan when it comes to tablets and phones and mp3 players, but this unit has caught me eye everytime I goto Best Buy. I also stumbled upon the newest Nook; its this tablet. Not being able to bear it any longer I took the plunge. Even though I'm Android challenged, I really love this thing. Games are nice an clear and sharp, reading my Kindle books using the Kindle app is what I bought it for mainly. I've even tried watching a movie through Amazon on this tablet and again was impressed. I know the hardest thing with Samsung is to choose which one, because it seems like they are new one released every month. This is just the right weight and just the right size for my hands. I only wish it had more of a grip/sticky/tacky feel to the backside to make it even easier to hold on to. And because it is Samsung, there aren't nearly the amount of options for cases/covers as their are for iPad.
5|Love this tablet. I had a different brand before .This tablet is fast with great resolution for watching movies I just love it.
2|I bought this tablet for me son as an inexpensive emulator device. He enjoys playing NES, SNES, and other retro games. The 4.4 android OS does not support using external bluetooth console controllers, so my original idea of pairing my Wiimotes or PS3 controllers with it was no good. There is no current solution or workaround. My next idea was to pair up the PS3 remote via USB OTG...alas, the hardware does not support OTG cables (which also nerfs any idea of plugging in an external storage device.) So, I bought an iPega bluetooth controller which actually works really well with this tablet...but when I tried to plug it into the TV for mirroring, no-go. It does not support MHL for the micro-SD to HDMI interface. This is a great tablet for browsing the internet or reading books...but the lack of power and losing all of the hardware options available in the 10" model makes it a hard sell.
2|Sadly, I am not happy at all with this tablet, just received today. Screen responsiveness is terrible, as I have to hit icons several times for them to open. Scrolling in Google Chrome is painfully slow, herky-jerky, and almost unstable. Google Chrome is not even rendering sites in mobile. The UI is god awful. An example: the Contacts app splits between a list and the card--thus rendering both cut in half, and hard to see. Color interface on the Calendar is like a child's dream--atrocious rainbow of pastel Smarties colors. Buttons to start, and volume rocke,r are also unresponsive. I'm thinking of sending this back. By comparison, my last tablet was a Nexus 7 (2013), that was fantastic. Also I use a Nexus 6 mobile phone--again, wonderful. I should also add that the screen resolution on this Samsung is not sharp. And here's what's notable: the Tab 4 has a very good build, feels solid.
5|I bought these for my 2 youngest sons last year, and one for my nurse daughter this year. The boys like this tablet much better than their friends' pricy apple tablets because they find them easier to use. Also, they can download free apps without having to sign up through the i-store and give a credit card number even for a free app. They frequently pull out their tablets to look up something on the internet; they also play games on them, and one has a snapchat account (no smart phone for someone who can't pay for it). My daughter has been using hers to look up medications and similar things, and is quite pleased with its ease of use. I'm no tablet expert, and so can't speak to the technical aspects of it. Then again, my kids are just average people who don't want to have to be tech-geniuses to use their devices. This tablet meets their needs very nicely without being terribly complex.
5|Really satisfied with the size and external appearance. I've not used it as it is a gift for Christmas. Hope everything is Ok
5|Exactly what I was looking for. The tablet performs perfectly and is very clear. I would definitely recommend this product.
5|This is a good tablet for the money. I would recommend it for someone who does not want to spend a lot of money on an iPad.
4|This is a great entry level tablet with the great resolution and Android KitKat. It is not the most powerful, but it works.
5|It is nice. I should appreciate Amazon because the first time was defective and they replace this item even after 3 months.
5|Bought it for my wife as a gift, but I first tried it for a couple of weeks, and it's simply an awesome Tablet. The best I have ever purchased and tried. Great quality in video, photo, sound, (everything you can think of), wifi range is spectacular, I can get wifi signal even where a Samsung Galaxy Note5 can't get it. There are absolutely no cons for this tablet. All are pros. 6-stars rating for manufacturer and seller. And for the price, you won't find any other like it in the market. An extra information for consumers is that in specs says it only supports up to 32 Gb of microSD card, but in fact, if you use a Samsung 64 GB microSD card (Samsung 64GB EVO Class 10 Micro SDXC) of up to 48 MB/s, also sold by Amazon for just $23.98 dollars, but I bought it somewhere else at a higher price, It will work flawlessly. I didn't try a 128 Gb microSD card, so I cannot account for it.
1|Junk. So much that I can't even use it to type this review. Comparing it to a first generation iPad mini, the quad core that it claims takes exponentially longer to process apps, search on the web, pretty much everything. It freezes/delays every single time I use it, games don't work properly on the touch screen and jump glitching the entire time. These issues are not there with any apple product that I have used. I have done side by side comparisons and now the only thing I use it for is a large calculator, and even that is a bit slow. I have a 5 year old htc hero that works faster than this horrible tablet. My 4 year old Asus tablet is considerably faster. I gave it a fair chance and continue to be disappointed. The only good thing is the battery life isn't dismal. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone and even my 3 year old realizes that it is junk. Very disappointed Samsung.
5|Use it every day for reading the newspaper and checking e-mails. Also like it for traveling. Just the right size for me.
5|great tablet i love that i can move many apps to my sd card i am a little pissed at all the bloatware that i cant remove
5|This is my third Samsung device. I buy them because they work like they should. Spend a little more and avoid headaches.
2|Decent tablet overall, nice size, good quality build. Inexpensive. A LOT slower then my iPad air (but also 1/5th the price). If you want a small little tablet to browse the web and read email, this will work nicely. Specifically for me it didn't work. I'm using a 3DR Telemetry radio to connect to a quad copter (IRIS). The 3DR Radios need the USB Host Controller (OTG) to connect to the DroidPlanner app. It turns out the USB Host Controller is only included on the 8" and larger tablets. I'm frustrated that Samsung cut out a feature on the 7" tablet but nowhere on any of the main feature charts or in the documentation did it indicate that the USB Host Controller OTG isn't included.
5|Great tablet for the price. Screen could be a little more sensitive, sometimes have to press harder than I am used to.
5|I love love my new tablet the sharpness of the screen it's easy to navigate if I can use you know it is a good product
4|This is a nice mid-range tablet. I purchased it for my brother, who is handicapped. It is light and easy to handle. The size is perfect - it's easy for him to touch the icons. The 10" tablets are too big and unwieldy for him, and the smaller ones are hard for him to navigate with the limited motion in his hands. It's also big enough for him to watch streaming video comfortably. I love that this enables me to Skype him all the time. He is hard-of-hearing, and it's hard to talk to him on the phone. Skype works great on this device. It also gives him access to all the apps in the Play Store, so it helps him pass the time with games and other things he's interested in. This is an excellent choice if you are looking for a good tablet and don't want to spend a lot of money. It has all the basics in a nice little package.
3|Liked the tablet, size, and android system. The problem was I didn't have sound. Spent almost an hour and a half on Christmas day with Samsung support, they were very nice and helpful, but could not fix the problem. By fooling with settings, volume control and using a trick I found on line, sometimes I could get sound on Netflix, it was very low and if I changed screens or movie, I would lose it again. Finally they told me the tablet had a problem and return it for repairs, however, they said since it was only 2 days old, to return it to Amazon, Amazon was great, downloaded shipping label, reboxed it, took to UPS the next day, had my payment refunded to my credit card the next day. Since I like the tablet and the price, except for lack of sound, I am going to purchase another one and hopefully it won't have a problem with the sound.
5|Excelent Product
5|excelente tablet
5|Bright clear high res display, easy to set up and use, multi-tasks nicely. Front and rear facing cameras work well.
1|This smart phone worked like a charm for about 10 days and then it crashed, and I mean all the way. Went on the internet to look for help and tried everything possible to fix the problem. Nothing worked and I couldn't access anything. I even tried a factory reset to no avail. I couldn't even get into the device to delete my personal info. Fortunately, during my internet search I learned how to use the 'emergency' boot (can't remember what it's called) and so was able to get into the phone that way. Amazon was amazing and gave me a full refund with no problem. Thank you Amazon! I would like to say though that I think I may have just gotten a lemon. I had done a lot of homework before I purchased and had read many positive reviews. Nevertheless, based on my personal experience with the phone I must give it one star.
4|Although not the top of the line, I was in dire need of a new tablet to replace my three-year old tablet. Bought this at my local Best Buy, and it was Something I wanted. Upon booting up, I noticed one or two apps that came with the device stopped responding. Then came Action Launcher 3 telling me there isn't enough space for wallpaper. Mind you I have inserted a Micro SD card to increase capacity. This fixed the problem and I was a happy camper. Battery life is much better than my Epic 4G touch. I was quite hesitant on whether to buy the Apple iPad or the Galaxy Tab. Since I also have Fitbit and wanted to sync via Bluetooth than using the wireless dongle that came with it. Best purchase ever. I have yet to see if it holds up after normal use. I plan only to do some light browsing and reading for University classes.
5|I recieved at exactly nine pm as you stated earlier. I like amazon they keep their words. Product in good quality
5|Good tool for my kids entretainment, to carry and use everywear. Must have a good protection case, if kids use it
5|best tablet i had so far, i replaced it an asus tablet that lasted 1 year and had many issues... love this tablet
4|Pros: Durable Inexpensive Lightweight Bright display Cons: Battery Charging Speed sd card size Camera quality bloatware installed and not able to be deleted I have had this tablet for several weeks now, and am enjoying it. It is a nice size to tuck into a purse. While the screen is small, it has good resolution and is easy to read. Battery life is good (5-6 hours), but not exceptional, and charging time is fairly slow. The cameras are decent, but not exceptional with 3 megapixels rear and 1.3 mp front. I have been disappointed to learn that it can apparently only accommodate a 32 gb sd card, especially because internal memory is only 8 gb. I was also initially disappointed that it was not possible to root this tablet, although that has since been remedied.
5|Working just fine so far, have had no problems with it and can get the best of both worlds as far as books go...
4|Got this as a Christmas present for my mom and dad. So far they love it. Very simple to use for them.
4|Is it internationally usable, factory unlocked and does it have a sim card slot (can it use gsm sim chip/cards)
5|All I can say is I'm happy about my new tablet. Plus I'm a big fan of Samsung so I feel safe about the product.
5|The product has met my expectations and is working well. Delivery was timely and overall the service was great.
4|Really love how light it is. Tried a few others and to have to hold them in your hand after awhile of reading it can get tiresome. So this being just even a little lighter than the others makes a difference. I like using it, but it seems to have some lag to it. I don't know yet if its me and how careful i'm being with it or if its actually slow. i do tap it lightly but then i feel like i have to tap it again before it actually will react to my touch. Again, maybe its me. I will let you know. Other than that.... i'm very happy with my purchase. If it wasn't for the lag when trying to navigate through the machine I would have given it 5 stars. I also was able to get it for a good price, it went down $ 25 dollars after i bought it and amazon credited my account. thank you amazon.
4|I really like the size of the Tab 4 as it's easy to carry with me wherever I go. This tablet doesn't have the cutting edge specs but it gets the job done for light gaming, browsing the web, and using various apps. This is a good first tablet for those on a budget and the build quality is superb. The back is soft touch rubberized plastic. I like that you can add more memory by installing a microsd in the built in slot. The power port is a little finicky. I bought the Tab 4 without charger and several different cables wouldn't charge it. I eventually used a Samsung Nexus Galaxy phone charger and it work fine. I am not really a fan of TouchWiz but got used to it. Disclosure: I purchase this on my own as I was in need of cheap budget tablet to take with me for trips.
4|Really nice tablet I just wish it had a flash and a USB port other than that the quality is good and it's fast
5|Was a birthday present for my girlfriend. She loves the Tapped Out app. Been trying to get her to switch from iPhone to Android. I have a Galaxy Note 3, which the screen is HUGE compared to her iPhone 4s. When she started using my phone to play, she really liked the screen size difference. So I took the opportunity to get her an even bigger Android than mine. After lots of research on price comparisons vs. tablet features of several different models, I settled on the Galaxy Tab 4. For added protection I got her the OtterBox Defender Series Case for Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0, Black (77-43076). It was definitely worth it. Even though it's only the WIFI version, she takes it with her everywhere. When her phone contract ends, she's going to be looking to get an Android phone.
5|I have a Kindle Fire. Or I should say, I HAD a Kindle Fire. My toddler commandeered it to watch Mickey Mouse Clubhouse & play PBS games. It ended up working well for him with a Kindle Freetime subscription, but I wanted something to read Kindle Books on other than my phone. I went with the Galaxy Tab because I switched over to a Samsung Galaxy S6 Edge from an iPhone and have been happy with it. I've been equally impressed with the Galaxy Tab 4 even though it may be considered a "budget tablet". It works great for daily use of reading Kindle books, reading The Bible, browsing the web (I really enjoy the full Chrome browser, not a mobile version) and watching videos. It also has a Kids Mode which is nice for my toddler when we're in the car and have forgotten his Kindle at home.
5|Responsiveness and performance is very high. This is a good samsung tablet for high-end users. Crisp display
5|Purchased the Galaxy Tab 4 for my 16 year old son for Christmas, he loves it, can't get it out of his hands!
5|Love it wonderful. Meets my needs. Perform well easy to operate. Will probably give as a gift. Good price
2|It was working fine for the first week. Now it locks up on me on a regular basis. Waiting on replacement.
5|I purchased this as a gift to myself for successfully completing my bachelor's degree. I love this tablet.
5|It's working very well after a few months. Was a little difficult in application but results are excellent.
5|Baought for my wife to replace her Nook. Works great as a Nook and now with the added options of a tablet
4|It does what we wanted it to do at a good price--you can buy a cheaper tablet but that might be a mistake.
4|Mostly good. I'm coming from a Samsung Galaxy S3 phone and the phone is better or the same in every area except screen size. The 7" screen on this is wonderful for watching YouTube videos. But there's a catch...there's only 1 speaker in the back and some YouTube videos sound muted. What I did was get a nice Clipster blue tooth speaker and pair that whenever I watch a video or stream music. I have a regular 802.11n router. I did read people were having trouble on the newer band, but my connectivity is good. I like this and have in a nice otterbox case which I carry in my cargo pants pocket everyday. I wouldn't return it though some days I'm tempted to go back to the S3 since I don't need to carry an extra speaker with that. It has a nice strong battery. At first I was disappointed that I couldn't replace it but I found that I typically only have to charge it every other day. Typically I'm just using at work to check on emails with WiFi. On the weekends when I watch a lotta videos it lasts a day.
5|This is the best tablet on the market. This is my second tablet from Samsung. Great Buy and Great Price.
5|I think it is a very very good tablet this is the only brand I trust cause I had it for a very long time
4|This is my second Samsung Tablet. I purchased this one to replace an outdated 2011 model that became a dinosaur. I loved my old one, and love this one too. It is fast, and the color/resolution is outstanding, and much easier to use. I have a Samsung Galaxy 4 smart phone, and a Samsung television. It is safe to say that I love Samsung products for their high quality. EXCEPT: I bought this with the intent to travel and be able to use my Amazon Prime to watch videos. Sadly, as I have now read in other reviews, I cannot do this. I don't really understand the problem. I have been a devoted Prime member for several years, and should be able to stream videos from Amazon to this tablet, just like other devices. Amazon Customer Service: FIX THIS! Please.
5|Works well. I have no complaints. I use my tablet everyday. Would buy this again if I break the screen.
5|no problems whatsoever. i did buy an external memory card because there isnt much memory in the device.
5|samsung makes the best tablets and phones. i bought this one for my 8 year old son and we both love it.
4|Crisp, clear, and it works well. Not perfect, but a hell of a lot better than some of it's competitors.
5|I really like this tablet. I had the oriinal Galaxy Tab, which still works, but it's not compatible with the latest Android OS's and I was finding fewer and fewer apps would work with it. Even though I'm not thrilled with the forced obsolescence of my original Galaxy Tablet, I found it to be well built and reliable, so I went ahead and purchased another Samsung. This tablet is thinner than my older one, has a better processor, more memory, and connects to wifi using 802.11n, so overall, it's a big improvement, plus it runs the latest version of Android so my compatibility problems are gone. I do miss the menu button on my old tablet. But can't blame Samsung for that, it's not supported by Android anymore.
5|Gret tablet. Just as expected from all the reviews and specifications. Cannot go wrong with this item.
3|I don't know if there is something I can do to make my favorite games run better but my experience with playing Simpsons tapped out and Madden mobile are terrible , Simpsons lags a lot still some what playable but with madden forget it! So choppy with missing graphics it's a joke I'm going to try whatever I can before I return the tab 4. It doesn't make sense to me how badly it performs compared to my crappie iPhone wich plays both games flawlessly and I hate ios, that's why I figured I'd go with an Android tab...big mistske. If anyone has any info on how I can fix the lag and missing graphics please let me know, thank you! P.S If there is no fixing the lag, shame on you Samsung for cutting corners and releasing an inferior product
3|I received this tablet as part of a promotion, and it's honestly not bad. Sure, the camera is shoddy, there's no ambient light sensor, it only comes with 8gb storage, the speaker is tinny, and TouchWiz sucks; but, the display is bright and vivid, you can expand your storage, GNL runs well on top of TouchWiz, and, if I had paid full price for it, the price would be low enough that I wouldn't be bothered by the drawbacks. All in all, it's a solid, if completely unremarkable, tablet that gets a lot of mileage as an e-reader, streaming movies and music to a chromecast, social media and e-mail machine, and occasional remote control. If you need a cheap tablet to use as your living room tablet, I'd say it's good enough, for you.
3|For very basic use (web browsing, e-mail, music, etc.), this tablet is perfect. Some games ran moderately, and some were very laggy. The biggest complaint: Since this is only a 4GB device, I added a 16GB micro SD card to compensate for the space. HOWEVER, this device will not simply let you move files and apps over to the SD card. It completely defeated the reason to have an SD card. I can only transfer some data from some apps, but as far as any apps on the device, they MUST stay on the device. This made me dislike this tablet almost completely. I bought this tablet for simple use any way, so I'm not upset with the purchase. Buyer beware though, you CANNOT extend this tablet's storage space with an SD card.
2|Very difficult to keep connected to Internet. All other devices work fine with wireless in the house.
5|Love my tab! It was LIKE NEW I'd never know otherwise. Came on time and I appreciate that. Thank you!
5|I have fallen in love with my tablet. The price, quality, and appearance and popularity is wonderful
5|My Girlfriend LOVED IT! .. Perfect Size For Purses.. And So She Takes It Every Where She Goes. Lol ..
5|Great tablet. Better option vs CrApple tablets. Better price point, more flexibility, better product.
3|The Galaxy Tab 4 is a 5 star product that I can only give 3 stars. Why is that one may wonder? Because despite the OS, the graphics, the speed and all the other good things about this product there is one feature that drags it down. Battery LIFE! What battery life. The thing burns thru 20 to 25% of battery life per hour. I've taken all the recommended steps to increase battery life but if one is actively using the tablet (surfing the web, you tube, pandora etc) after 4 hours or so it needs to be recharged. My Galaxy tab 10.1 needs to be recharged about every 3 days with the same type of use. Maybe I got a defective Tab 4. Maybe not. Either way the battery life issue drags it down to 3 stars.
4|Great Samsung product if you like Android. Only gave 4 stars because charging cable died first week.
4|I am enjoying this tablet. It works well and I haven't had any issues. The one thing that bothers me about these Samsung tablets is that there are so many model variations that it gets really confusing at times. This 7 inch has a really decent display. The speaker is okay but by no means great, i prefer using headphones for sound quality, and the camera is probably the biggest letdown. The camera reminds me of some of the very first smart phone cameras. It has a very grainy picture and will be very disappointing for people who have excellent cameras on their phone like I do with my Samsung Galaxy tab 4. For the price and for someone wanting something to play some apps and surf the web, this is a good, reliable tablet.
5|I had the Galaxy Tab 2 7.0, which I thought was one of the best tablets at this price point, but that was until I brought this one. It's a very solid improvement over the Tab 2 & 3. It's smaller and the design it's different for the good. It's really fast and very responsive. The screen looks gorgeous, I don't understand why people complaint about it, the colors are very vivid and the videos look wonderfully amazing!!! It's very good for multitasking but average for gaming, so if you're heavy on the games department (high end games of course), you should probably look at the Nexus. The multi user mode is gold!!! I highly recommend this tablet, I doubt theres any other better at this price point.
4|Light, yet sturdy. Thin, but has enough wight on it that it doesn't feel cheap. The battery life is pretty good for a multimedia device. Very responsive in terms of software loading times and it's touch response times. The outward facing camera is great quality wise, but the front camera could've been a bit better. When taking pictures or video, there is a lot of "noise" - grainy - and it just doesn't look as sharp. The resolution is nice, too. When playing games, watching videos, or photos, -- it just looks great. The design of the hardware is also a plus. It doesn't feel too big or too small. It fits nicely in your hands. Whether your mom or your 10 year old sister uses it, they'll have no complaints.
4|I order this a few weeks ago and received my tablet rather quickly. Unfortunately, it came damaged. The battery port was scratched up and when I tried plugging it in to charge, you had to hold the charger a certain way or else I would not get a connection. The company that sold me this was very understanding and offered to even exchange the tablet free of charge. The new tablet I recieved works amazing. It is very user friendly and came in perfect condition. The charging port works as well. I'm giving a four star review because of the inconvenience I had to go through in order to replace the original item I recieved. However, the product itself works amazing. I have no complaints about the table what so ever.
4|a bit smaller than you would think, but its still really nice. I bought this as a companion to my Galaxy S5 and its really not a lot bigger than the phone lol, perfect for games and comics and such, not as loud as my phone though surprisingly, guess the tablet doesn;t have as nice of speakers. The screen is surprisingly nice for an LED screen even comparing it to my S5's AMOLED screen. Backgrounds on the tablet from photos can be a pain in the [butt] to set up as well, you may need to crop the photo to be long if you want the device up right, but when you turn the screen it'll be black on the sides and show the middle of the picture. there may be a way around this, not sure yet.
5|still loving my Samsung Galaxy Tab 4..still exploring it..I believe it's better than my Nexus 7..
5|My daughter loves her tablet. Performs perfectly she has no issues with it at all. She loves it.
3|I will have to send it back it is defective, very disappointed. I don't like returning products.
3|I usually do not write reviews but I had to about this because in my personal opinion this is over rated. I have had mine for about a month now and its not everything I expected. I mean its fine its basically like a big galaxy s4 but the one I have has always flickered for some reason and also it doesnt come with much memory and when i brought a 16 gb expansion it didnt work...it would read in the storage settings but that was it i still couldnt download anything extra no matter what i did. It also freezes sometimes and i have to push the power and volume up button to reset. If it didnt do these things I wouldnt be looking for a new tablet now its really cute and the perfect size so it sucks.
4|Super useful table. I like the display very much. It is also very though build. My son has been using it for quite a while, and many drops later still works like a champ. Highly recommended for small children, just make sure you buy a children proof cover, just in case. The only cons I can think of, is the fact that the internal storage is garbage, yes you can add a micro sd, but that will only help with apps that can be run on the memory card. There are so many apps that can't run on a memory card, that before you know the internal memory is full. Try to explain to your 5 or 6 years old that in order to get the new game that he/she wants, you have to delete some of his/her other games!
4|Not perfect but good enough. I ve used this product more than 7 months, I use it everyday. Compared to Ipad mini, this product it half of the price and has reasonable performance proflie for personal use. I mainly use internet and Abobe reader to read textbook and look up in google. Abdobe software does not work well withi this tablet, it often freezes and very slow. However, internet works really well. The camera is horrible but I dont really use this camera for important stuff. If you are a student and need somthng cheap to last 1-2 years, this works well. But if you want something fancy then Ipad would work for you I love the size and weight/
5|Works great. Seamless with my android phone and other Bluetooth items. Battery lasts long time.
4|I like this tablet but was slightly disappointed after purchasing. Samsung says this model includes a snapdragon processor but with a little research I see it has a Marvell processor instead. This may be the reason that there are few to no real custom roms for the device. As of this writing there is no Lollipop upgrade from Samsung for the 7inch model. This is disheartening because the first thing I did after firing the tablet up was to install a custom recovery and root access, which was easy. I might just give this one to the wife and buy a bigger model with more support from Samsung. This model comes with Kit Kat 4.4.2. My Galaxy S3 runs 4.4.4 so... yeah just something to think about.
5|I was pleasantly surprised by this Galaxy Tab, battery life is excellent and the videos are so crisp and clear it's amazing. I researched cheaper tablets that could provide the kind of production that would enable me to stream shows and movies on the go and at work. I was leaning towards the Kindle Fire but didn't want to be locked into just prime with the hassle of downloading and setting up a flash player. I read about the Galaxy Tab 7 which was higher priced and then I found this little baby and took a chance, put the white in a black case and it really packs a punch. I own everything else Samsung and they've never let me down...............Thank You Samsung
4|Wonderful. The size of a paperback! I can take it with me anywhere and it works wonderfully
5|This my second galaxy. I love it. Battery last a long time when not on charger. easy to use.
4|Okay for the money. Excels in many areas, leaves you wanting in many others. PROS: * Good value - Nice price point * Relatively speedy - No lags to speak of * Expandable - Was able to use a 64GB Micro-SD card (Not limited to 32GB, as per the instructions.) * Nice, vivid screen * Battery life is good CONS: * Limited memory - The 8GB memory is quite limiting (Even using an external SD card) * Few sensors - No compass, no light sensor, no gyroscope * Rear-facing camera is only so-so, fixed-focus. That said, it's still a nice value, and you won't cry in your pillow that much. if it gets broken, lost, or stolen.
5|My wife is an Apple lover and has the I Pad 3. I always preferred conventional laptops and desktops, but after buying a smart watch and the need to sync it to android, I decided to invest in the Samsung Galaxy 4. Wow, this thing rocks for the money. It is quicker loading than the Apple and much easier to use the buttons that have a bigger sweet spot when pushing and it is much faster loading apps! I can't say enough good things about it. It holds a charge for a long time and is simply a wonderful tablet for the money and in my estimation is a much better deal than the Apple I Pad.
3|If you're strapped for cash and simply cannot afford an iPad mini, get this. Bottom line, it's okay. I have apple devices and had a android device a couple years ago. I was hoping time had improved things, but it's just the same: apps crash, it forgets the network connection, and the operating system is not as stable as apple. I bought this to watch TV and movies, but unfortunately, and this isn't android's fault, but some TV channels just don't maintain their android apps like they do for apple. Basically, I feel like I got my money's worth (especially if you buy one refurbished), but my next tablet purchase I'll just save a little more and stick with apple.
5|I love this Tablet! I struggled with the decision of which tablet to buy for over a year and finally decided upon the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (7-inch White) when it was on sale and couldn't be happier with my decision! I use this daily for almost everything I used to use my laptop for (which is a good thing since my laptop has just bitten the dust). Now the only time I even bother to get on my computer is to use office or check FB messenger (since I refuse to put messenger on my tablet or phone) and I'm thrilled. I don't think there is anything else to add that hasn't been said about this tablet other than if you're on the fence I would take the plunge ;-)
5|Have been using this for quite a while, now, for school (and gaming, as well, of course) - haven't had a single problem with it! When you see people complaining about the speed of the device, they're generally running God knows how many apps at the same time and have their device so junked up that you couldn't run anything else on it without it bursting into flames. To say the least, they probably shouldn't be on a tablet/phone aside from an old brick. If you know how to take care of your device and want something for general use, then this is for you! PPSPP works just fine on it with the resolution cranked up, as does limelight - so I'd say that it's good.
5|Bought this for my daughter who is in elementary school and she loves it, the screen is very durable, I currently do not have a screen protector and any smudges/food that she gets on the screen comes off very easily. The kids mode is a little hokey though, would be appropriate for kids in the 2-4 age range but might be considered a little babyish/boring to older kids. The 7 inch screen is a perfect size for her, text is very easy to read and picture quality is fantastic. Amazon prime was a life saver as it was a gift for the holidays that had to be ordered somewhat last minute. Would recommend to anyone looking for an inexpensive and user friendly tablet.
1|I've seen a video of the Galaxy Tab 4 7-inch with an infrared blaster, I've read reviews of the product mentioning that it has an IR blaster, the Amazon product description says it has an IR blaster, but mine doesn't have one! Samsung just silently removed the IR blaster without changing the product name or version number to let people know that it is now a different (and inferior) product. I'm sending it back because the IR blaster is one of the main reasons I bought it. Without an IR blaster there are several other cheaper 7-inch or larger tablets to choose from.
4|I've been enjoying using my tablet now for the last few months. I'd say my only two complaints are: the speaker is terrible. It's very hard to hear audio on it, especially if you are using apps like Periscope, Facebook Video chat etc. That's the only reason I give it four stars. The second issue is the volume and power button are too close together, and sometimes when I'm watching YouTube, I want to turn the volume up, and end up shutting the screen off. It's a little frustrating. All in all, it's a great device, just a giant version of the Galaxy S4/S5/S6 (I've owned them all.) So very user friendly. I also like that it has a location for an SD card.
4|While this tablet is a performer, the battery charge doesn"t seem to last as stated.
5|It's awesome. Got it for my son And he loves it. Crystal clear screen. No complains here
5|I haven't had any issues with this tablet. It works great. I don't have many apps downloaded onto it. Mostly use it for the Internet to look things up quickly or to watch videos on YouTube. I am not on it all the time so the battery life usually lasts a few days. I have not tried playing games on it yet. Everyone seems to like the tablet just not the customer service. Hopefully I will not have to deal with them and will continue to like it. I had a Kindle fire before this one. It worked for about 3 years then it just wouldn't turn on one day. I guess 3 years is a pretty good life for a tablet but wanted to try something else for a change.
2|Product just stop working after only 2 Months no falls or nothing just stop turning on.
5|I love it. Works perfect and doesn't require a data plan. New Bluetooth works great.
5|So let's keep things in perspective, I am a laptop guy who does not have a smart phone and this is my first tablet. There maybe better ones, ones with bigger screens, ones with more memory, ones that may be faster. Don't know. My only experience is with the Samsung Tab 4. One reason this is my first tablet is I didn't think tablets could even come close to the functionality of a laptop. I was wrong. Bought a new laptop at the same time I bought the Samsung tablet, after a week I gave the new laptop to my wife. Don't know how this stacks up against the other Tablets out there but the Samsung Tab 4 formed my opinion on Tablets!
3|This was a gift, and this critique is made by Bobbi Haugen. The tablet has a good-sized screen. It is ultra-sensitive to touch and the screen goes off unexpectedly. It would be more user friendly if a vertical and horizontal UP and DOWN were defined clearly so as to prevent turning it around and around.... and it would be more user friendly if the GO-BACK were better defined and made to be felt apart from the rest of the tablet. Otherwise it's working fine. I have to say though, that due to these shortcomings, and not knowing if one is available, I would recommend to another to try and find a tablet without these issues.
4|My 7yr old son bought this for him using his own money last Christmas. So far so good!
5|Our house dropped all Apple products for Samsung, and these tablets didn't disappoint.
5|A tablet like no other. In today's day and age of tech, there's no reason to buy overpriced products that give less functionality. ( I-PAD I'm talking about you). I know there's plenty of people that swear by their products. And some products are geared for those that don't need all the bells and whistles. But I as you, Why pay for a Ferrari and you get a dodge neon? Yes they can get you to the same place. But when you spend your hard earned money why not opt for the extras in life. The extra is Samsung Galaxy Tab. While they have an extended family of products that can suit any users needs. I found this one just right.
5|Bought this as a gift for my daughter-in-law. She loves it and carries it everywhere.
5|came in right on time, it was a gift and the person who received this was very happy!
5|Slowish response times, but for the price it works great as a reading/netflix tablet.
4|It is a surprisingly powerful little device. Great for watching programs on Netflix.
5|After having a terrible experience with an Hp slate and their customer service, I decided to buy the Galaxy Tab. So far, I haven't been disappointed. I've had it for nearly a year and a half and haven't experienced many problems. I did encounter the dreaded red X when charging the tablet once (it was charging through an outlet. I sprayed compressed air on the charging port, and let left it alone for a few minutes before plugging it back in, and it began to charge again. Pros: long battery life, ability to switch apps, front camera, and clear picture. Cons: Running out of storage (nothing an SD card can’t fix)
4|pretty good tablet with lotsa good features..i like how it stores in the clipboard what you copied without overwriting the other ones you copied before and you can access the clipboard by pressing a key in the keyboard and everything in the clipboard will popup in their respective boxes and you click on whatever you wanna paste and it will paste it for you by just clicking on it..i just wish it had faster video..i notice how initially when you play a netflix movie, it would lag or somethin for a couple seconds but once it settles down, it's fine..so if you're into gaming, don't think this tablet is good for that..and also it got a more than one window capability
4|It's a decent tablet to have when away from home. Can be slow at times and not much memory, which can be a problem even with a memory card. Battery life isn't too great but gets me through the day. I like having the remote function to use with my Samsung TV and sound bar and comcast cable box. Nice tablet to have when you want to entertain yourself on a bigger screen or do some light office work. For the price range is a good tablet. I had a Surface 2 tablet which was more expensive but better specs, so all depends on what you wanna do with it. Samsung does offer more expensive tablets but the price was good for me
5|Good so far everything works just the speaker that Samsung put in is not so great but headphones fix that. Resolution is good runs smooth the back camera is decent with pictures and video and the front camera is ok for video calls . some small game apps works ok but you can use developer mode to change some stuff up like gpu an animations . some bloat ware but noting to bad. I didn't think the ir blaster was going be installed from what i seen in the pictures but it is and works on a Samsung tv just fine . prime shipping was reliable and fast no scratches or rips on the box so all in all im happy with It good buy.
5|I bought a crappy Android tablet, discovered that it is useful, but didn't have the patience to deal with the slow processor and clunky WiFi. This one is wonderful. It does everything I hoped for in a tablet, and does it well. I run Kindle, Angry Birds, Skype, and TWC TV. It supports all of these gracefully. My only gripe is the 3 button interface is noticeably less intuitive than the 4 button interface on my HTC Incredible phone. I prefer the 7" size to the larger ones, because it's still readable, but not so bulky to carry and store. I can still read magazines, and the kindle is paperback size - just right.
4|This is a great Android tablet. Works like any other tablet or better. My only reason for giving it a 4 star is because I didn't read reviews from,others that warned about the sound. Sometimes out of the blue the sound in the sound Jack blows out like the sound blew out the speakers and then you can barely hear the sound. This has only happened while listening to music with headphones BUT with a simple s*** down and restart of the tablet the sound works again. Has only happened 3x but thats enough to upset anyone. Other than that there are no other issues with this tablet. It is great quality and amazing style.
1|If you are ANYTHING but a CASUAL USER...Don't get this. The tab is fast but the new KitKat OS that comes on it does not allow third party apps to write to the external SD Card except in folders the apps create themselves...meaning lots of apps that don't create folders like Joda text editor and others (that I use frequently) can't use the storage. There is NO way to turn this off except to root the device and go from there. Without it being rooted, you're stuck. I purchased this and am returning it promptly and going back to my old OS slow android phone that actually works to do what I need it to.
5|I bought for my daughter, but returned the item because she wanted a bigger tablet.
5|Great product, as all Samsung products! If you want a tablet this is the one to get
1|FAR FROM PERFECT Why 1 star? Android 4.4 is installed. 5.0 has been out for quite some time, no 5.0 update available yet. SAMSUNG REMOVED CAMERA AUTO FOCUS. The camera takes horrible pictures. When I say horrible I mean a disposable camera takes better pictures than this thing. I cannot use this to make online deposits for my business because the resulting picture are grainy and pixelated. Samsung used a cheaper non auto-focus camera so they could SAVE A FEW CENTS per unit.
4|Bought as a replacement for an old Nexus 7 primarily for its GPS chip and better battery technology. I was only getting a couple hours out of my Nexus with the GPS running continuously and the display on periodically. So far I've left this thing on with location services running and display set to shut off after 30 minutes for 18 hours and it's about at 50% -- much better for those day long sailing up to Canada. Running Navionics software is still noticeably slow, it's fairly gutless, but it gets the job done and it a big improvement over what I was using. Watch out for those rocks!
4|Good tablet, okay interface. Great for the price. Use it all the time for e-books.
5|All the necessary functionalities well delivered. Gets really fast on the network.
5|Im upgarding from an apple itouch 4g, the only reason i need this is for notifications...... all important apps have upgraded to ios 7 + which apple itouch 4g doesnt support so i needed to upgrade. By default this tablet doesnt come with lock screen notifications but installing the app "echo lockscreen" via google play store fixed that problem and now i have instant notifications on apps like skype and gmail. Exactly what i needed and actually much better than my ipod touch and i love the bigger screen. I was thinking of upgrading to ipod touch 5g im glad i chose this tablet instead.
1|I'm fairly sure this tablet is a knockoff. I think the only genuine was the box. The charger and cable were clearly not genuine samsung products. The tablet itself also lacks an IR blaster. The tablet also doesn't seem to charge properly. I charged it overnight, but it was still stuck at 14% the next morning. Thankfully, it showed as 100% when it was rebooted. I'm diappointed that Amazon would allow fake products to be sold on their site. This has made me wary of ever buying another electronic device from here.
3|Had to exchange kept rebooting but exchange was simple will see how new one goes
5|I absolutely love my Samsung Tab 4 and it was delivered sooner than I expected!!
5|Absolutely amazing. Able to run and maintain Almost every single app available and offers a convenient size and beautiful camera display. Now, in further detail, watching shows and movies and playing games is incredible. I highly recommend to anyone looking to replace older and obsolete devices. This tablet also brags a long 12 hour battery life If anybody experiences any difficulties, don't blame it completely on the device itself, it is unfair to give 1 star for lame charging times and stuff. Give it a chance, it's worth it.
5|So far so great! I've since purchased a nice sturdy case, stylus, 32GB Micro SD card and accident protection for this Tablet. I've got space for tons of applications, music and photos. It's only been 1 month since I received it but I have not experienced a single problem as of yet. I think the first thing to go may be the charger, really trying to be cautious when I plug it in and out as I would hate to accidentally mess up the charging port on the bottom. My grandmother uses this a lot and thinks the max volume sometimes isn't loud enough, other than that, we've got no complaints.
5|This tablet is perfect. Great price, nice feel when scrolling around. Very smooth, great resolution, takes decent pictures. Sleek look. 5 months in and still feels brand new! I've never owned a tablet, but this one feels a lot like my iPhone, and even the droid phones I've had previously. So whichever you're usually into you won't be disappointed. (I bought 3 of those cheap-o Dragon tablets you may be debating on- they're all already broken. Trust me you don't want to buy one of those!!!) If you're looking for a really nice tablet at a great price go for it!
1|Wifi stop working after 3 months of purchased. I do not recommend this product.
3|I never owned an Android tablet before, only iPads that cost much more. This tablet is quite nice. A bit heavier than it should be given the screen size, and notably slower than my iPad, but still, with a beautiful and big enough screen, a solid feel, and a good price. It doesn't compare to an iPad, but then it shouldn't. I just wish the Android platform was more robust. Even the gmail has fewer features than gmail on my iPad.... And since this is a Google device, that just doesn't make sense to me. Oh well. It's functional enough.
5|Great value. Loving the tablet. Speedy delivery. Want a second one for a gift.
5|I bought my daughter a Kids Kindle and I despise it. This is much more useful.
5|One of the best tablets available. Excellent Picture quality and easy to use!
5|Item exeeded my expectations!! Its working perfectly fine.. No trouble at all.
4|Good easy to use tablet I would recommend getting warranty though just in case
5|My mom bought me this galaxy tab 4 tablet for my birthday,an let me start by saying it's amazing ? it's fast the sound is great both threw the speaker and headphones I'm very happy with this and glad I decided on this instead of the Kindle fire.i noticed someone complaining that this device won't let them save to SD by default that is not the fault of the tablet but the fault of Google in the kit Kat update they made it were apps had very limited access to SD cards to stop people from getting viruses,with that being said the tablet itself is a great buy and I'm very happy I got it,also I noticed someone reporting that their tablet didn't come with an IR blaster but mine does I ordered mine refurbished from ocean reef electronics if that helps looks brand new and works like it's brand new
4|It is the essential Samsung tablet. Only problem noted is due to android Kit-Kat not allowing apps access to external sd card. You can quickly run out of room on the internal memory if you use Amazon prime music and or gps map apps.... Copilot etc... This makes your added micro sdcard almost useless. This appears to be a problem with ALL Kit-Kat devices and hopefully they will fix it soon. Perhaps Google is trying to hobble the competition to the standard of the No external memory Nexus.
5|Played with enough tablets that all of them are the same to me now. Purchased this one for my dad as a present cause it has size, overall simplicity and ready supply of good accessories available. Getting the tablet for a good deal was great but nabbing the matching Tough Case for less than 7 bucks. Hard to beat. Solidly built overall. Not mil-spec but that would be too much to ask for. (Or would it?) I'll post an updated review after my dad opens it come Christmas.
4|Nice and cheap table, just what i was looking for read books and watch videos
4|Easy to use, touch screen is very responsive, fits in one hand. Would repeat.
5|I got the tablet forty my daughter for Christmas. And she loved it. Thanks..
4|Definitely hits home with such a great price. No complaints here what so ever
3|Aesthetically pleasing and I found the size to be perfect for holding and using my thumbs to navigate and play games which has always been my preference. After updating seemed to have a slight delay but otherwise was responsive when navigating and opening applications. Had trouble running flash games such as Clash of Clans etc, without delay. I guess not bad for the price tag but returning nonetheless for something that runs a little smoother [and costs a little more]. The amount of bloatware was incredible as warned and expected. Still unfortunate.
5|WOW! We love this little thing. Got this on special for $140 on Cyber Monday. Very Quick, and well worth the $$$. It was purchased to replace a Kindle Fire (first gen) and blows it away. This will also help up cut the cord from our cable provider since with the Tab 4, a Chromecast, and most of the station apps, we will be able to watch live TV streaming without having to pay for the HD boxes, DVR, etc. Couple this with a 32GB MicroSD card, and one is pretty much unstoppable. Oh yeah, there is like NO BLOATWARE on this!!!
4|Nice little tablet. I am not actually a tablet/touchscreen fan at all but needed something for a specific application. This tablet has nice resolution and reasonable battery life. I don't like the "bloatware" it is loaded with or the fact that it all updates with no prompts to allow updating them, but that is actually related to android and Google I think. My other complaint is the lack of being able to control touch sensitivity. I have big hands and a heavy "touch" which results in starting apps or changing pages inadvertently far too often.
4|We use it so the kids can get online to download their homework and do some online work. They also get bonus time to play. We thought a long time about which tablet to get. The value was important but also the microSD slot so we can store more data and not always be dependent on the cloud - which does not exist everywhere. I have a kindle and apple devices and pc's and bought 2 of these and they fit well into our overall tech needs. The only issue is that we often need flash player to do some online work and to make use of some websites - which is not supported.
4|I bought a Samsung Galaxy since my Google nexus charging port went bad, it would be $70 to replace it. The Galaxy didn't have as much processing speed as the nexus, but i figured it would be about the same speed since the nexus has a 1.5 GHz processor and the Galaxy has a 1.2 GHz processor. Just using it for a week, there was a difference. Just opening snap chat, camera, and opening apps, the Galaxy was a bit slow. I only gave it a 4 star since the processor speed was slower and less convenient than my previous tablet. The Galaxy does have a sleek design though.
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 (7-Inch, Black) I purchased from Focus Camera was what I ordered, arrived when they said it would. It was new in the box and everything that should have came with it it did. I already have one but love the Galaxy Tab 4. I bought this one for a young Pastor/Church Planter in Albania to lend him books via Kindle. He was surprised that it came when I was told it would and that it was actually new! Those two things don't often happen from his personal experiences at home. We both love Albania and the Albanian people, IBENB
5|very good my kids love samsung the size is hand-able they are very happy,,,
4|Exactly what I need for small child worked out great nice sound and picture
5|we also love the tablet it works great very user friendly thank you so much
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is fantastic! It is the 3rd one I have purchased (2 were gifts to family members). It did arrive on time. I purchased on a Monday and by Friday had not received a status from the seller (I purchase from Amazon often and always receive a status from the seller within a couple of days. When I did reach out to seller, they promptly replied that the item was on backorder for 3 weeks. However, I received the item as originally dated that I would. So a little confusing. But overall was a good experience. Great product received on time.
4|This tablet is great for the price. Originally I got it for my son who is 2 years old because I was tired of him using my phone all the time. Battery life is great it will last up to 3 days on a single charge. The only complaint I have is that it takes long to charge about 4 to 5 hours if not more for a full charge. And if you have a galaxy s5 phone you will notice that the picture quality is a lot better on the phones than on the tablet. Overall the tablet is great and I highly recomend it of you are looking for a premium tablet for a decent price.
5|This is a great tablet. I have gone from the 2 the 3 and now the 4. It just works and is fast. The screen is crystal clear and it has no lag. If you like android, this is a great choice, easy to use, and it works so well. Plays any app from the play store which is a big plus. So if you want something stable, fast, a good picture, and above average performance you will like this tablet. You can get Kies, which is a management program so you can add, delete and synce to all your devices. Made for the Samsung. Nice program. Get it at Samsung site.
5|I got this tablet as a Christmas gift for my brother. When it first arrived the screen and box it came in were damaged. Amazon replaced the tablet within 3 days. This was a great gift that he loves. It's very sleek and thin, with a good grip on the sides and back which makes it easy to hold in one hand. The display is clear and bright, and the battery life was much better than I had expected. It lasted nearly the entire day with him using it constantly. Really a great item and makes an easy gift for a hard to buy for brother.
4|Love it fits nicely in my purse I wish I would have purchased one sooner.
4|I just bought this and got it yesterday. I checked out all the cool specs and stuff and it was great. Once I tried to put songs into it though that's where my problem came in. It is suppose to come with 8GB of internal memory but only 4.69GB are available, which means I only got around 60% of the internal memory promised (maybe this is just mine). I suppose its not a huge set back cause of the expandable memory, but still I would have liked to utilize everything I can from this device. Overall its a great device.
5|Awesome tablet, no problems/issues. Was delivered fast and on time.
5|Perfect size for small hands. works great. haven't seen my kids in days.
5|I love it. I play games on it everyday. Perfect size for my small hands.
5|Great cheap tablet that can get the job done. No update problem occurred
5|I have never owned a tablet or a smartphone before so this was a leap forward for me technically speaking. I still have a lot to learn but so far I am very pleased with the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, 7 inch. I am going to use it to watch movies and read books when I travel by airplane. The images on the screen are very sharp and the internet and e-mail are a great plus when you are in a hotel or passing time at the airport. I am impressed with all the apps that came with the Galaxy and am looking forward to learning to use them all.
4|I yuze the dicshunary app to help me spell better, love this tablet to!
5|I bought this for my wife, I have the tab 2 seven inch and it is great!
3|Product stopped charging in less than a month. It is not very kid resistant. Even with a $60 case it stopped charging. After about two weeks. I won't be buying another. I used to have two Galaxy S2's and they both lasted over a year, this was far less impressive. I will leave it with 3 stars, and that's pretty generous. The features were good and I suppose if you don't have kids and are gentile with it it might last you longer. Personally, I like hardware that's durable regardless, and this fell a bit short of that.
5|Love this tablet. I got it as a gift from my husband. He has one and I have never owned a tablet. Didn't think I need one until I was given this. Now I do so much on it. It has a front and rear camera and the only downside is that it does not have a built in flash. So photos indoors and in poor lighting come out bad. The outdoor photos in day light are phenomenal. The colors and vibrancy is fantastic. Sound quality is excellent. I honestly don't have any complaints. Just been very happily enjoying my tablet.
5|Great tablet, it has worked perfectly fine since I bought it. This model is missing two things that could make it one of the best of the market and those are the light sensor that changes the brightness according to the lightning around you and the other one is a better camera. It takes pictures just find in perfectly lit areas but as soon as that is changed the picture quality decreases drastically. These two are not must features for me but could have made it even better. Other than those two it is a great tablet!
5|Great tablet for good price. Gift to mo her - in-law and she loves it.
5|i got the tablet for my daughter and she is loving it it is so light and she can have everything she wants to play but the only thing i recommend and mostly fir kids is that you buy a memory card with like 18gb because at the beginning it couldn't store much but aside of that it is pretty light and thin and very strong because my daughter is 12 but still kids tend to let them like in a couch and it could break or something but she is loving it and i like it too i would recommend it for work too. pretty good tablet
4|I was walking across our second story hallway, when this slipped out of my hand and went through the railing of the hallway. Dropped from second story directly on to our tile flooring below. I thought for sure the screen would be shattered into pieces, but it was flipped over to reveal a completely flawless screen, uncracked, and unscratched. Screen resolution I would give a 9/10 very high quality video. Some downsides are the processor speeds. This tablet was definitely not made for gaming.
2|I bought this because I love my Galaxy S5 phone and thought this would be a great tablet version for the whole family to use. I was wrong. The biggest problem is that the tablet processor seems way less powerful than my phone. Often times there is a lag time between what I tell it to do and it's response. Just switching between users takes anywhere between 30 seconds and 1 minute. And it absolutely cannot do more than 1 thing at once.
3|I would not buy it again. Some features do not work as described in it's "Help" content. Some described features are not programmed in...i.e. "handwriting." The zoom feature works as described with an expanding "pinch" gesture, but using the reverse gesture to close the display takes several attempts, and sometimes fails to work at all. Old screens sometimes pop up at unexpected times. This is my first tablet, and while I find it convenient to have, I also find it exasperating to use.
5|Great product. Simple and easy to navigate and good for multipurposes
5|I am enjoying my tablet. This is my 3rd tablet. It very easy to use.
4|Purchased for my grandson & he hasn't put it down since receiving it.
5|It's a great device, cheap for 150, gets the job done for movies, media, etc. I use mine lightly, works great. don't get hung up on all this hype of getting a tablet with a super fast processor etc. those are only worth it if you plan on gaming all day etc, or doing intensive work tasks. This tablet i great for the light, and everyday user who does not depend on a tablet for work or if u don't plan on playing games hours a day on one. Its great for Movies, Web, light gaming, media, etc.
5|Love this tablet. Although if you like to game on your tablet you might want to get one with more than the 8 Gig one as I don't have enough room for all the games I want to play. Although moving the apps to the SD card help allot. BUT as for speed and reliability I have noticed I can jump from one app to another with no lag at all. There is also easy access to a RAM Manager so you can close all task when your done using it which helps with battery life. I am an avid android user and I love this tablet..
5|I just bought this new Samsung tablet and it is not charging help me
5|I love samsung products so I had high expectations for this one. I bought it to take notes on at school since my laptop was pretty heavy. I ended up also using it for homework, but it will not load some homework websites. The battery life is pretty decent. I charge it every two days or so at school and every week at home. I also only use this for school so there's no games... which is why the battery life is so good. I would highly recommend this product :D
4|Bought to use as a media player and for that use case scenario it works great. Browsing is somewhat slow but, I'm usually using it to listen to a podcast while i'm sitting in front of my desktop anyway. I bought this when my nexus 7 2013 broke and the micro sd slot and ir blaster definitiely makes it more useful to me than my nexus 7 was because i never have to worry about deleting anything or finding my remote. That being said i wish samsung would make a new one with 1080p screen,and better soc
4|I purchased two of these for my daughters for Christmas. The first has been flawless and both daughters love them. The second has been damaging sd cards, won't charge and has headphone jack issues. I gave this 4 stars because Samsung sent a shipping label and the faulty one is on its way in for repair. They are resolving the issues free of charge. The one that works is fast and easy for my 3 and 5 year old to use. I would use this tablet if I didn't already have another.
5|Perfect size, OS is very fast, and I love the fact that i can use 2 little windows at a time. Surpassed my expectations. I put a 64 gb card in it and it read it without a problem. I thought it would only read 32gb but definetely suprised me. Outstanding all the way around and will probably get it taken away by my wife. Will probably need another one.
5|Great Tablet. By far better than mini ipad and much much cheaper!!
5|Great device, problem is I have to share with other family members
5|Works fine. Came with everything. Will purchase from seller again.
4|I bought the Galaxy Tab for my son, who is 9 and has autism. He likes the tablet, but as a parent, I"m not a huge fan of this. It has been hard for me to set parental controls on this. We also own Kindle Fire Tablets and I have found them to be more "parent friendly". As an adult, I would give this product five stars because it really is a quality tablet with easy to use features. As a parent, though, I knocked a star off because it is hard to set limitations for this device.
3|Purchased this through a 3rd party which had it delivered via Amazon. To be honest, I only look to play a few games on it (e.g. Clash of Clans). If you're looking for a "cheaper" device to play games with that spectrum of graphics, pass. I'm sure it's a good device for literally anything else; Movies, books, music, etc. I'm just surprised my Samsung Galaxy S3 phone handles the games better. This device has a lag which is a known issue, but it just can't be fixed at the moment.
5|I purchased this as a birthday gift for my mother. After helping her turn it on, she was able to install all her apps and even figured out how to sync her third-party email account. This from a lady who can barely send an email. I was worried it would be too small for her to see, but so far it hasn't been an issue. This tablet is blazing fast, much better than my Nexus 7, which is very laggy. This tablet is probably the best you can get for around $150. She absolutely loves it.
4|I love all Samsung products but Amazon had this Tab4 on sale and were able to match their competition price allowing me to purchase this unit with great peace of mind. Amazon was great to deal with and delivered the unit within 2 days as promised. Going back to the tablet, I highly recommend getting one, it will make you life easier and wont hurt your budget. Battery life is good, the software is user friendly and the only draw back is the quality of the frame and material used
5|Absolutely LOVE my new tablet! It is basically just a larger version of my Galaxy S5 phone so it is easy to use and even though it is only 8GB, I can always have the option of using an SD card to give it more space. I am not real tech savy so I can't answer any questions about anything technical but it seems to be a great tablet. I love the android products and would definitely recommend it. Shipping was also very quick and i received it well before the expected delivery date!
1|Reading reviews here, I haven't seen anyone talking about their Galaxy Tab having wifi/internet issues, so perhaps I got a dud. I don't know what the issue is, and I've searched the internet for answers and haven't found any, but my Galaxy Tablet won't stay connected to our wifi and even when it is connected, it's like an internet-less wifi connection most of the time. Trying to connect to the internet is frustratingly slow and forget trying to play games. Huge disappointment. Update: Amazon allowed me to return the original tablet I bought because of the wifi issue, which was unexpected and very much appreciated. However, the new tablet has the same issue, so I no longer think the original one was a dud, these tablets have an issue staying connected to the internet. Even if it shows as connected, internet and internet games can't connect.
5|Love this tablet! Great size and proportion for surfing the Web or reading (particularly for comics!). Excellent resolution and processing speed. Only minor draw back seems to be the battery life, but that may just be the apps I use. Highly recommended this tablet! If you're on a budget, it's worth paying a few extra dollars on the galaxy, the hardware is very well supported (on cheaper tablets from various brands not all apps will work as well as they do on this one).
5|Its not an IPAD in any means. Definitely a little slower/clunkier. But I still love it. Its a great price, and I love that you can have multiple use accounts/logins. Works great for my business where I manage several Instagram accounts. It could never replace what my IPAD MINI does, but it does things that my IPAD MINI cannot do. I was a little disappointed in the split screen functionality since it seems to only work with select apps, but its not that big of a deal.
3|Samsung Galaxy 4 is a fine piece of hardware. The problem I ran in to was, with the software. I thought it was very confrontational. Asking to many questions. I think they should tell you how much trouble you'll get in to up front ( you can use the device with out agreeing to all the software ) or We what you whole life and credit card number and we will give you the device for free which is what I think they should do. Data mining and demographic studies, are VERY Valuable.
2|The tablet itself is not bad, but samsung is. Beware buying something from Samsung, their tech people ruined my tablet after I bought it trying to fix it and then sent it back to me. When I received it back it was broken worse so I sent it in again and they tried telling me it had liquid damage, which if it did it would have been from the tech people. As long as you do not have anything wrong with it you are good but if something happens beware. Samsung service is the worst.
4|I like my new tablet with a few reservations... it gets VERY hot after a few rounds of sudoku... uncomfortable for my hand to hold it. I like that it is thin and lighter in weight than my old tablet, but i don't think it's battery life is as good. There are some games that won't work with it because it doesn't have a menu button. Does not actually communicate with my Samsung Smart TV which was why i chose a Samsung. So it goes. It's a perfectly ok small tablet for the money.
4|Before this I had the galaxy tab 3 and it did the job wonderfully. However, when I switched to tab 4 I was impressed with the quality of the image. You can clearly tell the difference between tab 3 and tab 4 screens. The sound on this beast is good, but it could be better compared to other tablets out in the market. The only thing I don’t like is the plastic back on this galaxy tab 4. It makes it feel cheap. Great camera that works like a charm each time I need to use it.
5|Absolutely love this tablet! Great for checking e-mails, YouTube, Facebook, and anything else you might need. Games on it are great and help pass the time when I have it to waste. A friend also got one for her 7 and 4 yr old daughters to share and it is holding up great for them too. Would definitely buy again. Also got a case w/keyboard, it is a great accessory that allows me to pack my tablet in my purse anywhere I go and constantly have a mini computer when I need it.
4|I've bought it mostly to read ebooks, use the internet and listen to music sometimes. Also, I use my bluetooth keyboard with it. Great to watch movies on. I like how thin this tablet is and easy to carry around. Classy look. As far it works good, but sometimes it crashes and freezes. The camera is not that bad for very basic use. No camera focus. Don't expect fireworks when playing more advanced games. At this price it is a very nice tablet for basic stuff.
4|The kids loved their new tablets !!! My order came in no time !
5|Love it works great but where's my $10 in Google play credit???
5|Excellent! I love it! Small, fast, cute... everything I wanted.
4|For work.. .We had the Tab 3 8.0 and like those, but I wanted to see the 7 next to the 8. The 8.0 is a little better screen to look at. Certainly not as nice a screen as my Nexus 7, but it is much cheaper too. I've seen mixed reports if this thing will get Lollipop or not, and my guess is it won't. I don't think you'll miss Android 5 (aka Lollipop), so don't worry too much about it. Get a good case and enjoy it. Battery life isn't great, but it'll do it's job fine.
5|Love this tablet! I've always tried to go cheap and ended up with crappy tablets. Both my daughter and I got the Samsung Galaxy 4 for Christmas. She uses hers for music, videos, skyping/facetime with friends, and pictures. I use mine for notes, pictures and meetings at work. They work great, hold a charge well and does everything we wanted and then some! I've had an Ipad mini and would have to say I like this just as much if not better and the price is fantastic.
5|Our three year old saved for a while in his piggy bank and decided to use his fun money to get a tablet. We love this tablet, it's perfect for all of his apps and games. We had purchased a kindle for kids in the past and had to return it because of horrible storage problems and limited apps available. It's a great tablet for kids and adults. I highly recommend it, my only wish is that the battery would last a little longer but we are very happy with our decision.
5|We bought this tablet for my daughter as a replacement for one that got stolen. She loves it! She is able to watch Netflix and her favorite YouTube channels. We are able to download educational apps for her on to it that she enjoys and loves playing. She uses the camera to take pictures of things that she likes and the front facing camera for pictures of herself. This tablet is perfect for her, and it can even do so much more. Great price for what this tablet is!
5|This is the best tablet I have ever used. I'm using it right now to write this. The screen is bright and clear. It's very easy to use. It downloads very fast. The sound is good. The camera is great. It fits into my purse very easily. The battery lasts a long time. It has a headphone jack. It works with WiFi. The signal is very good. I couldn't recommend a better tablet than this one. Get it! This tablet does not disappoint! I'd give it 6 stars if I could......
3|After a few days of usage, I saw a single solid pink line running up and down the screen. Luckily, thanks to Amazon's great customer service, I returned it for a full refund. I know it was a defect because I barely used it. It was just laying around and I swear no one at home would bother to even look at it. Android software is really great! I would choose it over iOS! Hope this doesn't prevent you from buying the tablet, I was just unlucky to receive a defect.
5|Great Price, shipped quick, daughter EXTREMELY happy, Thanx!!!
5|We purchased two of these units to upgrade our old logitech remote controls, and couldn't be happier with the outcome. The SmartRemote software has been easy to use and allowed us to customize our home theather experience. The fact that it's a full-fledged tablet allows us to check imdb, Nest thermostats, or just surf the web right from our "remote". Overall, the unit is fast and solid, especially when compared to higher-priced altneratives.
2|Unfortunately, the tablet stopped working after couple of weeks and now rebooting by itself. My first issue was a damaged charger, which didn't fit the tablet as expected,furthermore vendor exchanged it to a better one. My concern is the tablet itself. It seems to be in a good condition, but I would recommend to go for a new rather than refurbished or used ones.At the end of the day I had to purchase a new tab and look for a service center to fix the issue.
5|The tablet is great. I love its ease of use. Wish the manual could have been part of info already loaded though as it took awhile to find the right one on the internet and then download it to the tablet. I also purchased a case and blue tooth keyboard as I'm not a one finger typist, and I found the keyboard too sensitive and small for my finger strokes. I also like the speaking feature and have used it when the tablet has been separated by the keyboard.
5|It was a gift for my retarded brother and he really loves it.
5|I bought this for my girl for valentines she absolutely loves if the touch and resolution are amazing The camera sucks if your wanting it for pics But it's definitely nice at the price point If you want something great for surfing the web streaming music and video and some light gaming this is good to go The touch seems better than my iPhone or iPad I liked it so much I bought another for myself
5|This tablet is the best tablet I have ever had. I have owned the nexus 7 and the kindle hd fire but nothing can top this tablet. It's even better if you have a Samsung phone, which I do. This tablet has great speed and maintains it. It's reliable and after buying it I bought an added 64gb memory card just to make it even better and it didn't cost me much. This tablet is honestly affordable for what you get out of it and it fits in your hand nicely.
5|I love this tablet. It's great for my games but it is also great for me to use for college. I was able to download Microsoft word, powerpoint, and excel on it. It makes my school work mobile for me and it's a hell of a lot lighter than a laptop. It also fits in my purse which is great for traveling too. I love that it isn't big and bulky and it's very easy to use. I just love it! I knew I would because I am also using a Samsung galaxy 4 phone. :)
5|Very satisfied condition of tablet was exactly as advertised
5|Love it. Work perfectly fine. Why pay a lot more for iPads
4|Very good device for the money. The GPS receiver is quick to find my location. Wifi connectivity is good, and I find that I can watch the occasional youtube video without issue, though I do sometimes see some "interlacing effects". The brightness has to be set to the maximum to view it outside. The kids are also able to run their DS games under the emulator (downloaded app) just fine. I was also able to add a 64GB micro USB card!
5|Bought this for my one year old and bought the otter box case for it and it's perfect! The case protects it from drops and cracks. Love the size, just big enough for her little hands to hold. The resolution is spot on and the navigation is the same as a typical smart phone. Easy set up and I love that it has an expandable memory so I can download movies from my computer on to the sd card for my girl to watch when there's no internet around.
4|Let's be honest, its a cheap tab and we shouldn't expect it to work like the pro series of tablets. But if you're looking for a tab to casually browse websites, Amazon, facebook, Instagram, et al... This is for you. I don't play a lot of games (just CoC and 8ball pool) has never crashed on me while playing. The battery is decent, could be better, but for less than 150, no complaints here. I can always carry a portable charger.
5|I have two of these tablets for the house. These things come in handy for everyone in the family . From the toddlers to my high schooler and of course us (parents). Ive had one for about 8 months or so. I love the Excellent battery life. Bright display . Sharp picture . It has as expandable memory card slot. Fast and great for the money. Never have issues with them at all I shut them off when not in use. And keep battery charged.
5|The tablet runs very smooth considering its specs. Very good tablet for the price. I've had the tablet for a little over a week now and it has improved my home life quite a bit. I find myself using the tablet more than my laptop or smart phone. The Battery life is excellent! I can easily get through a day and a half of heavy usage with this tablet. I would recommend this tablet to anyone who wants a good tablet for a reasonable price.
5|I'm very satisfied with this Tab. It does everything I want it to do and I really like the Samsung Link capability that allows me to move files, documents, and music between my Samsung Galaxy S4 and laptop with ease in any wi-fi zone. With the 64GB media card I won't run out of space for photos and documents for a long time. It is compatible with my bluetooth keyboard so that I can work on my novels while commuting on public transit.
5|I was little worried about the 8GB memory but with 1.2 GHz processor it works great.I've bought extra 32 GB micro SDHC memory card with it,but did not use just yet.Originaly bought it for my 9 years old and he uses it mainly for games and some e-books.So far he still have over 2GB of flash memory left.If will be used for more pics,movies etc.,maybe 16 GB flash memory Tab4 would be better choice.Screen and battery are all very good.
3|Bluetooth on the device purchased does not initiate. I have read that somebody else purchased two and one have the same problem as mine. So it might be that 1 in 1000 cases in which hardware does not work as expected. I was able tough to connect my Samsung TV to the Galaxy Tab4 using AllShare, strange. It might be a Android related problem or who knows. Everything else is great, particularly the new multiple USERs feature.
5|A really nice tablet with great resolution and cool camera
5|Bought as a gift, she has not put it down since christmas.
1|Tab 4 is totally screwed. Who is the moron who put only 8G of storage and then has the stupidity of using almost half of that for code to run the Tab 4. On top of that then they load two pages of apps which you cannot delete. Stupider than stupid!!!! Storage is so cheap today, why would any sane person design this way? Don't buy this underpowered joke!!
1|My son bought this for his birthday. At first, it was great. The second week, the sound had went out on it. Returned it back to the store and got another. Now, about a month later, it will not charge. Bought new chargers and still not working. After reading other reviews. This seems to be a common problem. I've emailed Samsung and still waiting for a response. Would not suggest anyone to purchase this product. Highly disappointed.
4|this is the perfect tablet for my wife she loves that it will fit in her purse and she can take it whenever she wants perfect.the fact that it's a small 7 inches means but it's easy to transfer for use in the kitchen has she prepares our meals by reading recipes online. Its a nice size for playing and doing other things but don't expect this to be a great tool for doing any kind of work, such as doing the budget we're paying bills
5|I got this tab for my wife. She loves it. Her favorite thing about it is how clear the picture is. We have Apple products too, but we love how customizable this product is. We were also very happy to find out it has an expandable memory slot, which Apple does not provide. You save a lot of money with the Galaxy Tab 4 in more than one way, and I feel like you get more with it than you do with other tablets, including performance.
5|I am beyond happy with this tablet! I got it to replace my I pod touch 4th Gen and so far it's perfect :) A lot of reviews slam it for its lack of memory space, but that is easily remedied with an SD card. Also, it DOES have an IR Blaster, you just need to download an app to use it! I downloaded the SURE Universal remote app and it works for our TV and Xbox one perfectly :) Over all, I'm very pleased with this tablet!
5|Let me start by saying that this is my first tablet. For the few weeks I've had it so far my experience is a 8 outta 10 with some minor issues. It's a great high end tablet for a reasonable price. The feel, display and performance is impressive. I originally bought it for reading and research purposes but ended up playing a few games while I'm at it because it could handle it with minimal to no lag. Overall it's a good buy.
4|I like it. I bought mine at costco for 130. I Wouldn't pay more then that. but for the price it has a good screen colors are true the ppi is over 200. which isn't true for the 8 and 10 inch version. It did lag at first but after googling performance tweaks I have it running pretty smooth. clash of clans runs smooth I wouldn't do 3d though I think samsung intentionally handicaps so you will buy the more expensive versions.
4|Bought this for my wife to replace an older tablet. Coming from a Galaxy Tab 2, this is a nice upgrade for her. Pros: Compact design, decent resolution, snappy for things like browsing and streaming video Cons: no flash on back camera, no HDMI out via MHL like other models. This is an annoyance and not really necessary, but it would've been nice to have. Overall my wife really likes the new tablet.
5|Love my new Tab G-4. Tab is working great, I do a lot of browsing on it where ever WI-FI is available and email check too. Between my cell and my tab I am never to far from my communications. Works well and does exactly what it was design to do. Apps are right including some of very own. I was at the Airport on a delay for a few hours and I was able to connect to Wi-Fi and enjoy my digital movies on VUDU.COM, a plus for me.
4|Given as a gift to my SO, she was delighted with the back-lighting. But was a little perturbed by how sensitive the touch screen really is. We adjusted the screen to suit her liking and she was very happy with the gift. Everything functioned as advertised. I also increased the memory/storage to 32GB by adding a micro SanDisk Ultra. The extra memory loaded as advertised and the system even configured it all on its own too.
3|They lie about the memory it's just 4 gb i don't like it
4|I stopped using my computer after I got the galaxy tab 4. It sits in dust Word Inbox Kodi Firefox Google music Spotify Games Emulators "Asmart" remote (IR tv remote for built in channel changing ) SlingPlayer (with chromecast support) Twitch Great kindle viewing experience Add a chromecast and it's all on your TV
5|I purchased this tablet to replace a different that didn't work very well. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 was just what I was looking for. It's a good 7" tablet, but because the bezel is smaller than comparable ones, it has slightly smaller overall dimensions, which I like. I carry it with me almost everywhere because I'm a bookworm. When connected to wifi it's great for web browsing, shopping. and checking Facebook.
4|Decent tablet for the price. Another update to the Tab line brings a device that looks way more attractive than the Tab 3 and far more usable. Finally gets Miracast and a decent Android version. Specs are still pretty low compared to some other tablets on the market. Price cannot be beat for this level of decent Samsung device.
5|It was everything i needed and I love the way it works!
5|The product is excellent and arrived in very good time.
2|We love the tablet itself, however we have only owned the tablet a short time frame and it will now no longer hold a charge. This is a huge problem when it belongs to my child who enjoys using it on the car rides or taking the tablet to his brothers sporting event etc. Big disappointment. My older child also has the exact same one, purchased at Target and we have NOT experienced this problem with his tablet.
3|My main complaint is that it's not powerful enough to pick up WiFi unless you're right on top of it. I can't get WiFi in my kitchen or bedroom because they're too far from the router. And its not THAT big a house! Otherwise, it's great. Love the book reader, the game apps, clarity and synch with my computer and the cloud. Battery life is very reasonable and quite user friendly even for a dinosaur like me.
5|This is my first Android device. I knew going in this wasn't an Apple product - not in my budget. So the experience is not perfect. However, the screen resolution is fantastic, the battery life is great, the sound is clear and the overall usability is supreme. Sometimes the GUI can be a bit delayed in responding to input, as if the CPU is bogged down. Other than that I have no issues with the performance.
4|I got the tablet for the "Kids Mode" app, but the app had to be activated in a different way then just downloading it. When I finally got the kids mode on the tablet it would not let me put pre-loaded apps on kids mode (Netflix). in all it is a good tablet Samsung should remove the fact that the tablet kids mode feature is outdated and the tablet it self is out dated as well don't expect new updates.
1|Painfully slow web browsing. I wanted to like this device. Great design. Love the size and format. I also have a Samsung phone and like it. But this device is unusable. It works ok for apps but for Web browsing-- horrible. Maybe it's my device but I'm surprised that so many reviewers gave this more than 1 star unless they don't browse the Web. Returning it today after 30 days of hopeful but unhappy testing.
5|So far, I'm loving my new tab!! Its been 2 weeks already and I can't say one bad thing about it. It runs smoothly, looks awsomee and I added a 64gb external memory card and it works super. No lags or freezing at all. It worked just fine without the external memory, its not obligated to buy it, I just did because I like to download lots of music and movies.. But I can say that I am 100% super happy with it!
5|Works great . Haven't had a problem with it . I just should've got the 16gig at least . I have a SD card . A lot of apps won't move to the SD card . I only use my laptop when I need some weird hardware like DVD or ethernet cable or to print now . I have an older printer . It's not wireless . The tablet will work with a lot of wireless printers .
5|Quick setup, gift for my 90 yr old father in law, he is getting accustomed to it, although it is very intuitive, modern technology is always a challenge(for any of us, lol). I have a Samsung S5 so it has similar commands and functionalilty. He's up and running and seems to navigate freely. He has a few questions and my son is here to help him, too. I would highly recommend. It will only be used with wifi.
5|Great, lightweight, and great for Netflix and reading!
5|My daughter ordered this for herself and she loves it.
5|Absolutely wonderful tablet, I've bought several tablets from off-brand companies in the past and this one by far is the best I've ever owned. I have no complaints at all about this tablet. If I had to, I'd buy it again, it's well worth the money to save your money and buy a proper tablet, like this one, rather than spend next to nothing on an off-brand and have to replace it a month down the road.
3|Hey, I get it. It's a Galaxy and it "SHOULD" be just as great as their cell phones. I have owned a Galaxy S3 for a couple of years and it has NEVER failed me and it's a dynamite product. But a tablet is NOT a phone. Y'see, I own a Kindle Fire HD. It's a great product and I have had NO issues with it, but I hate the restrictions to the Google Store that it imposes on you. So, I decided to shop for a tablet that doesn't have these restrictions. I settled on the Galaxy Tab. Well, I was NOT impressed with it's performance. My 2-year-old Kindle HD 7 Fire out performs it. Here are some of the things that forced me to return this product: 1. The real estate on the web browsers was an annoyance. I couldn't invoke the FULL-SCREEN mode on any of the browsers that I downloaded. Even though the SETTINGS for that feature was checked. 2. The tiny, tiny, itty bitty, speaker. I was so used to the two-speaker stereo sound that my Kindle Fire HD had, that listening to music or watching Netflix was not enjoyable. 3. The storage issue!! Daily I received the OUT OF STORAGE SPACE alert even though I had a 32 GB external SD Card installed. I was forced to CLEAR the cache on the thing daily just to avoid those annoying alerts. 4. The performance of the web browsers. I'm a GEOCACHER and I like to use my tablet to display maps.This tablet's browsers would hang and lag and just get on my nerves whenever I tried to enlarge or scroll. Kindle's browsers never gave me that problem. Those are the reasons I decided to continue my search for a non-Google Store-restricted tablet.
5|On time delivery and everything I expected. thank you
5|????? Very good, very good protection Shipping ?????
1|Super super super unhappy. The product isnt bad but it doesn't support OTG cables which is the number one reason i bought it. Im going on a deployment and i thought this would be great for hooking up controllers and playing emulators but nope the 2 i bought dont work at all. Maybe I should have done more research but i thought by now OTG support would be nothing for android tablets these days.
1|I am so pissed! I got this as a second tablet to my Kindle (which I love) because I like the games on the Google app store better. Well f $@k me because the tablet is so full of bloat ware that I can't do a load any sizable games! So now I have a second gaming tab with 32gb of unused memory on my external SD that is USELESS! Because I can't download anything on the bloat ware filled tab.
5|I bought this for my husband who wanted a pocket sized tablet he could slip into his suit pocket. We do a lot of volunteer work and this enables him to store videos and other teaching aids in it to use in the field, as well as a Bible app (JW Library) . He gets much use out if it. The display is great and battery life is decent. He is a beginner computer user and he is thrilled with this.
2|The tablet seems to be okay. It is laggy but the main reason for 2 stars is because there is no way to connect an adapter or hdmi cord to your TV. This device is not compatible. From what I read Samsung did not allow this because it is a lower end tablet. YOU GET WHAT YOU PAY FOR WITH THIS TABLET. Buy another branded tablet or spend a bit more and go for something else.
5|I purchased 5 (1 for myself and 4 for my children) of these tablets and I was pleasantly delighted by this product and its cost. It is easy to setup and use and it offers many apps that are comparable to the competition. I purchased my first tablet almost 2 years ago and I have had no functionality or service issues with it at all! I would definitely purchase another one without hesitation.
5|After not one, but TWO nightmare-ish experiences with Toshiba Encore 7 inch Windows tablets that would not charge with the included USB cable, (and NO power supply was included!) I decided to give this tablet a try. I LOVE IT! I cannot begin to tell you how amazing this tablet is. I've only had it for a day, but the battery life is great and it is so much nicer than the other two tablets I took back.
5|It was a gift for a family member and she love's it.
5|This tablet is great. Both of my kids (4 and 7) received one for Christmas and they love them. The screen is responsive and the picture looks great. I actually liked theirs so much I purchased one for myself. The only thing I don't like about them is the 8gb of storage. I know the storage can be expanded with a micro sd card but having 16gb right from the start would have been better.
5|I upgraded to this tablet from my nook hd+ and I am sooo happy I did. the battery life is amazing, a full charge lasts about 2 or 3 days depending on how much I use it. I bought it to take with me on trips so I wouldn't have to lug my computer around, and its basically just a much larger version of my phone (galaxy s3) I would recommend this over a nook any day. I have no complaints.
5|this is a pretty good tablet. i have no complaints.
5|Nice tablet it works wonderfull. I recommended it.
4|Bought this on sale for my son's birthday gift. He is 9 years old. He was super happy about it. As I messed around it, it seemed to be easy to work. Nothing out of my range (as well as his). He has downloaded many apps, especially games and he loves it. I also downloaded a parent app to limit his usage. That made me happy. The battery life, appears good. It never died on him.
5|After growing frustrated with the slow response of my cheapo Chinese tablets, I finally sprung for the extra 60 bucks and bought this Tab on sale. It's -- dare I say -- perfect. Fast. Spacious. VERY fast. Oh, and fast. Kindle reader loads in about 4 seconds (not the four minutes of my other Android tablets). Adore this device. Anyone wanna buy my collection of cheap Chinese tablets?
5|I can always count on samsung, I love this tablet and the 7 inch tablet is perfect for me. I think anything bigger it would be more difficult for ,example to use. I am able to take it to work in my purse, or to the grocery store. It functions very well. I had to give 5 stars for overall, but I wish it had a better camera I am always taking photos and the camera isn't that great .
5|My nook was starting to die, and I wanted an e-reader that would allow me to purchase both nook and kindle books. This tablet is perfect for my needs. I use a MacBook Pro for work, so I didn't need a tablet that does tons of stuff. All I use the tablet for is e-books. I like that I can pick different page colors - white, sepia or green, change font size, and change brightness.
3|Although it did live up to the reviews, it did not live up to my expectations. the sound quality is poor and its too confusing to navigate with so many folders and sub menus. Also, the a lot of the apps for the tab are limited on what they can do. The amazon app is practically useless besides browsing. I'll stick to apple products. It's worth the higher price for better quality.
5|This is my book, calendar, notepad, browser - life
5|I bought this tablet today at my local toys r us store, and I gotta say I love it! I recently had the tab 3 lite and though it got the job done, I was looking for something that allowed me to do a bit more. This is the perfect tablet for me. It runs smoothly and I haven't had any problems with it so far. I'm planning to buy 2 more for my brother and mother!
5|the Kindle fires are really nice but they defiantly should have made it so you can put a micro SD card in i got a Kindle fire 8 gigabyte and i was sooooo annoyed that i couldn't put a micro SD card in so i had to keep deleting stuff if i wanted to get a new app i would definitely get this instead of kindle fire. i plan on getting this when my Kindle stops working.....
4|This tab 4 is a very good product. I had the i pad but found it to be too large to hold comfortably in my hand. This is a good size and its performance is very reliable. I would have given it 5 stars but the camera isn't that great for inside pictures. Shipping was fast and the price fit my budget. I went to some local electronic stores but either they were out of stock or the price was too high. Thank you amazon. I rate this product and amazon 5 stars.
5|so finally got this thing, after what seems like forever. i played with it a lot last night. it was easy to set up and, fun to play with. i was worried about getting the smaller tab, but i have to say that being the smaller tablet, its more like perfect rather than to small def didn't want to big(big ones get really heavy after while). i am very pleased with it thus far.
5|I own all samsung products (minus my Google Nexus 7 tablet) and bought this for my wife for her Birthday. She loves it and I was a bit jealous of the tablet display when compared to my Nexus. It just seems brighter and crisper. Good performance for surfing the web and using apps, she is going to try it with Adobe Creative cloud and see how it does for her photo editing
5|Great tablet. Arrived on time. Very satisfied:)
5|Great tablet! No issues at all. Came with KitKat.
5|This is the best tablet I have purchased and the third. I don't know much about tablets, but it does what I want it to do. The price was amazing. When I ordered it, the tablet came in three days with standard shipping. It was nicely packed, and I am very satisfy with Amazon packing and products. I gave it five stars, because I have never had any problems with amazon.
5|I had an original Galaxy Tab about 4 years ago. I liked it. I tried Kindle Fire but theres no camera and I didnt like the format. I didnt want ipad because Im an Android person, not apple. I LOVE this! I havent set it down since I got it. I just like it for recreational use. Online and apps and shopping. Not too computer savy so very easy to use, like my phone
3|This tablet works well for the price. If you don't want to invest too much money to get an Android tablet, that's a good option. If you want to spend a little bit more and you don't mind about the operating system, I think a Apple tablet will be faster. However, the convenient IO, (SD card, USB) are definitely a plus, you can use your tablet like a SD card.
5|I love this phone! if you like to draw at all, the s-pen and any of the great drawing apps available are awesome! great for taking notes too. it is no where near as "HUGE" as i feared, perfectly sized. fast, and absolutely BEAUTIFUL display!!! my son has the iphone 6+ and his display looks pathetic when compared to this one! AND it shoots 4k video!!!!!
5|i bought this tablet to do all the things I cannot do with my Kindle Fire HD. It is a good solid tablet for the money and I am very satisfied. I can do my online banking and deposit checks right from my tablet as well as surf the web and check email. I can also download oodles of books and expand my storage space with a memory card. I would definitely buy it again.
5|I bought this as an easy way to access my apps without straining my eyes on my phone or lugging around my laptop. It works like a charm. I wasn't interested in all the bells and whistles as much as ease of use and easy set up and I got just that. I use it around the house all the time and plan on getting one for my daughter for Christmas. Sssh, don't tell her...
3|in the case of the Galaxy Tab 4, it runs slowly and freezes quit frequently. Mind you, I have upgraded the memory to 32gb, and I still didn't notice any difference in speed. If I were able to do it again, I would have rather bought a iPad mini or, at least, a tablet with a faster processor.
5|I got this for my wife as a "just because" gift. She has a Samsung Galaxy S4, so it was super natural for her to start using this item. She likes it. I'm a techy guy, and I like this tablet. It works well and I haven't found anything I dislike about it. I got an Otterbox for it, because my wife is prone to dropping her devices. They pair nicely.
5|This tablet is a very nice tablet. Nice feeling in the hands. Quick . Easy to hold. Easy to type on. Very fast . Pretty especially if you get the white one . Screen is very bright and crisp and clear . I love everything about it except that or doesn't have a about auto brightness setting, that's not too big of a complaint though . I'd highly recommended it.
1|Did not like the size and Internal speed Needed a large so I can put my blue prints on it to be able read them in the field. That would be a tremendas Help to Do my Job. just to small Its only a little bigger than my Sansung 6 If I could return it and shop for another in your Inventory would be Great, Thank You Mr. Charles Arellano
5|Pros It's easy to use. It's durable. See the knife and hammer test on You Tube. It has decent processor speed. I'm not a heavy app gamer. So I'm happy with it. Honestly turning an ebook page for 4 secs is pretty damn fast. If it took 3 minutes then I would understand why people gripe about the processor speed. The touch screen is quite responsive even with a screen protector on. WiFi is good. My kitchen is on the first floor at the back. My router is in my room on the 2nd floor witch is at the front. From that distance this device can pick up the signal. It can also pick up signals from my neighbors houses. The only time i notice any lag is if a page or video is poorly coded. Sound is good but even better with head phones. The battery life is good but you can squeeze more juice out if you tone down the screen brightness. And adjust the other settings. It has a micro SD slot. Totally trumps the iPad there. It's very light weight. Thin too. Has a very clean UI. Not crowded and confusing. The device and charger do not heat up. It syncs very well with my online accounts. GPS on this tablet is fairly accurate. I live in St. Louis and GPS doesn't always work well due to street renames, buildings sitting behind another one and such. Controls are responsive, it will only take a feather light touch. I can't speak about Bluetooth connection and the IR blaster because I have no comparable devices to test them with. Edit July 2,2014 lol I forgot my cell has blue tooth capabilities. This tab was able to connect to my Samsung Galaxy Y (Hello Kitty edition). Cons. The cameras could have been better. Only 3 mega pixels for the back and 1 for the front. Come on Samsung at least give us 5 mega pixels! Colors look a bit saturated even in bight light. It's just OK enough to use the outer camera as a QR scanner just don't expect much.
5|I resisted getting a tablet for a very long time but finally broke down so that I could watch movies on my downtime at work. Now I find myself using this instead of my phone. In fact, I'm currently writing this review from my tablet. I've always been a big fan of Samsung and this tablet does not disappoint. It is excellent quality and a very light weight.
4|Love my tablet! Only one week in since purchase no regrets at the time. I was unsure on purchasing the 7in to begin with assuming it would be too small for me but since I had just purchased a 17' laptop I decided against the larger version. Im glad I made that decision on thing I wish was available on this version would be the notification light indicator
5|I bought this for my mother who is 57. After showing her the basics and setting up her gmail account, she was signed into everything. She uses it to catch up on her shows with xbmc. This is why I love it . Its simple to use. Its not too flashy with internal storage but I will take it. It has just enough ram to actually work and is at a decent price point.
5|I have tried numerous tablets in the past and they were mediocre to say the least. The worse was the Nextbook. I am a student at a university and need a tablet. It is well worth the extra money to purchase a quality product and the Samsung Galaxy is such a product. It is awesome. If an individual is going to rely on a tablet, I highly recommend this one.
5|I did not get my tablet from amazon, however I love it. I've had it since Christmas 2014 and it's now July 2015. It's awesome. I have a iPhone as well so I get the best of both worlds. I have no issues with charging, no issues with space... except games are slow sometimes. It fits nice when you want to type in your hands... thin... I all around love it
5|NEVER better! Love my tablet. I use it for my business, to read kindle books, and to entertain littles at appointments and before bed time. I would buy a samsung galaxy hands down every time! Fast, great image quality, and very versatile. Love the option to share videos and images to my smart TV if I want to share something with the family that I find.
4|Worth the price but sometimes it has weird glitches and has issues with the storage. I bought a 32 gb SD card and the tablet still tries to use device storage! Extremely frustrating. I've even had it checked out and it just does its own thing. I constantly have to update it and delete alot of things off of it to leave enough roo to use my normal apps.
5|I previously tried a Lenovo 10" tablet and didn't like it. Times have changed, so I decided to go for a smaller one. Unlike the old tablet, this one is fast and responsive to screen touches. The screen is bright and very sharp. The 7" size allows me to hold it in one hand or drop it into a large pocket. So far, there have been no troubles.
4|Samsung Tab 4 is a good choice for cheap Tablet. But this one has only Wifi connectivity and you can't make a call from this. so this is typical Tablet and not a Phablet (Tab+phone). Otherwise this product is good for its cost. $139.99 is worth for this one if you compare the clarity and resolution of the screen with any other Tablets of same category.
5|Using it for school so I don't have to carry my laptop around at campus. So far so good no problems
5|Purchased this for my son as he's always using our phones to watch videos on youtube and also plays and downloads games onto our phone which gets a bit annoying finding all these games clouding your home screens. We had purchased another tablet, going for something really cheap, but it couldn't deal with the demands of my children (which are occasionally watching youtube or playing minecraft and some other random game). The tablet freaked out and then stopped charging and after that failure we looked for a tablet that is not too big or heavy, needed the speed and the capability to increase the memory of the tablet as well and we saw this tablet. It had what we needed. It is pretty fast. It's easy to set up and use and it has a pretty decent battery life. We also got the Newstyle case for this tablet which really comes in handy for any child. Since we don't use it for much else besides watching some videos, and occasionally playing games on it, I can't comment on how well it works for email, or looking things up online, but it is fantastic for our needs.
5|A+++(
5|Bought this for my daughter after having bought the older version. This little tablet is perfect..fits the hand well and has plenty a of space and power. She uses it for games and talking with her friends via the Internet The camera is OK nothing to write home about, but serves its purpose well. I have absolutely no regrets purchasing this tablet.
5|I love it . I t works like new
5|love it
4|Working quite well
5|Great tablet! Got it for my 9 year old son and he loves it.
3|Although I am very satisfied with my tablet now, when it was first opened by my children on Christmas morning it did not work. It would not connect to the Internet. Samsung support was very helpful, and took care of the repair in a timely fashion. But it was too bad that my kids were unable to play with their favorite Christmas present for 2 weeks.
5|Excelente, funciona a la perfección.
5|excelente
5|This is a great tablet. Not the best mind you. There are tablets with faster processors and such. This is however a good tablet.
5|Awesome tablet
5|I brought this as a graduation gift for my fiancee' and she absolutely loves it! She carries it everywhere she goes and has even given it a nickname. I comparison shopped and Amazon had the best price and as a prime member, the two-day delivery was unexpected but a welcome surprise.
5|Exclente, it was what I expected. They are super fast.
5|Lov it!! Got in on time.. thanks
4|Is not only the most advanced table galaxy tab 2 but smaller, that works great
5|Great product
5|Bought it as an engagement gift since I knew my now fiancé didn't want a ring. He loved it! Seriously.... He takes it to bed at night. It's weird, but I've come to accept it.
5|The samsung tab 4 7 inch is the perfect to go electronic tech. Easy to use, quick downloads and I just simply love it. I recommend to travelers who want to keep updated.
5|Better than an ipad :)
5|Excellent product. Received exactly what was advertised. As a past Tab user the Tab 4 is definitely a great tablet. Price was very good
5|great!!!!
5|I am really enjoying my tablet. The larger one might be more useful. For my first tablet, I really like it. It does all I need.
4|I like this Samsung Tablet 4 except that sometimes it changes orientation for no reason when not moved and is slow to change back. The battery takes forever to charge but runs down too quickly. On the positive side it has a beautiful display, and I find it to be acceptably fast when trying to surf on the internet. Another positive is that it fits in my trouser pocket with no problem enabling me to carry it during the day, and that fact makes it super useful.
5|Item deliverd in proper conditions. It does work properly and is well appreciated by my wife. is ok works good thanks
4|I purchased this for my daughter and she loves it. Unfortunately it stopped charging and we have to replace it. When it worked it was perfect.
5|It met every expectation that I purchased it for and will definately refer this item to family and friends alike.
5|I used the samsung device to gather remote data from multiple locations. The data is transmitted using a data plan to a server. The tablet is easy to use, very reliable, auto syncs with new applications and can be rapidly setup and deployed. basic4android and samsung galaxy tablet have been a great solutio
5|i honestly couldnt be any happier with my new Galaxy Tab 4. this thing does anything and everything i need it to. even plays 1080p movies with no lag at all. battery life is really good. screen is crystal clear. and its fast! would recommend to all my friends. and i think i will!
5|This Galaxy 4 tablet is EXCELLENT! ! I like it so much more than my Galaxy 2 tablet. The battery is superior-lasts a long long time! The graphics are great also. I highly recommend it.
5|Highly recommended....both product and seller.
5|Fast shipping!!! My daughter loves it. Thank u
2|Looks great, feels great to hold but everything about it is super slow. Compared to my Galaxy phone this Tab is obviously not made with the same materials. Even the WIFI is shoddy. I'm sitting right next to the router and modem and it's not picking up?!? As much as I love the thing, it's bloody frustrating to be waiting for pages and apps to load.
4|I bought this because I love my Samsung Galaxy phone. They're a little different. I definitely like the phone better, but the tab isn't bad. The worst part is that it gets unlocked unreasonably easily in my bag. I can hear it beeping and/or the voice activation going off all the time during my morning commute. That's really my only gripe though.
5|I love this tablet. This is my first tablet besides owning a kindle with Wi-Fi capabilities. I love how clear the screen is and the brightness of it. The pre loaded apps are nice. The only downside is my phone was linked with the Google account so anything I searched on my phone would prefill on the tablet. Having fixed that, everything is great.
3|Gave to my wife for her birthday, she likes it, but prefers her Kindle. WiFi is slow and connection is poor even though my router is literally in the next room. Crashes more than both my Kindles. Games are slow. Netflix is ok. Amazon instant video is ok. I expected this tablet to be better than my Galaxy S3 phone, but it is not.
2|I used it a couple times and then it sat died for a while. I go to plug it in doesn't charge or want to turn on. I tried taking the back off to reconnect the battery. Still no charge or turn on. I also tired pressing on button and volume button for 20 seconds still nothing. I'm mad because I spent money on this and now I can't use it at all now.
4|just the right form factor. Sure there are always newer versions with higher res but love the size and got it for a measly $119. A no-brainer. Display is crisp and clear. Most of the important apps I use on Ipads like Flipboard are there for Android as well. And if you're part of the Samsung ecosystem with smartphones already, then it's a bonus.
5|Indeed I would like to say this is ours a very good decision to go for Samsung Galaxy Tab4, so far we are all satisfied with overall performance of this small beauty. My 3 yr old doll used to spend atleast an odd 1.5 hr every day to watch her cartoons and drawing, later my wife used to play some games/ browing/FB etc on this tablet.
4|This is my first time buying a tab from Samsung, this pretty good for Web surfing and watching movies on. Gets very choppy when you play a mobile Games such as clash of clans for example. It's a good Tab for the price . Has a snappy response time for other things and a decent quad core processor to boot,screen is excellent visually appealing.
5|I love it!! Perfect size for my baby Very clear picture! I bought 2 of these tablets For xmas gift but! I cheated and gave it to my 1 1/2 year old hers now. I also bought a foam cover looks great together! I highly recommend this product!!
5|Absolutely amazing! At first all the steps overwhelmed me but when I put it on and scraped the imperfections out I was amazed!! Literally no bubbles, nor any lifting!!! Just make sure you leave it after putting it on your device haha I almost didn't because I was so excited about my new Samsung tab 4 but I waited and the protector is PERFECT
3|It's okay. Seems to lag a bit compared to similar tablets I've had. Even my older Nexus 7 seems to perform better than this does. I have both iOS and android devices and some of the recent updates to android seem to have me preferring iOS again. Maybe it'll grow on me with time, but right out of the box, not very impressed with this tab.
5|Great tablet for the money, but it does have lots of bloatware (Apps no one wants that you can't get rid of), and has a problem where WiFi connection will drop down to ~0.10 Mbps, but can be fixed by restarting the tablet. The battery is good enough, and the screen is pretty good. I have had this since September 2014, and still works great.
5|With each reiteration, Samsung has made improvements from their previous model. The form factor has gotten slimmer and lighter and although it only has 8GB of RAM and 1.2GHz processor, it works well for generic everyday Kindle reading or checking email. Also, note that this unit is only $149 so don't expect it to perform like a $400 tablet.
5|I have been using this for a while and find it easy to use and just what I needed to listen to my audio books and music. I had a smaller one for several years but was forced to buy this as the operating system on the old one could not be recognized with several apps anymore. This is bigger which I am not happy about but works very well.
5|Still learning how to use my Galaxy (am sort of technologically challenged), but love what I've used so far. Really has lots of bells and whistles, and lots of capability. It's a great size...smaller than a regular tablet, so easily fits in my purse, but larger than a phone, so is easier to read, etc. Would definitely buy it again.
5|Excelent buy, the device came in perfectrly new conditions, the package was samsung original and unoppened, the tablet after a month of use shows no sign of deterioration o any software problems its perfect for daily use. It doesnt brought a sd card but i didnt expected one i inserted the one that i already had 32gb SanDisk works perfect.
4|This is a very nice tablet, I just did not realize how much I do not like the android operating system. After having an iPhone it is difficult to transition back to something with a different operating system. With that said this is still an excellent tablet and if you are used to this operating system I think you will really enjoy it!
1|When we opened the box the item was dirty and appeared to have been wet at some point. It was a gift for my son for the new school year. After a week the Wifi failed. Contacted Amazon and couldnt return. Contacted Samung and gor the run around for 3 hours. Not happy all the way around. Now it has to be returned to Samsung for service.
5|I bought this 4 to 5 months ago and use it all the time! I use it to play games, type documents, keep track of the weather, watch tv shows and movies, email, and internet etc... My computer is over 10 years old and SLOW so this is a nice alternative to use. It worked well straight out of the box and I haven't had any problems with it.
5|Good basic tablet. Bought as a replacement for a 8 inch tablet which hurt my hand as too wide.I do a tremendous amount of reading and this is the right form factor for me. I've rooted it and will experiment with different roms in the future. Nice it has a memory slot as 8GB is not enough space for me. It is a good value at this time.
5|Ordered this tablet refurbished and it looked and performed brand new!! I would recommend buying the 32gb SD card along side it. The video quality on YouTube only went up to 720p which is not that bad. The customization is endless for this tablet to really make it yours. Big thanks to Manhattan Products for selling reliable tablets!!
4|great graphics small and compact works great
4|I like the tablet and it was easy to figure out since we have Samsung phones. A bit disappointed to struggle finding a way to hook up to our TV to stream though since the connecter that works for our phones and other tablets doesn't work for this particular samsung tablet. Ended up having to get a chromecast.com to make it possible.
4|Got this to keep my kids off my ipad.....then, wound up buying a larger one else for myself! I am enjoying the ease of use, the expandable memory, AND.....my kids have yet to break it! That says a lot, as I have four 7 years and under! The only thing I find inconvenient is how easy it is to accidentally hit the back or home buttons.
3|I got this because I needed a tablet to solely play Hay Day on. Nothing else is installed, just Hay Day, but every time I open the game it buffers for at least 7 seconds. Every single time. The graphics are vivid and very colorful, but moving through the fishing area and Town is also done in slow motion, which is really irritating.
5|This was for my son's birthday who turned 2. We ended up choosing this tablet after a cheaper tablet arrived not working. How devastating! Anyway, I'm very happy we decided on this table. He's had his tablet for almost a month now. No complaints. Mommy and daddy are definitely happy. I am (mommy) considering of getting one myself!
4|I bought the TAB 4 as a Birthday Gift for my wife. She loves it! This product didn't get a five star rating from me because SAMSUNG has its glitches. I expected some google credit from this purchase. However, I'll recommend this product to anyone who's on the go and loves to play fun games like Angry Birds etc. Thank you SAMSUNG.
5|I am 100% in love with this tablet. It has functioned flawlessly for my needs since I got it. Apps run smoothly, videos play great and photos look good. The cameras are not bad either. I tried them out on my pet ducks and they look way better than the ones I took with my cell phone. Very very pleased over all with this purchase!
5|I have had 6 tablets and this is by far the best one and my most current tablet. It is faster then my $600 laptop and so much easier to navigate. The camera is not the best but with the photo editor on It it makes crappy photo turn into a awesome picture. This is also withheld drops and not one Scratch on the screen or back.
4|The Galaxy Tab4 works well & is pretty speedy for its price point. I would have given it 5 stars if it weren't for the fact that the Samsung software takes up so much space in the internal memory & it can't be moved to the external SD card. When my warranty is over I will be rooting it so I have more control over storage space.
5|Love it. Extremely responsive, loads apps quickly and games are fantastic. It replaces my old Samsung Galaxy media player which was just too small at 4" vs the 7" of the Tab. Also Android version 2,3 is just too old to play some games. Videos play smoothly. Sound could be a bit louder but overall a great experience.
2|Shockingly poor graphic's performance. I bought this as a controller for a multirotor and had to give up using it as such. in the end I replaced it with a iPad mini. That said, it plays most Android app's as anticipated and is a fine small tablet for email and web-browsing.. one can't argue with the low cost.
5|My son loves his new tablet. He received the unit as a Christmas present from Santa. It was a replacement for his Kindle Fire HD, that unit had died and my son was always trying to get his siblings tablet to play his games and watch Netflix. Since having his Samsung tablet he brings it on all his family road trips and errands.
5|This is one of three for the grandchildren.
4|Very good condition and love smaller tablet
5|Works fine no problems at all can be rooted
4|After experimenting with a 10" tablet for about 2 years I decided I wanted to have a smaller tablet. I tried this Samsung 7" and have been quite pleased with it. I only wish that Samsung had included at least twice the internal storage and I'd like to see them provide the means to update it to Lollipop and beyond.
5|I like it but I would of lked it better if it were bigger. I didn't want to spend the extra money for the 9 inch and now I think I have buyers remorse. I gave it five stars because if you are aware of its size there is no reason to give it any less stars. its a good little tablet that works well and has good graphic appeal.
3|I have used some, with no problems. Boots up fast, downloads at a decent speed with no problems with any downloads. Kids have used 4-5 times weekly for the last three months. It started out as mine; and the four kids took over. (ages 3-7) I give it a four b/c because I used a keyboard with it and the cord easily broke off.
5|The tablet is great. Screen is large and colors are vibrant. There is good sound quality and it moves between tasks quickly. Good price. Pretty irritating that you can't see the price until you're ready to buy it, though. Not amazons fault but Samsung needs to cut that out. Love the tablet. Super light, also. Quality item.
3|It has a major problem with staying connected to Wi-Fi...I know for sure it isn't the Router because my Laptop will be fine. I wish I had "Googled" it's reviews, because there were many people complaining of the same problem. It makes it tough when you are in the middle of playing a Game & you get disconnected..
5|Awesome tablet because I can increase the memory, have different user profiles for my daughter and I. The camera isn't the best, but its a tablet so I expected it. It came delivered quickly and the price was unbeatable! I got it for $129.00 and it was $169.00 at toys r us and wal mart, plus they were out of stock anyway!
2|The tablet itself, while it worked, was a great product. However, my mistake was in purchasing a refurbished product. After about 3 months of use, the graphics processing unit broke making the tablet unusable and according to the Geeksquad people at Best Buy, it would cost more to fix than to purchase a brand new tablet.
4|found it a bit difficult to navigate some of the functions. expected it to more user friendly. e.g. when memory on the main tablet is full, i can't get it to read to the SD card installed. have to clear the main memory before i can save more items. Maybe i'm just technically challenged functionality generally good.
5|Love my tablet but I was disappointed that I can't download books from the Washington Talking Book and Braille Library since that was why I ordered it. I kept asking what was the difference between a Tablet and an Ipod and no one could tell me buy if I had bought an Ipod I would be able to download the books from WTBBLE
5|Absolutely just what i wanted. Brand new in an unopened box. Screen is amazing and just what i was looking for. Great performance and speed. Would recommend this to everyone. I'm just blown away. This tablet is great. First time ordering from Amazon and had no problems. Shipped on day it said it would be. Thanks Amazon.
5|I sent it as a gift to my brother. I had grown tired purchasing those el-cheapo tabs for family members only to have them crap out after a few months (at best). I own a Samsung and I know it’s a quality, reliable product. I haven't received a complaint from my brother yet. If I do I will let you know. Amazon rocks.
3|Nice but Samsung won't let me register it
2|My charger stopped working after two weeks
5|great product...would recommend to evryone
5|Only had this device for a couple of days but so far great product. Well packaged, and although I bought it mainly to play a specific game which was reading as incompatible, within 24 hrs the app incompatibility was rectified. Screen clarity is also great and the tablet size is a perfect size for my small hands.
4|Great tablet. Fast with no hang ups. Small and handy. Very clear graphics. Just keep this in mind. It has no OTG capabilities. Tablet will hold up to 32 gig. The 8 inch and 10 inch has OTG capability. Why didn't Samsung make the 7 inch with OTG? Are they trying to save money? I can't think of a reason. Shame on them.
5|Love my Tab 4. The price is outstanding here on amazon. I use this for college text books. So I have saved money and had better convenience so I don't have to lug around heavy books all day. I chose this tablet because I own a galaxy s5 tablet so I know my way around both very well. Love the product and I love amazon!
4|FYI, if you're having a hard timr finfinding the "kids mode" app, you should find in under "widgets". I rebooted and factory reset this tablet multiple times until I found it hiding there. I did not have this issue on my note 4 that I recently purchased, as it was searchable in the galaxy app store.
5|Bought this tablet for my children for Christmas b/c they were always fighting over my Ipad. They love it! We were able to download the apps that they love to play and even a few movies that they love. Had to get a micro sd card for more storage but we were fine with that. So far this seems to be a great purchase.
5|Purchased this for my daughter as a Christmas gift. She is a teacher and needs something to track her student's progress. The school provides one during summer school, but there aren't enough to go around during the regular school year, so it is harder to keep track of their progress. She was delighted with it.
4|I chose this article for Christmas gift my daughter . I liked it so versatile and interactive , plus it is a choice of modern gift . The only downside is that you must establish schedules use as it is extremely addictive for children. I recommend it as a detail for little girls and stage of development.
5|Got this as a replacement for a broken Galaxy Tab 2 (the tab broke on impact, not for any issue with the hardware). The Samsung hardware is really nice, and the Tab 4 is an excellent little tablet. The white is extremely attractive, and the new hardware is much less slippery, so dropping it is much less likely.
3|Using upon arrival till the power ran out and it couldn't be recharged. Begin to take off back cover try other "reviving" methods but found in the nick of time it's the charging cable that didn't work! Borrowed friend's cable and now tab working beautifully...with some minor "reviving" scratches.
5|Still works amazing I love it no regrets
5|Excellent. It's Samsung. Need I say more?
4|Good device with good oftions and quality
5|Came on time and in perfect condition with great packing to prevent damage while in transit. Great tablet. Im still learning how to use all it's features and preloaded software. Very clear screen. Reasonable battery life though i would be very careful with the charger port. Overall very happy with this product.
1|We ordered this for my son's birthday. The tablet is great; I was dissapointed that the box was completely smashed and both the tablet and case were destroyed. Thankfully the replacement was sent promptly, however it was after my son's actual birthday. The replacement is wonderful and he is a happy 8 yr old.
4|I have had several tablets including the Tab 2 & 3 and the Tab 4 does not disappoint. The screen is bright and sharp with rich color. It's processor can keep up with streaming video or music while having other apps open. Plus having the added benefit as acting as a remote control for my Samsung TV's is great!
5|I bought this tablet for my wife so we couyld Skype between the US and El Salvador and save on the long distance international calls. Probably came close to paying for itself over a two week trip. Great price, fantastic screen quality, and a very comfortable size for travelling. Highly recommended product!
5|This is a great tablet for the rugrats. The price is right and the quality is fantastic. You can't go wrong with a Samsung. Buy the warranty policy to go with it. It will come in handy. I have used mine on another tablet and they sent me a check for the full price of the tablet and it was processed quickly.
5|I Bought two for my kids for Christmas, they are perfect. The only complaints of freezing were while playing large demand games and that was easily solved by closing apps and games they hadn't properly closed before opening a new game. We've been so impressed my wife wants one to replace her first gen fire.
5|I have 4 of these - G Tab 2, G Tab 3 Lite, G Tab 3, and the G Tab 4. If it wasn't such a great product I wouldn't keep buying them! Perfect for games, surfing, reading, streaming, and Hangouts. Syncs to all my Samsung devices. Easy to navigate and customize. Wouldn't trade it for a free iPad - of any kind!
4|Well made, fast, every thing works, Tried the new kindle 7" I have the hdx 8.9 and had it rooted because i didnt like how it worked, Same for the new 7 inch kindle, sent it back for a real android tablet. Wi Fi doesnt pick up as well as my kindle but i think thats because the kindle has a dual antenna.
5|I purchased this tablet for my 7 year old granddaughter for Christmas. She loves it and has already downloaded educational apps and created her own email account. It is easy to use and perfect for her. She also received a recommended case which is child proof so less chance she will damage it.
4|I had a Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 so this is certianly an improvement but the one thing I am pretty disappointed in is the camera. Even though the camera is the same megapixels as the older model, I feel the older model is a much better camera.
5|Love it the phone is everything I wanted
2|Lasted one day and then would never charge again. Not with the original charger and cord nor with any other charger. It would not connect via USB to a laptop/desktop under any circumstances. Looked online and saw that it is a common issue with Samsung tablets. Decided to go with a different manufacturer.
4|i never had a Samsung product so i give the Samsung galaxy tab 4 a try , i love it. when im playing games or watching movies ,it shows great.i had my tab 4 about a month now n everything runs great. good battery life 4000Mah , nice camera but the only thing no flash. over all its a great product to have.
5|Love this tablet! It's the perfect size for browsing the web and such in the easy chair. It just small enough to put into the inside pocket of my jacket making super convenient to transport anywhere. I love the sleek clean styling. This tablet was well worth every penny, I highly recommend this product.
5|Purchased 2 of these, I love mine it works great and is everything I expected from a Samsung device. It's compatible with all of the devices we use in our home! It also is fairly easy to use since my father in law has been teaching himself to use the one we gave him and hasn't called for too much help!
5|Brought these tablets for my kids as a Christmas present, they will love their tablets. Brought the black and white. I have a galaxy note 8.0 tablet and I love it and I know my kids will love their tablets too. Samsung products rocks!!!!
3|Good enough for what you pay. It's a bit herky-jerky and takes a bit more finger pressure to open apps than I'm used to on an iPad. If you don't want to invest in an iPad this is a good choice. I'm a bit spoiled by the smoothness of Apple tablets, but this is adequate enough. It will get the job done.
3|I bought this tablet as a supplement to my phone and to read books and pdfs for school. It worked great at first but then started getting really slow and laggy after a couple of months. Also I have a galaxy s6 which is pretty much exactly the same operating system as the tab so it was pretty boring.
2|It worked well at first but after around a week of use, it blacked out after I finished charging it and when I tried to turn it back on most of the time it didn't work. Now it wouldn't turn back on no matter how many times I've tried.
2|The sound quality is bad, the Netflix app glitches at least twenty times while watching a movie, the home keys are VERY sensitive, you can hardly find any apps to download, and lastly the battery life only lasts for about 2-3 hours! I would not recommend this if you are an impatient person like me!
4|The product came in rather quickly and I purchased this item to help me thru nursing school. We are required to carry a PDA, and instead of a bulky PDA, I purchased this tablet. So far its working perfectly and I'm able to download all the necessary apps we need. Its very sleek and runs quickly.
3|Good basic tablet...camera is horrible!
5|Great table works an looks brand new ..
5|It's fast and practic, worths the price
5|Small, light, fine, fast and beautiful.
5|This tablet surprises with its elegance
3|I own a lot of Samsung products and this one does not live up to their name. We also have a nexus 7 in our house and it out performs this one. The Tab 4 can be sluggish at times, especially when playing tablet games. For just a little more I would go for the Nexus 7 or just get a Note.
5|Love my Galaxy Tab. Able to read e-books from multiple vendors plus do email, watch videos, play games, keep my calendar and much more. I had the prior model and when it was time to replace it (after I dropped and broke the screen), I was happy to go to the newer model of the same android tablet!
5|my grand daughter thinks it is the best & my daughter has thanked me several times because it helps keep my grand daughter occupied & having fun - also, your one touch method for ordering is the easiest & friendliest way I have yet to experience in the world of ordering over the internet. Thanks
5|A+, it does exactly what I need it to and it's a fairly big display. The only complaint I can think of is that it takes a while for it to learn the way you speak? It constantly corrects my grammar and spelling, even if the mistakes are intentional. Other than that, nothing complain about!
4|It is a great Tablet, fast, responsive, beautiful sharp screen. The only issue is (not sure if it's just my tablet) some high end games lag, like my favorite FIFA 2015 and Sonic. I guess it will require much better processor, but for every day use like email, chat, browsing it is just perfect.
5|This is fantastic, and after one seller sent me a used one, Amazon quick-shipped a new one right away. (Best customer service ever--yay, Amazon!) It's perfect for taking credit cards with the Square app, listening to music with Pandora, watching You Tube, etc. Just a really great small tablet!
5|Bought this for my husband as I had picked one up for myself at a store while I was in the city, and he liked mine. He travels for his job, so this is great for him to carry along for entertainment or looking up road conditions, or whatever. Samsung does very well, and we're both very pleased.
5|I bought this as a present for my boyfriend; it shipped super fast and I am really excited to give it to him! My best friend has a Galaxy Tab 4 and I've always loved playing on hers. This is a great price for the value, thanks!
3|Don't get me wrong, I like this tablet. I just don't "love" it. The screen is nice and large for a 7" tablet. The color saturation is very nice and pleasant to read. Cranking up the visibility all the way looks brilliant (although not recommended as it will drain the battery faster). I set it to about 80% and its just fine. Battery life is very good. Its way better than my HP Venue 7". I'd say thus far the battery lasts at least another 20-30% more than my typical use of my Venue. By design, it is much thinner and in turn lighter. Its my go to tablet now replacing my old Apple iPad 2 which is a klunky and tires out my hands because it is too heavy if holding onto it for long periods. What I don't like about the Tab 4 is the hard button location. It is fixed at one end of the tablet in portrait mode. Most of my usage is in landscape mode. If you ever used an Android tablet, you know the navigational buttons appear in software menus along the bottom edge of the screen in the appropriate mode. You always know to just tap the bottom edge and the menu appears. But not with the Galaxy Tab 4. This poses a problem when you are using the tablet at night in a dark room! You can't see the buttons. Samsung should have lit up the buttons to make them visible. Or better yet, just leave the software menu navigation in place by default. For those who use an Android cell phone, you are not going to like this. The other problem with having these buttons along the inner bevel is that you can hit them by mistake. There is not a lot of bevel real estate available along the sides of the tablet. There has been so many times that I have been holding the tablet in landscape mode where i accidentally touch the buttons that it triggers their action modes. This is really a bad design in my opinion and why I give this 3 stars.. Another thing I don't care for is the layout of all the apps on the screen. There is no way that I can find how to sort the apps by name. Because they are randomly ordered its a real pain in the butt to try to find the appropriate app. Eyeballing left to right, top to bottom, and swiping across multiple screens is a really poor way to search.
3|I bought this in March 2015 for my son. He went in half and I went in half for his birthday. We chose this tablet because of the high reviews and because it was less expensive. I was hesitant to buy a device with only 8Gb of storage because I knew it would get sucked up so fast in games, but then I found the 32Gb SD storage card and thought, no biggie. We will just dump all apps and stuff onto the external storage and it won't be a problem. There are a lot of good things about this tablet. *It runs well. *The screen is very well lit and clear. *It plays Netflix and YouTube videos very well. There is one huge issue that I do not like and that continually frustrates my son. *The storage issue of 8Gb EVEN though we have an additional 32Gb SD card. *The pre-installed bloatware that you can't get off (but you can uninstall updates and turn off). We ran out of storage quickly. I thought, no biggie. We have the SD card. However, what I did not realize even after looking into the SD card for about 1 hour on various forums is that you either have to A) Have an app to MOVE EACH photo or video or app onto the SD card B) Go into Settings and Applications and move each app individually -OR- C) Plug the device into a computer and manually move stuff onto the SD card. I do not find the manually moving of the files convenient at all. And, now, even more frustrating, we keep getting an "insufficient space" when trying to install an app even though we have moved every single thing possible to the SD card. We have also uninstalled the updates and turned off all the bloatware. So I am installing yet another cleaner app and then I will try again plugging the tablet into the computer and manually moving things. I also own an iPad 3rd gen. It has a mere 16Gb of storage. When we run into storage issues, we delete apps that we haven't used in a long time. There are no caching/memory/storage issues on the iPad. You delete it. The space is back. You use it again. I have owned the iPad for 5 years without any issue. So, I am very frustrated to have a 4-month old tablet with storage/cache issues already. I think if the SD card is to be used at all in a user convenient fashion, you should get a choice of where you want to install your apps in the Google Play Store (or whatever store you choose to use) and it should be easy to switch your storage of photos and videos to the SD card. Also, when you move the app, your app data should automatically follow! As in, you should be able to go into settings and say, "Store my photos and videos on my SD card" and "Store my apps on the SD card." and "Store my app data on my SD card." Android is not making this easy. Why? After this, I find that had I known, I would have forked over the additional $$$ needed for an iPad or iPad mini.
3|This tablet is definitely useful as I just lost my smartphone and have to use an old one from years ago; but using it as my main smart device I've noticed a plethora of issues. -When plugged into an AUX cord the audio will distort if turned up too high. I don't mean distortion like usual when audio is played too loud through speakers, the audio is terribly broken. I can play music through the same speakers at a louder volume than this tablet can produce without issue. -The WiFi and Bluetooth will randomly disconnect (it still says I'm connected to an access point but I have no internet access. I have to disconnect and reconnect to fix the problem). -The front and back camera's are absolutely terrible. It looks like a Nokia from 2005 + no flash or autofocus. -The tablet will lag and freeze up from time to time. Switching from app to app is a hassle, even when its only two apps open. Unfortunately by the time I realized these problems the warranty had expired. So I have to focus on the good things about this tablet: -Battery Life: A single charge will last me all day even on heavy use. I can go two days on a charge if I use Power Saving Mode. -Perfect Size: The 7" screen is the perfect balance between screen real-estate and mobility. I can fit it into my pocket with ease. People keep asking me if it's a phone with a surprised look on their face. -Water Resistance: It doesn't say it on the product page, but if a drop of water lands on the screen it stays a drop. If I move it around it doesn't leave a trail of water. Note: Not water PROOF. I think if mine didn't have the defects I listed at the top then I would definitely recommend this product. Although I can't say if these issues are exclusive to my tablet or if they all have these problems. If you think you want to try it out be sure to keep the warranty in mind.
5|The tablet came well protected. I bought this as a gift for my grand daughter, she loved it! Of course why not? Samsung is a great, dependable brand. The price was great, fast delivery, and great protection for shipment. I also ordered it gift wrapped and they did a great job.
5|Smaller and lighter than the tab 2. It took a little getting used to but the graphics is unreal. The only down side is that the screen is so smooth that I sometimes have trouble getting the screen to work because I finger keeps sliding instead of tapping, but it simply could be my tremors.
5|This in fact is pretty awesome for a basic tablet. Pretty small tablet for a 7 inch which is a plus! Only downside is that samsung always put their speakers on the back, plus the speakers aren't that loud on top of that. So I do recommend you get yourself a pair of nice headphones with this.
5|Very pleased with condition and price.
5|My daughter is in love with these item
4|For the most part I think this tablet works wonderfully. The few things I noticed is that you can see the pixels, unlike some tablets with the super high resolution, and at times it can be laggy. Perhaps it is just my configuration. Other than that it's light, easy to use, and super bright!
5|Being familiar with the Android operating system, this was very easy to setup. User friendly, decent battery life, well-built, crystal clear screen and compact enough to store in my messenger bag when I'm out and about. I really love my 7in screen Galaxy Tab 4 and the price is affordable.
5|I bought two different ones since i could not decide which to get him. He saw this one and that was that. He loves the functionality and how easy it was to connect to his other electronic. He and has a lot of games and aps downloaded and still has plenty of space. It was the perfect gift.
5|Love it, got it on an amazon sale. I have not used my desktop puter in 9 days, turned it on for updates. I can shop right from my easy chair. Bright screen, put in sd card for extra memory, I charge it over night and the alarm wakes me up. Very happy with this purchase
5|I ordered it because I wanted a new tablet but I also was thinking about getting a galaxy phone to replace the phone I have well I saw this and thought my phone still works fine its just beat up looking so I ordered this and have been so happy with it. I must say I really love this tablet
5|Bought for our 5 1/2 yr old Granddaughter to replace one she accidentally dropped in water. She was very sad to lose the accidentally damaged one, and very happy to receive this one. Her parents have configured it so that she can use it in kid-mode. Very useful for her learning to read.
4|It was easy to set-up and use. The graphics are crystal clear. Games load fast. I bought this for my mom for Christmas. I wish I bought one for myself. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is Candy Crush & Soda Crush are not available in Google Play Store for this tablet.
5|Great tablet! This is my first tablet that has not been an off brand and I really enjoy it. The interface is slick, and it makes web browsing/app using very simple. I plan to pair this device with my chrome cast to take advantage of some apps like HBO Now etc. Very thin and lightweight.
4|I am extremely pleased with This tablet. The picture quality is exceptional. It downloads and uploads fast. It is easy to use. My only complaint is of the sound quality. The maximum volume is very low and this is annoying when you are watching Streaming video or listening to music.
3|Overall good tablet. Processor speed is excellent. One major flaw: this tablet has probably the worst grapghics card I've ever seen in like 10 years when tablets just started to arrive to the market. If someone wants to use this tablet to play games, this unit would be the worst choice.
2|I like because is small and it fits in my purse it but find it very slow, it freezes lots of times and I get impatient. When that happens you can't even turn it off. It just stop working.I had to pick up my old Ipad again, haven't use it for over a month because it keeps on acting up.
5|Love this Tablet! Bought this for my Gram so I can send her pics & videos of the grandkids and so she can listen to all her oldies tunes she loves so much =] its a great size and screen display is more than sufficient! Easy to set up, Simple to use. Perfect for the price and quality!
5|Love Samsung devices. This is my third device I have purchased for my family as gifts. They all are very pleased to have received them. I have purchased the Galaxy note 10in, Galaxy Tab 4 (7 & 10 in). I myself have an IPad Air but as soon as it dies I will be getting a Samsung device.
5|I love this tablet! I have been watching movies steadily on it since I received it! The sound on some movies isn't very loud so I purchased a set of quality ear buds. I would recommend this tablet for anyone who wants a great brand for less! Meets all of my expectations and then some!
5|Just amazing... first of all I order it Thursday and it arrive Monday, only 3 labor day, considering I'm from Puerto Rico it was pretty fast. The Galaxy Tab is just beautiful in all aspects, fast, economic, durable. I'm pretty exited with this tab and I hope it last long hahaha :)
5|This really was like new, great deal!
5|Love this tablet. It was a great deal
5|Like that it is just the right size for your hand. Not too heavy. Fast. Only thing is volume could be louder. Some sites with voice, can't hear as well, so end up using my Kinda just for volume so I can hear online programs. Otherwise, just love it and takes beautiful pictures.
4|Great, other than 8 gig not nearly being enough. Like not even close. The OS takes up 3.5 gig, and you cant have only 1 gig of space left or things wont run well. So with the undeletable apps that come on it factory set, the 8 gig is more like 3 gigs. otherwise an amazing device.
5|I bought two of this Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 as a Christmas gift for my nephews, 5 and 8 years, and they love it. They love to take pictures, play videos, play games, practicing lessons from school and everything you can imagine. You will love it. It works for children and adult.
2|Very very low storage capacity. Only the operational system used almost half of the 8 gb, I downloaded 6 apps and with 3 updates the tablet is already full and keep getting the low storage capacity sign. I moved everything that I can to the sd csrd and still running out of space.
5|It is the best unit I ever purchased, I have been through 5 different models so far. Samsung has great screen resolution , quick responses and the beauty I also look for. I even bought 2 of these units, one for my partner who also loves it and he is a newbie to computer products.
2|there may have been something wrong with the one I received. it would not stay on a screen, it kept jumping to another screen. for example, if I were reading my email it would for no reason jump to the keyboard screen to type something. it became intolerable and I sent it back.
5|Purchased for my 5 year old, so that I might have a chance at actually getting to use my own. Perfect size for his age, price was great and he's able to play minecraft with no lag...translation...mommy gets an hour a day of complete and utter silence. Gotta love screen time :)
5|Worthy purchase, my daughter love it
5|Works great. Wife can't put it down.
5|bought it for my husband he loves it
5|Worth every penny. My daughter loves it and I love the kids' mode. Easy to use for my 2 yo. Holds charge for a long time, easy to turn on and off and I love that one simple code entered in turns off kids' mode so that an adult can use it as his/her own tablet. Dual purpose!
5|Bought it for my husband for xmas. So far, he loves it. He uses it every night. He doesn't do much on it - just browsing the Internet mostly. I don't think he's downloading much so I can't speak to that. But it's great for basics. And for the price, we didn't expect much.
5|What isn't great about Samsung?! It a great product and my wife loved her tablet and so do I... now I'm purchasing mine. I also bought the recommended micro chip and arrived in same package within two days with the prime shipping....keep up the great products Samsung!!!
5|Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is a great tablet. This purchase was made after shopping online & local stores. The price was well below in comparison and we were able to purchase accessories on Amazon along with this great tablet for still less than it's typical retail here in MA.
4|Memory capacity seemed inadequate and the audio plug in has caused to work after not a whole lot of usage. This unit also constantly dropped connections when playing online radio stations despite working with the Samsung help desk. I gave up trying. Got a lemon, I guess.
5|Nice product. My daughter loves it
5|Only started playing with the Tab this week, but it's super intuitive and easy to use. I really like the weight and feel of it in my hand. The graphics are beautiful and it has functionality I wasn't even looking for. Really love this much more than my old Kindle Fire.
5|I love samsung in general so I had to buy this and use it strictly for school. It's size is perfect for me. I can see things on the screen clearly. Android play store allows for a lot of apps to download. I also have a Kindle fire which doesn't have my favorite apps.
5|Honestly this is perfect for having university apps, documents, etc at your disposal. It is also a good for downloading textbooks tos o you don't spend money on textbooks. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in HAVING A BOOK SIZE PERSONAL TABLET
5|I love this tablet , it's the best one I've had so far . The price was reasonable for all the apps cool features and great camera this tablet has. I would suggest this tablet over other android tablets :)
5|This is my first tablet and I'm so glad I decided to go with this one. The Samsung Galaxy Tab does so much. The battery life is great. The Android app market is very helpful for me since I have an iPhone. Out of all the tablets I tried, this is by far the best!
5|Nice Tablet. For the Price it works extremely well. Have had it for about a month now and have done just about everything on it: Apps, Movies, Netflix, downloads from SD card and it works like a champ. Also has a lot of features that other Tablets don't come with.
4|Really enjoying this tablet. It appears to run everything we throw at it with no issues and the screen resolution is very pleasing. Have not messed around with the camera all that much but it seems pretty decent. Like the front camera for skype and google hangouts.
3|Nice tablet but it could not play clash of clans smoothly. Since that is the main reason I bought the tablet I returned it and got the nexus 7 2013 model and it runs clash of clans flawless for only $10 more. So for you clashers out there don't buy this tablet!!
5|Purchased for my Mom as a surprise birthday gift. She does not like her laptop. She loves this tablet one because it's user friendly and two because its portable. She can toss in her purse to take anywhere. Big enough screen for viewing all her favorite books, websites & videos.
4|Perfect first pad for my daughter (6). My daughter is used to using my Samsung tablet so easy to navigate. I am having an issue with the memory not registering correctly between internal memory and stick, but Samsung helped me get a refresh and software update.
5|I wasn't sure what tablet to get for my daughter for Christmas but after much research I settled on this one. I must admit, I'm an apple customer all the way but this tablet, for her, is wonderful! Takes great pictures, no issues with freezing, easy set up!
3|This is my third Galaxy Tab and I must say I am a little disappointed. There is a lag in response, the video is grainy and does not provide a good focus. I am glad my Tab 3 is still going strong. This Tab 4 will be used only as a back up. Would not buy again
3|Absolutely full of bloatware; will take hours and possibly rooting the device to get rid of it all. Why clutter the device and take up so much space with junk apps nobody wants, 'partners' who want to upsell us on another service, and a non-standard UI? Sigh.
4|I like it, it's small and compact. It does seem to not connect to Wi-Fi as well as my iPad, and my iPad also has better apps, and my iPad will better connect to my server to access my files. That said, it was cheaper and works well enough for a second tablet.
5|We bought 2 of these tablets for my kids (5 and 7). So far, they are holding up just fine. The video quality is sufficient as well as the battery life. The added benefit of having an external minisd card slot allowed us to add several movies to the tablets.
5|I was looking for the perfect Tablet and Samsung never disappoints. I love that you can buy a memory disk and add to it later. We have many other Samsung Brand devices, our favorite in our household. Reliable and very well made. Very happy with the purchase.
2|Had the galaxy tab packed in an ordinary box with only the unit and the charger inside and nothing else. No earphones. No manuals, but it says that you could get it online. had a problem with the smart eye function and it often stop connectin to the wifi. ?
4|This small tablet with the latest Android OS KitKat operates very quickly. I have no trouble downloading or opening apps. Some times it requires persistent taps to operate the apps. But, over all, I am enjoying this tablet and would recommend it to others.
2|bought to read PDF files/manuals from a USB drive -- bought the adapter cable before finding out the operating system doesn't allow this feature without rooting it which I won't do until the warranty expires -- if I was to do again I'd buy the bigger screen
1|I bought this from Best Buy. Don't buy this piece of crap. It has battery issues and wifi connection issues. Just don't buy anything from Samsung, I have had 2 of their tablets stop working on me.
5|The 7in. Galaxy Tab 4 is the best all-around tablet I've ever used. I purchased a refurbished model sold here by Ocean Reef Electronics and couldnt be more satisfied with the purchase. I've seriously switched from my iPhone to this tablet. It fits easily into any of my jeans pockets (I wear size 33-32). It's so much easier to use than my iPhone was it's unbelievable. I have fairly large hands, and using this size of device is just so much easier. Couple that with the multi-tasking capabilities and keyboard shortcuts and I've been more "productive" and with less "effort" than with the iphone just had to tailor a few settings to the way I interact with the device (which it seemed like I was constantly doing on the iphone and never being wholly satisfied with it). "Tablet-sized" devices may not be for everyone but for me it just works. This is my first amazon review and I felt compelled to share such a positive experience with a device. I plan to get rid of my iPhone completely and replace it with the most basic talk/text phone to maintain a phone number and mobile text capability, and use Ting(keep reading) for service. I estimate I can shrink my phone bill down to less than $20/month (from the $35ish I was averaging with the iPhone and ting). Check out ting dot com and compare your own bill/usage and see for yourself. Also I applied a Mr.Shield anti-glare screen protector. I highly recommend to my friends and family an anti-glare screen protector for any device.
5|Ive been a galaxy user for a few years now. Showed my mother in law mine and she loved it so much she asked for one for xmas. So this will be her first tablet. Will be easy to show her, who is not tech savy, how to use the Galaxy Tab 4. No complaints here.
5|I purchased this Tablet for my mother to use at the hospital, added a 64Gb sd card without issue and its been rocken ever since. Works great, is fast on wifi, excellent screen, fast enough GPU to stream anything I threw at it without chopping or dropping.
5|Love the size! Not too small and not too big. Easy to carry around and not heavy. Still works perfectly well since I bought it last Dec. and I love the clearness of the videos and downloading games with it is awesome as well as doing other stuff with it.
5|Excellent. As always Samsung delivers an outstanding product. I bought a black and a white one for my parents. Now they're completely glued to the screen. Makes me laugh thinking back on how they used to complain about my being on my devices all the time.
5|bought as a gift ... kid love it.
5|Exactly what I ordered I love it!
5|Shipped fast, works as described.
5|Awesome that's all I need to say.
3|The size of the tablet is great, very easy to use. I didn't keep it long though because many of the apps I use were not compatible (Square, Amazon payments) and so I couldn't use it in my business. Would be great for kids (fits into a pocket or purse)
5|These are great little tablets. My son uses one at school with several academic programs and the family shares one at home for entertainment. It keeps up. Great battery life, fast and a good size for our needs. The camera is terrible, though.
3|This is my first android device. I have apple products (iPhone, iPod, iPod touch), for the price of Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, is a good introduction and familiarization. I still love my I devices.
1|After a week or so it broke down, it is not charging and when we tried to turn it on the samsung logo blinks and nothing else happens. This is the second one I bougth and I am surprised this one didn't work becuase the other one is still working great.
2|Do not get this tab in 8GB. The system and samsung apps that you cannot delete take up over 6GB by themselves. Even with an SD card, a lot of apps cannot be installed on an external memory so you are extremely limited in what you can put on the tablet.
4|I love this tablet. clean, simple to use interface. easy to understand and complete tasks. works efficient without lag. just wish it had 16 gigs of storage, but otherwise is a great tablet. do not have to worry about the freezing and crazy os issues.
5|small and power full, this small tab will connect to any wifi or cellphone share wifi and gives you the power to do amazing stuffs, the google app store has amazing apps to keep you interested for a long time, don't forget your charger in your house.
4|You know...it's not horrible but it's not great. The tablet is solid but a little slow for quad core. I ended up returning it because it provided no real value over my 4 year old ipad 3. Good tablet for the money if you own no tablet, but not great.
4|I love it. I'm addicted to using this thing. Cameras kinda suck but for the price it's amazing. Small enough to almost be a phone. Big enough to feel like a little computer. Can play some decent games on it too. Been playing Chrono Trigger non stop.
5|Love it , Use in my plane for navigation ,better than Apple I had.....It's a shame the majority of aviation software is only written for Apple that only has 10% of the market at best & admittedly does not make the best product (previous apple owner)
5|For me and what I use a tablet for it was either this or a more expensive brand. I've owned the other brand in the past,and it works great. I got this and it works great! This Samsung tablet left more money in my pocket. The best app I've found yet.
5|I love these Samsung tablets, I bought 2 of them for my 2 sons that ate 3 and 6. I love than I can have a locking feature app, I've had these for a few months now and they still work perfectly and they are very durable! I'm very happy with them!
5|This unit does what I need such as E-mail reading and writing and research through google. I can't believe that I spent So much money on I-Pads. from now on its Samsung. 5 stars
5|Excellent. Light, fast, amazing!
5|Purchased this tablet for our 12 yr old daughter. She uses it mainly for instagram and youtube videos. The camera is ok but the video is not very good but we did not buy it for that purpose. She can use it for several hrs and the battery holds up.
5|Pro: Weight, Battery life, Price, Value, Sharpness (high resolution), Easy to carry and Easy to use, REGULAR universal microUSB cord for charging, MicroSD slot for storage Con: none
4|It's good, I wish it was a more easily rooted. I bought the small one with storing my apps on the sd card in my, however you cannot do that unless the device is rooted, i cannot seem to get it rooted properly. I've tried several different methods
5|I have purchased 4 of these (3 for grandchildren, 1 for me). For some reason, the original 3 that I purchased in December 2014 have more pre-installed software than the one I purchased for myself in May 2015. The kids are happy, so I'm happy.
5|This is lovely device from Samsung. My kid just loves it and it perfomes all the tasks which my 3 year old girl throws at it. Device is fast in processing youtube videos and in general good wed experience.Completely satisfied with the product.
3|If not for the fact this has built-in IR capability and I can use it as a universal remote, this would be almost worthless. My 6 year old iPad 2 feels snappier, and it runs the latest version of iOS. Android remains a jumbled mess in contrast.
5|I may have to reconsider buying an Apple phone....this is so excellent!!! My grandson was showing me some of the features. I bought him a Tab 3 children's edition for Christmas. Very easy to understand and use...even for me...old grumpy guy!!!
4|Starting up, it's a little slow. But I figure that's because it's updating and backing up all the apps. Overall I like the feel of it. It's not too big or too small. It's really just a larger version of my phone. Which is really all I needed.
5|I bought this for my mom as her first tablet. Simple to use for a beginner, but has everything a more experienced user would want. SOOOOO much cheaper than an iPad mini. Fits easily in my mom's purse so she can email with us when we're away!
5|Samsung has never dissapointed us! The Tablet is exactly what we were expecting and it works great! We also got it for an amazing price! You can't beat that! It was a nice upgrade from the fifty dollar Black Friday special that it replaced.
5|So, I tried the Acer Trio tablet and that didn't work out for my daughter. All I can say is that if you want something good for your self or for your child buy a product like this. You get the full bang for your buck! Its great...i love it.
2|I had hoped to have found a device that could get me away from apple but this won't stay connected to wifi when I have an iPad working fine right next to it. I will improve the rating if I find a fix, but so far this device is frustrating.
3|Great size, Calendar works great. Am switching from an iPad where I have been using notability to take notes. I have found nothing that compares to that for this Tab 4 product. If I were to do it again, I would probably go for an iPad mini.
5|Nice
2|The headphone jack stopped working within 6 months. Not really sure why it even deserves 2 stars. I don't want to come off as being unfair to the product but the hardware failed before it was 6 months old. I would not purchase this again
5|I am a samsung fan, I have a samsung tablet and decided to get one for my son for Christmas instead of a kiddy tablet I just added a kids case to it. I know I will be getting a good tablet with a samsung. Picture is beautiful. Very happy
5|choosing between this tablet and the asus zenpad 7.0 is the hardest decision I've ever made. both are great. but the brand name made me buy this Samsung tablet. so far, me decision was right. works great.
5|Bought as a Christmas gift for the wife and it is the best table out there for the price. And yes even better than the Amazon fire which I bought for my parents as a Christmas gift and think that the Fire is a hunk of junk in comparison.
5|Good buy, should hace done more research though. it is only wifi compatible and certain programs are not able to run on this tab. over all though great for my schedule, bill tracker and games which is what I really wanted it for any way.
2|The screen is bright and clear. The on / off button on the side makes holding the device difficult without turning it off on accident. The speaker on the back is wrong. This is the device I will use while I am looking for the right one.
5|I'm loving this tablet so far. Perfect for music,Web browsing and video. Bought one for my girlfriend and couldn't resist getting one for myself. I'd definitely recommend it.
5|I bought 2 of these for 149.00. Now they are up to 179. I doubt I would have paid that much had they not been on sale. I use this tablet all the time, mainly for email, but you could actually write a book on it, at least in rough draft.I am using this device all the time. I find it very useful. I bought one for myself and my wife.
1|Bought two of these for my kids. Advertised as having kids mode app included. Just tried to set it up and there is no kids mode app. When I tried to get the kids mode app from the App Store it said its not compatible with my device.
5|my son didn't like it at first but i didn't want to send it back so i kept it and loved it for a month and i asked him if he wanted it back and he said yes. i'm sure he didn't like it at first because he set it up wrong the first time.
5|Excellent tablet but I gave it to my girlfriend bcuz I got the 8 inch one instead. This one only gives u 8 gb of space. The 8 inch has 16 gb. The good thing is that u do have expandable storage tho. Other than that, it's a nice tablet.
5|Love this tablet. I own a Samsung Galaxy S 4 so the tablet is an extension of my phone with all my beloved Google Apps. Sorry I am not a techie nor a writer, so my review wont be an extensive one as the specs are very self explanatory.
5|Girlfriend wanted a tablet for Christmas, so I bought her one. It ain't an Ipad, but you gotta be careful with non-techy girlfriends who are likely to break their electronics. I'd be way more mad if I spent 5-7 times more on the Ipad.
5|This is the non-carrier tablet; wifi only. Super happy with my purchase. I just ordered a micro sd card to help with the memory since it is only 8gb (can feel the slow-ness) so hopefully this $15 fix will resolve that issue. Love it!
5|Purchased this product as a gift for relative. Great quality!! Relative loves it!! Has all the features that was needed. Truly enjoys this tab. Takes it everywhere. Easy to use. Highly recommend. Great packaging and shipping.
5|this was another tablet in the family. it is the newer style but works as good as the older ones. i also had good luck with the refurbished ones. one was not working correctly and the seller took care of it! very nice very satisfied
3|charger port broke cant return
5|Arrived prompltly, Works great
5|Love it!!! Came as expected???
5|Returned it and got the 8 inch
1|Bought it and when I opened it and turned it on the screen had white lines and it was black all I saw was white lines very disapointed wont never buy this product again. Save your money and buy something that is really worth buying
4|I have always loved the Galaxy phones so when it came time to get a tab for my daughters I knew I wanted a Samsung. It's a great tablet, easy to use (they are 11) and made a great Christmas gift. Lots of apps to pick from as well.
5|Love this tablet. No complaints as far as the device in general. Love the look and feel about. I'm glad I decided to get the 7 inch because of having small hands it makes it easier. I'd recommend this product to kids or even adults.
4|This tablet is very good for the price. It is very compact, so it can be stowed easily. You should not expect the performance specs of an iPad Mini, but unlike the iPad, you can add a microSD card for additional storage, and these tablets have a dedicated "kids mode," which limits what can be accessed, yet still have use of the camera and access to movies, shows, etc. We own two iPad Mini 2s at home, and they are great tablets, yet this Galaxy Tab 4 is also a good choice for basic use. You could buy two of these and not even come close to the price of one iPad Mini
5|Love this tablet, and it works wonderfully. However, for the same price as this tablet, you can purchase a Kindle Fire which has improved specs as far as processor and storage. But, again, I love the product and have had no issues.
5|Great tablet for the price. I used to use my phone to watch youtube, CS:GO, and browse reddit. Using this tablet is a huge upgrade to my iphone 4's small screen. Would highly recommend this tablet. Especially, for kids and seniors.
5|Absolutely perfect. I bought this for myself and it came on Christmas Eve. I have a Samsung phone that has recently ran out of space (and is slow), and so I use this mostly for apps. It loads up fast, and never has issues freezing.
4|I brought this as a present for my daughter. I did a lot of research on the tablet before I made the decision to purchase it. I think thi will be the perfect tablet for her classes and if not I will get her a Samsung Galaxy Note 8.
5|Love, Love my Samsung Tablet. I use it everday and it's almost replaced my laptop. I have everything at my fingertips. Very user friendly. Amazing options and the sound is crystal clear. Great value, awesome Christmas gift.
4|Great tablet. It's snappy, works well, beautiful, crisp display. My son has a 7 inch and I have the 8 inch. You wouldn't think one inch would make that much of a difference, but it really does, so if you can, go for the 8 inch.
4|Pros ------- Cheap Durable Beautiful Design Great Speakers Cons ------- Screen resolution isn't the greatest Slightly laggy and slow Camera & Video Recorder are underwhelming
4|I'm still learning how to use it effectively, however, although it is small I am satisfied with my tablet. A few functions I still need to learn how to use it so I can get the most, best results. I am happy with my purchase.
5|My first tablet and I love it! Long battery life, great Wi-Fi reception, and the (My First Time) Android application is easy to use and have had no issues as yet... I wish I could say the same about my IPhone. Highly recommend.
3|Ok tablet. I found it a bit sluggish, especially when running games that do not even require high specs. Google play is almost never functional so had to use other app domains. But i guess its okay especially regarding the price.
5|Bought as a gift for my husband. He refuses to get a smartphone and this enables him to access WiFi and check his email and stocks and surf the internet during lunch. He likes the 7 inch size because it still fits in his pocket.
3|first off, I own a galaxy S4 and works great, this is the reason I bought the galaxy tab 4 but within 60 min of receiving in the mail, i had printed the return label, the display is very slow. has lag and just could not bare it.
4|I love it once I figured out how to use it. If you haven't used a tablet before, find a friend who has. I've called my sister every day and she's helped even though she has a different one. There are no intensive instructions.
4|works well for us here thanks
5|Flawless so far. I'm pleased.
5|I have owned 3 tablets and the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is far superior. I was hoping this would finally meet my expectations of a lower priced tablet and it does. I recommend this tablet to everyone. Beautiful sound and picture.
4|its not bad but i liked my 8in insignia better. that had a fm radio, the screen was just as good as this one and just as fast if not faster plus the screen was bigger and cthe price was lower.but im still happy with this one
5|I love my new Samsung Galaxy Tab 4! It's sleek, easy to navigate and fits easily in my bag. It is the perfect size for traveling, which is the reason why I bought it. I do not have to lug around my heavy laptop anymore :)
5|i like this tablet can read allmy textbooks in here for school music pandora and do homework on it surf the web on the go i dont carry the charrger with me cause they have charger at starbucks and the tablet last me all day
5|Best tab I've every used. It has amazing performance and it is very reliable. The speakers sounds amazing and the battery doesn't die quickly unlike my previous tabs.
2|You get what you pay for. Mine stopped working after 6 months and I took good care of it. If you want a good tablet your going to pay $400+ for it and if you can't afford that then you will survive just fine with out it.
4|This is a nice tablet for the price. The screen is very clear and navigation is easy. I also like the parental controls built in that prevent access to the internet and any other chosen application. It get's the job done.
2|I am not satisfied with the tablet. I thought it was a good choice till I got some problems: 1. It cannot connect properly to public hotspot like Xfinity at the stations. Probably, it won't be able to connect to hotspot connections at the airport, though I've never tried. 2. It performs really unstably with its wifi function. I often see it losing internet connection unpredictably, either at my home wifi, or at my school wifi. I thought it was because the connection itself, then I noticed my iPhone was connected peacefully while the tablet performed that bad. Additionally, it always forgot my home connection's password. I have to re-enter the password every 2-3 days. 3. Its OS is claimed to be Android Kit kat 4.4 which should be supported on Google Cast Apps (especially Chromecast). It doesn't work properly with Chromecast in actual. It often lost connection with my Chromecast's TV (while my Galaxy Phone works really well). Further more, I couldn't cast my tablet's creen into TV. So I probably say that its Operating System doesn't work properly on the tablet itself either. By the way, it is the 4th one of Galaxy Tab 4 that doesn't work properly. I would request a standard refund if I didn't purchased Apps for the tablet.
5|Item arrived in a group shipment as promised. Item is as described and goes great with the Samsung Galaxy Tab extras I purchased. A great item for an entertainment as well as productive and school oriented for students.
2|I should've done more research eight gig is not enough memory there is no way to download apps directly to sd card Built like a tank so I like that part
5|I really love my Samsung Galaxy Tab, I bought one for me and one for my younger sister, they are so easy to use, very durable. I recommend it! From my 3year old nephew to my grandma we can all use this! Best tab
5|Bought this item as a gift for my nephew. He loves it!!!! Easier to use than the kindle fire he had which was stolen. The tablet arrived sooner than I had expected. Extremely happy with the product and the service!
5|Simple. awesome just awesome
4|instructions could be better
5|I absolutely love this tablet it's amazing but one flaw is the 8gb internal memory goes so quick. when you turn on the tablet for the first time it takes 4gb just for the startup so keep in mind buy a micro SD card ?
5|Functions very similarly to my Galaxy smart phone, so there was very little to learn about how the tablet functioned. So far it's great, haven't found any apps I wanted that I couldn't use or that didn't work right.
5|Had to replace a Tab 3 that died. Very pleased with the improved functionality of the Tab 4. Has similar features to my Note 4. Its too early to tell how this will hold up. But I am pleased with the next gen so far.
5|Awesome price. Awesome tablet. I absolutely love it. If your in need of a tablet this is your best bet. I was looking at buying one through my wireless provider and ended up saving over $100 by purchasing this one.
5|Nice tablet. The smaller size makes it more portable. Samsung makes great products and this pairs with my cellphone of the same ecology. If you're already in the Android ecosystem this product will fit right in.
1|I order this product in May....the end of November it completely shut off. I cant get it working.,,,very disappointed
5|This tablet is awesome. I got it for my 5 year old about a year ago now and despite him throwing it, hitting it, dropping it, and all other things little boys do to things it still works perfectly and he loves it.
5|Good Samsung product. Basically a larger version of the Galaxy phone. Mine has frozen a couple of times but good performance overall. Battery life wasn't so good at first but has gotten better after a few charges.
4|I love my new Samsung Galaxy Tab 4, I would have given it a 5 star if it had a kids mode, or maybe it does and I just haven't figured out yet. Either way it's a great little tablet and my son and I are loving it
5|We already had a Samsung Galaxy Tab 3 and when we decided to buy a tablet for our son we knew we wanted another Samsung Galaxy. We have had this tablet for about a month and it has been great. No issues at all!
5|I am delighted with my Tablet. Just learning how to use it, I found that is very simple to follow the instructions. My mother language is Spanish but I am totally satisfied with both languages. Fully recommended.
4|It works fine. Speed is OK. The only complaint I have is that it has no HDMI port. This is not a biggy, but my el-cheapo tablet has one and works. I do like this tablet, and almost wish I had the 10".
2|Lags and freezes on certain games like clash of clans and web pages while trying to scroll. Bloat ware and UI from Samsung uses too much ram. Buy some thing with more ram and better cpu is what I would recommend
5|I recently bought this Samsung galaxy tab 4 because my last tablet broke recently, this is awesome! Works fast and doesn'the take up much space while still being big enough to type for people with thick fingers.
5|It is wonderful! Screen size perfect! Easy to set up! I did much research for a tablet and the Samsung came out to be the best buy for the money! Once again Amazon....you come thru as a choice place to shop!
5|Great tablet! I have a Samsung Galaxy phone and this tablet is practically a bigger version of it. Perfect size for surfing the web while laying on the couch. It is fast and does everything that I want to do.
4|Only works with wifi. It doesn't have a slot for a sim card, therefore a data plan cannot work. The camera is not what I expected for a tab 4, however the size makes it very easy to handle and move around with.
5|I've bought these on the cheap as they have been on the market for a while. Used from Amazon Warehouse were in perfect condition. They have a nice bright screen and do everything my kids want to do on a tablet.
1|I do not like the way this works at all. I'm even thinking about returning it for a different one. I had the Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 before and it was fine it just wore out. Maybe I should go back to the same kind
5|Purchased this for my mom for Christmas. Packaging was great and the product was just as expected. She has been using the tablet everyday since Christmas and not a single problem. Very happy with the purchase.
2|Random locking up, random no touch screen response, random touch screen response, streaming videos FROM THE BUILT IN YOUTUBE APP can lag and lock up, or run slowly, it can't hold more than 1 app at a time, ect
4|Met expectations for the price paid. Bought it for my daughter. She is Netflixing and using apps with few problems. An SD card is a necessity due to little internal memory. 7 inch is good size - very portable
5|I bought this tablet for my 9 year old son. We had been through 3 cheaper tablets. They broke within months. We fight over the Galaxy all the time. I love this little tablet. I will be buying me one soon!
5|I love this tab, although it is a present for a friend, I helped her to set it up and was able to play around with it. I have the 8 inches and love both. You can't go wrong with a Samsung Galaxy tab. Thanks.
3|I loved it but after a month it would not turn on. I am going to get a new one because the product is amazing but can't give a 5 star because of that one problem. However Amazon was amazing with help with it
1|Streaming videos was an issue on Youtube. First I thought its the internet, but iPad was running fine. My friend had the same issue. We both returned it.
5|Great size for an e-reader, but you get so much more. Fast enough to play games and surf the internet. It's well built and isn't bulky. It also has decent battery life. I take this everywhere with me :)
2|As a Calibre Ebook Library user (if you haven't tried it, you should if you do a lot of digital reading) I tried to do as much research in order to find a tablet that would allow me to download my ebooks from my PC to tablet. I was looking for a tablet that I could use the Calibre Companion and had an SD card slot for the extra storage for those books which the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 7.0 has. I was so excited to get started but soon realized that because of a design choice by Google Starting with android 4.4 (kitKat) which GT4 has, it is almot impossible for CC to use removable SD cards unless your root your devise. So in essence Samsung has giving me an SD Card slot but their system is not allowing me to use it. If I had known this I probably would have continued my search and purchased a different tablet even though I like this tablet in all other respects.
4|A few quirks here and there that I dislike or find annoying. Mostly that there's no vibrations and it slows up quickly with to many apps open. It does what i need it too and it does it pretty well for 130$
5|So happy with my Tab 4. I can do all my relaxing stuff like play games, watch movies, do internet. Very easy to use unlike my previous tab which always hangs. I just added an SD card for extra memory :)
3|Works good but cannot beat a tab 2. A little slower to respond to the touch and camera is inferior to the tab 2 by a lot. For the standard that we are use to with samsung this product could of been better
5|I got this as a gift for my love and he loves it. He's always on it 24/7 when it comes to his games (clash of clans). Battery life is awesome and it's not too big...not too small. But, it is a bit pricey.
5|I am in love...... Thought no other would ever replace my iPad but samung kicks butt again ;) extremely happy with my new tablet, it's perfect size, fits into my purse, it's really light and easy to use.
5|Just the right size for my purse. I am still learning to use all the features, but everything so far is easy to use. I loaded a few games that run much faster on the Samsung than on my old tablet.
5|We bought this to take on vacation. It took great pictures, but we miss the zoom. Still learning so maybe we just haven't figured it out. So far it has been a great tablet and at a very reasonable price.
5|Amazon put this on sale last years Black Friday. Very user friendly. Long battery life. Lots of apps. I print directly from this tablet. The camera could still be better but overall it is a great tablet.
4|One irritating flaw-unable to arrange apps in alphabetical order in some simple way-evidently need to Cut and Paste each one. Camera not always in focus but may be lack of experience. still learning
5|All very well, good seller
5|Absolutely love my tablet!
5|I purchased this for my granddaughter's 15th birthday and she loves it. I also got her a wireless printer because this is her first year in high school. She can do homework assignments and print them.
1|We purchased this Tablet 4 months ago in April 2015 and today it stopped working. JUST STOPPED!!! I am so upset right now, because I have no recourse. I would not recommend this Tablet to anyone I know.
4|Not a bad tablet, I enjoy using it. Sometimes it lags a little bit but other then it does everything I need it to do. Although the tablet works great I do think apple products run smoother then android
5|Bought this for my daughter who uses it at school and enjoys playing her games on it. She watches youtube and other videos. The sound quality is great. She has had it for over a year and not issues.
5|Had gotten this for a gift the 1st one that got sent on the bottom left had a dark area and would turn it's self off asked for a replacement had no problems got it fast nothing wrong with this one!
4|Great. But I had to return it for the tab pro 8.4. Because I needed a better camera and more storage space. But I'd you are looking for something small, SMALL, efficient and trustworthy, BUY THIS.
5|This was a Christmas gift for my little sister she is 8 and this was just perfect for her she has learning games and other games and really loves this. So we were very happy and satisfied with this Tab
4|I really like this tablet. It's very quick and zippy. The only thing I don't like about it is when I use it in public people ask me if it is a phone. Because it's essentially shaped like a giant phone.
5|I got one of these, and the wife loved it so much that this one was for her. Now we're ordering another for our son. Small and lightweight, but still big enough to really use like a tablet not a phone.
5|This qas a gift for my husband for our 2nd wedding anniversary. He wanted it for some time now since his kindle fire stopped working 2 years ago. He is loving this galaxy tablet and uses it every day.
5|1st one I got had issues getting a strong WiFi signal. Sent back to amazon free of charge and a new one showed up 2 days later. And it works just fine. Really love it. And amazon is amazing as usual.
5|So far so good! I have a 10 inch Samsung Galaxy 4 as well, and the 7 inch is just as good. This was a gift, and it's a nice one, indeed! Color is vivid, and is much more stable than cheap tablets.
4|The tablet was in perfect condition. It's bigger than a phone, better for reading and browsing, but still not big enough for full web functionality. You still get sent immediately to mobile websites.
3|Can not text message with it. The graphics and color are great. the commands are slick and responsive. I wish I could use it more as a portable device but with out the net it is dead in the water.
5|Awesome little tablet! My 9 & 11 year old love it!! I would love it too, even as an adult! The screen is amazing! The colors are very vivid and clear. The battery lasts along time. We can't complain!
5|To see how crisp and clear the quality of the display is, makes this purchase beyond worth it. we use it as a second screen or when all 3 tvs are occupied and my daughter wants to watch movies.
5|Have had this tablet for a little over a year now and love it. Havent had any issues with it at all. Item as described and expected. Very happy with this purchase. Would highly recommend to anyone.
5|This is the pad to get for the least expense and problems. Most tablets that are cheaper have bugs and don't last more than 3 months. This tablet holds charge well, has ample memory for most users.
5|Portable, can fit in small size hand bags, has majority of the features of other Android devices, sd card compatible, the volume could have been a bit louder and it doesn't come with earphones.....
3|I bought this because it was a bargain at $139.99. Amazon had 8 inch version at the time for $247.99. I could not justify this price difference. After receiving item, the price of 8 inch version dropped to $189.99 (white) I think this tablet is too small for my taste. When using the remote application, the text describing television shows is very small. The tablet is responsive, smooth and quite nice looking. So the battle went on because I will lose 15 percent of cost due to it being a used computer product but I no longer cared. I always was going to wish I went with 8 inch version. That one is due here Wednesday. Based on everything I tried - I know I will be pleased. Remember too that the 8 inch version has double the capacity. In the end, its a matter of taste. The seven inch size for me is not enough. I need the best balance for usability and portability. In the end, because of my mistake, I will be paying an extra 21 bucks for the new larger version. But at a total of $210.99, it could have been worse. I cannot wait until it arrives. In the meantime I am sending back this one tomorrow.
4|My wife loved her google nexus, but needed to update/upgrade a bit. This is an excellent little tablet with a gorgeous screen. She loves it and the expandability via sd card make s it very useful.
5|I love my tablet I called customer service to assist with adding to my plan No one has help get it connected they couldn't find any of the information needed to get it connected. Please help!!!!!
5|Love the Samsung products
5|My first tablet. Love it.
5|I love this tablet. Fast easy to use. I recommend this to anyone who decides to get a tablet. This Samsung galaxy tab 4 7.0 came early and I ordered it a day ago. Perfect and great for the price
5|You can do many fun activities on the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. Internet is smooth and quick on this tablet. light weight and easy to hold in hand. Video quality is wonderful. Sound quality is good.
2|One team works well ecelentement the other , or on, now is not whether to take the decision to send ... l am looking way to cover me l guarantee in Venezuela and I have not encotrado the way ...
5|This tablet fits between the two seats in my car it also fits in my carrying case that makes this tablet very portable and if your looking for a tablet that is portable you know where to buy it.
5|I am obsessed with this tablet. It works spectacularly. It's absolutely perfect for me to read on or catch up on shows. It's not too big nor too small. I'm having the grandest of times with it.
5|I have had this tablet for 3 weeks and it is great. I must say for the money this tablet is well worth it. I recommend this product for anyone looking to purchase a tablet at a good price.
5|My son's ipod touch was so old it wouldn't down load any new games. Saw this and bought it for him on his b day. Tab 4 is cheaper, bigger and all around better than an ipod touch. Kid loves it
5|I purchased this as a Christmas present for my dad. It arrived on time and it works excellent. Although it's only 8GB, there is a slot for a microSD card. Overall I am happy with the purchase.
5|Great product from Samsung. True have a few other Samsung products son it is a natural fit into my family using the Samsung interface from phone and Tablets. I would recommend this product!
4|Cheapest tablet on the market, good for every day use, but eventhough it has a powerful processor, it still has issues to run higher quality games. Not optimal, but still ok for this price...
2|This tablet is bare bones when it comes to features. It runs android kit Kat, but it doesn't even support features like USB on the go, which has been around since '01. The 1 GB of RAM isn't enough frankly, video and games lag. The WiFi constantly needs to be refreshed because it loses connection. Finally tuye cameras are junk, and the screen resolution is really only good for light web browsing. In fact as I am typing this, the text box is fritzing out blinking black, and then showing me the text at random... ... I am getting rid of this thing and getting something better.
5|Excellent. I love this tablet. I already had one for myself, so I bought my children one. A step up from the tab 3. They have everything Samsung is known for plus new things not on the tab 3.
5|Great tablet. My husband loves it. It works well for everything and he uses for everything. I got extra storage card but he doesn't even need it, it holds a lot of information. Great OS too.
5|Bought this as a Christmas gift for my daughter. She is very happy with it! Barely uses her laptop anymore. Now my husband wants one, because he is spoiled I will be ordering one for him :-)
5|This is a great tablet , will not play games like farmville , but will do most anything else. Have been using it for a few months now and have had no problem with the battery charging.
5|I bought it for my mom's 60 birthday and she loves it. Is her first tablet so I didn't want to invest a lot in case she didn't learn how to use it but it was definitely at most have for her
5|Love it and works great!
4|This was for my 9 year old son who previously had a Samsung galaxy tab 2. Huge upgrade from that. My son says it glitches out or lags during some game play, but other than that it's good.
5|The Galaxy Tab is something to pine over, no matter what tablet or company preference you may have (Apple, Microsoft). It is a celebration of the tablet genre and it's outrageously quick.
2|Every now and then my galaxy tab screen will turn dark and then later get brighter. Also it will only let my headphones work on one side and sometimes it wont let me here anything at all!
5|I love my Tab 4. This thing is fast and exactly what I wanted in a tablet. I store a small portfolio of my photography on it. The picture quality is amazing on this! Ya I love it.
1|the lights that the tablet have next to the start button, the ones that works to go back and to open de last seen apps are not working.
5|This was a great buy. The tablet is beautiful, thin but durable. I loved the android operating system it came with. The memory is sufficient forbour needs. Really really great for kids.
5|Bought a refurbished one from PrimeDeal for $139.99 and couldn't be happier. It's the same as a brand new tablet but for cheaper because the box wasn't in perfect condition. Amazed.
5|I bought this for a gift for my son. He can't take his eyes off it until he gets distracted. Seems to have all the functionality of an Ipad for $100 less. He can't tell the difference.
5|Got this for my wife for christmas geat screen and perfect size for her she has smaller hands lol she absolutely loves it becouse its a bigger version of her samsung galaxy s5 phone
5|At first I was a little worried about buying this tab 4 used,but I love it . It looks and performs like new it's bright,fast and just the right size !
5|Replaced a Nexus 7 that had gotten very intermittent with the last software upgrade-extremely frustrating; but the Tab 4 workload perfectly and quickly from the get-go. Very pleased.
5|Excellent quality, i have numerous Samsung products, they're easy to use, have uber features and well designed. Amazon price was a fraction of retail stores. Amazon fast shipping. A++
5|Great tablet for the money. Easy to operate and no problems yet. Samsung makes great products and we've never had any issues with them at all, so we don't expect any with this tablet.
4|So, I love Samsung's Galaxy line (I own several Galaxy phones, a Galaxy tablet, and have recommended Galaxy products to others) and *for the most part* this tablet did not disappoint.
5|Bought it for my mom, she's always wanted a tablet. She CRIED! It's so big and beautiful! The perfect size! Anything bigger would've been ridiculous! It's an amazing piece of tech (:
3|Love it easy to use. If you can figure out a smart phone, you can use this tablet. Especially at my age of 64, ease of operation is important. This was my first and I really like it.
5|my daughter loves it, has had it for almost a year now, and it works great except a small problem with charging it! I bought the extended warranty though, so we won't have a problem!
2|So disappointed in this tablet... Waited to buy one decided on Samsung and so upset about downloading apps... From nowhere all of a sudden apps that I can't get rid of downloaded....
5|Very consistent brand, we had previous version and we are still happy. My teen uses this to play games, work on homework, and browse the internet. Operation is fast and consistent.
3|Unfortunately, this tablet did not meet my needs. I wanted this to plug into my tv, and stream. It does not have that function. It did look nice, and the screen was clear and crisp.
5|This has everything I want and more in a tablet. The size is a little small for me but my wife finds it perfect for on the go. At its current price point nothing can beat this beal!
5|Love this tablet perfect size for traveling, great for watching movies ebooks games light weight portable great response. WiFi is a little sluggish in response but still works well
4|I purchased this for my daughter in September. she loves it. Only issue is that its been 7 months, and its not charging at all... I am reaching out to the seller to find a solution.
4|the image is very clear
3|Its difficult to figure out how to store apps, it doesnt have a lot of built in memory and I bought a microSD card but somehow it wont let us save apps to the microSD. Very strange
5|Great device, great tablet. Samsung us the best as always. Also nice pricing on the product. Usually it is sold at stores for around $350.00 but TechGiant made it available for me.
5|Excellent. no issues and my son is completely pleased with his tablet. Size is a bit small for adult use, but the memory storage is adequate enough. My son uses this for app games.
5|use it everyday to read and play clash. love it a lot. had to get because i dropped my tab 3 on the concrete. I like the viewing angle better then the tab 3. got at a great price.
5|My son has been working with Kindle Fire's. They work well, but Amazon has a system that does not work well with android apps. He hasn't been off Clash of Clans since he got it.
5|We wanted something smaller than a regular tablet. Bought this because it was convenient and easy to take along without it being bulky. It keeps the kids entertain when traveling.
5|Awesome product. I got it for my one year old daughter and she loves it. It's very easy to manuever and really kid friendly. I'm now thinking of getting one myself.
5|ok this is great. I can text ,call friends and use it as a remote control for my tv. Yes there is more I can use this for and it is the perfect size. I wonder why I need a phone.
5|The resolution and function are all handy and excellent. The price is very affordable. If you are not using it for lengthy reading or games, you don't have to buy 8-inch version.
5|This is an excellent tablet, it was purchased for my wife and she loves it. The battery life is great and the display is bright, sharp and clear. We would recommend this tablet.
5|only problem is there are no instructions on how to set this up. I am not a computer person so I needed to get help from someone to get started. once that was done it works great
5|Very crisp, clean display. I love Samsung anyway but their tablets and phones are amazing. It helps having good vendors and Amazon had a seller nearby! It was my door in a flash!
5|Arrived earlier than said. Packaged very well. Love it so much more than the Kindle I just bought. The Kindle is good but it's to simple and basic so I'm giving it to my husband.
5|Upgraded my 8 year old daughter to this tablet from a nabi 2. Very impressed. Love that it is micro sd expandable and has access to google play & amazon app stores. She loves it.
5|I bought this tablet for my home inspection business and it works flawlessly. Software was easy to install. The screen size is very comfortable. I'm very happy with this product.
4|Great Tablet in a lot of ways. Very useful tool. It gets used a lot. Perfect size. Only gas 8 gig on Hard Drive, though. Loses day and time every time it's turned off.
5|Bought this for my daughter for Christmas. My husband set the basic up already, so far so good. It came nicely packaged, no damages and shipped quickly. Will update any changes.
5|Yes, it has. I use it pretty much everyday, in fact, i'm using it right now to give you my review and feedback. I purchased another one, specifically for my mom for mothers day.
5|My Experience with this has been AWSOME, I ordered the tablet as a gift , it actually arrived earlier than expected, The Tablet works great and I know they really appreciate it.
5|This tablet is perfect for my desires. Check emails, twitter, facebook, check news, weather, sports scores and a couple of games. I would recommend this tablet to anyone I know.
5|I have had 3 of the Galaxy Tab series all of which are great. This one as well. Small & light. The battery lasts a long time. I also like that it has a slot for a micro SD card.
5|Love the tablet, great for the price. In a lot of respects better than the iPad. But larger screen is hard to beat! Is a great deal and I would recommend to any future buyers.
5|My kids are going to love these for the holidays. Just took a little longer to arrive according to the arrival/delivery date but other than that the product is awesome...Thanks
4|This was supposed to be new, but when I opened it, I could see fingerprints under the plastic. It has obviously been opened and returned or someone has done something with it.
5|Just love it! I bought two, one for me and one as a gift And we both enjoy the tablets. I strongly recommend that you get the 16 Meg memory. It makes everything run faster.
5|I love this !!! It was easy to set-up. The picture quality is perfect. The size is just right for my small hands. The screen is very responsive. Sounds are loud and clear.
5|Very nice tablet. I was surprised at how well laid-out things were (once you get used to it). Display is nice and the unit is very responsive. Charges last a decent while.
5|I love this tablet. I upgraded from a Tab 2. Use it mostly for reading and web browsing, which it's great for. Battery lasts a couple days with normal use. No complaints.
4|I'm giving this tablet a 4 out of 5 stars only because the camera isn't that good. I wish the pictures would come out more clear and focused. Other then that it works great!
5|Got it for husband, he does not have a smart phone, so can do everything except make calls, really better he can video chat on it with the grand kids in another state m
5|Excellent product received on time it was packed without any damage And it works after iinitial charge unlike my previous order that was sent back. Enjoying using android 4.4
2|I wanted to like this tablet but I ended up returning it. There are a number of things that hold this tablet back. On the positive side, it is a great size for commuting and can easily be held in one hand but the is pretty much where the good stuff ends. On the bad side, the display is only 1200 x 800 which is not that great for watching video. I also found screen glare to be a big problem when trying to view videos outside. Second, there is a ton of bloatware on this device which you simply cannot delete. Too much memory is devoted to junk software nobody wants and you are left with just a few Gigs of memory free for other stuff. You can add an external SD card but as others have said, there isn't much you can actually move from the device to the card due to the version of Android OS this thing runs. I did some more research and ultimately decided on the Asus Zenpad S 8" with 64GB of memory and 2048 x 1536 display. It costs almost $300 but was worth it.
5|Wonderful little machine that I truly enjoy on a daily basis....Can't wait to take some pictures at my two golf tourneys back in Canada...hopefully all will work fine..
5|Fast simple lots of memory, especially if you add SD card. Fast internet functions, Super HD screen easy read. A little slippery to hold really need a non slip cover for it.
5|Bought for my mother in law as a birthday gift. She loves it. No complaints at all.. Bought as a refurb, but came as if it was brand new. No regrets on this purchase at all.
5|My daughter loves it!!
5|I'm a huge Samsung fan and love this product. Some of the data storage is rough when you load up too many games, but the easy to access external storage makes up for that.
3|No auto brightness. Don't give in to the brand. You can find a tablet with more ram for less money. The camera is not as good as the competition either. Get a Nexus 7 2013.
4|Got used to Apple products and when I bought this it's was kind of hard to figure out but it's a really good tablet. Headphone plug in broke the 2nd day. Kinda mad at that.
1|Product Wifi stopped working after three months. The problem is that you cannot turn on wifi which may be a hardware issue.
5|Never a disappointment with Samsung Galaxy. This tablet is a great deal for the price. This is the second one I have purchased. The first was for me and the second a gift.
5|I love it! I use it all the time for my schoolwork, as my college no longer has hard-cover books, and everything is done online now! It's perfect for what I need it for.
5|I purchased the Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 for my 81 year old grandmother. She was borrowing mine as a test, and she wanted her own. It's her first tablet ever and she LOVES it.
5|Purchased to replace my Nexus7 that Google ruined w/an update, and it's replacement a Kindle Fire 6, which I liked but their app store is restricted. Couldn't be happier.
5|Works like all my other samsung tablets. Much better product than the other brands. We had the rca brand from another retailer and had to return it in less than 30 days.
5|Great product works well. For the price $180 would be nice if it had more memory. Basically used it as a stand alone gps on vacation in europe and it performed well.
3|I am seriously disappointed that the charging cord has already stopped working. Thank goodness that some charging ends are now universal so I can still charge my tablet!
2|Really is a good product and brand, but for this purchase the tablet looks have a deffect with the power/lock button action when I was trying to unlock, so I returned it.
5|didn't know what i was missing, then i got this tab, and now i'm not missing anything anymore! does all it says, plus. love it love it love it, and easy to navigate too
4|tablet is what I expected it to be. still figuring out how to use it but what I have used meets my needs. seems to be of good quality and I hope it lasts for a long time.
5|I got this brand new back in March of this year for 149.99 couldn't beat the price and you still can't!!! It's a great device for when I don't have my laptop handy.
5|Perfect tablet for my 2 year old. Has a kids mode where he can't access the rest of the tablet. Wish youtube was able to be put on the kids part but can't unfortunately.
4|Nice inexpensive tablet if you like Android. I went back to the ipad because I like the OS better. Works great and feels nice in the hand. Yeah, that's what she said.
4|My daughter really loved getting this for Christmas! I must say the price was excellent too. So much cheaper then a iPad and for a child I wasn't about to pay that much.
5|TAB 4, so AWESOME! My MOM"S Christmas Present from my Sister and I! She LOVES IT!!! Gaming 24/7 365! Thank YOU! ---> Sincerely, Christopher
3|Slower processor than expected. My galaxy phone is so much faster, I thought this would be comparable but it has a hard time keeping up, even just opening applications.
5|a tablet that is better than most people think, striking a balance between price and technological prowess. It is both an office powerhouse and an entertainment device.
2|Out of 2, one quit working after a year (can't even charge it) and the other now seems to be on its way. Having the same errors as the other one did before it went out.
1|Box came opened should have been my first guess Tablet stopped working after one month and now refuses to turn on Went to Samsung they said this happens often
3|I'm having getting connection in my own home when I move away from the monitor. Don't have very clear instructions on how to operate it, wish I had a handbook with it.
5|Great product! No problems since I bought it two weeks ago. Everything works great with it! I recommend a Mr. SHIELD screen protector if you do decide to purchase one.
4|Nice tablet for young kids. Screen resolution is ok. Make sure you get the micro SD for it, as the pre-installed software takes up over 1/2 of the on-board memory.
1|I bought 2 for my boys for christmas. Both have issues with the SD card going bad and neither one will keep an Internet connection. Very disappointed in the product.
5|Just received it today. Love it so far. I have the Galacy S5 so I know how to use this tablet and upgrading my phone wont be necessary. I have what i need right here
5|I bought this some months ago and I love it so much that when my husband needed a new tablet, I ordered him the same thing. He likes his just as well as I like mine.
5|Yes it did meet my expectations and more in terms of GPS remote control and pixels am still learning and being amazed needs to get me a case and screen protector ?
4|My 11 y/o son really enjoys this tablet. Performs as expected in every way except in certain games the graphics are not very clear. Other than that...he loves it!
5|One of the best tablets ever. I had bought 3 different brands for my grandson and most were horrible, didn't last. The Samsung is the only one I would ever buy now.
4|Not bad, but next time I will buy something with more built-in storage so I can install many apps (probably a Nexus).
2|Below is my review based on usage/trying to use it for the past 1 year. Bought it around 2014 thanks giving. Good for basic usage, not good for games etc.. I purchased this for my son thinking that he SD card provides a good way to expand memory but it is a sham. It cannot be used for everything. Pros: screen, resolution and finish are very nice. nice form factor. Price. Cons: Lots of bloatware: 8 gig model has over 4 gigs of unremovable bloatware. Can't install apps to sd card. So memory expansion using SD card is a joke. Bad camera.. both front and back. Frequent dropping of wifi Touchscreen lags so if you are on a page that is updating you will have to wait for several seconds or even minutes before you can press the web link you want. The keyboard frequently misses inputs and the o and p swap places often. No updates since an year.
4|This is the second samsung 7 inch tablet I'd purchased. The first one frozen and began to overheat. I'm familiar with samsung products and am a satisfied customer.
5|Way better than discribed. Surprised how big the screen was once I had actually held it in my hand. Color good, picture good, and very light. Well worth the price.
5|Samsung Galaxy is amazing I recommend it picture quality is clear. Settings are simple and direct. You can do it all on samsung Galaxy. This is number two love it.
5|We purchased a refurbished Tab 4 and have had no issues. It took us through setup just like a new one would. There were no cosmetic or technical issues whatsoever.
5|No complaints with this tablet so far! Great battery, even on standby. Unbelievable price as tablet to give a tween - great size, not a kindle & beautiful screen!
5|This is an awesome tablet. I like the size, just perfect for stashing in my purse and the screen is still big enough to see. I am very happy with this purchase.
4|Had it for about a week love it so far....shipped fast even got her early! Only complaint is most things can't be stored on ur SD card so u run out of room fast..
5|Very nice - gave as gifts to husband and son for Christmas! I have the 10" Galaxy tablet and love it. They needed something more compact and this was ideal!
3|Keep freezing and acting weird. Also the first one that i bought came with problem. I did return it and get one without the IR sensor. Anyway isn't Amazon fault.
4|Nice device. Cheap and usefull. But if you want a tab bigger than a Smartphone, with nice camera and with a nice screen, Don't buy this. This tab is a basic one.
4|I'm a Samsung die hard. Love this tablet, should have got the larger one, this is a bit small but works great when I don't feel like lugging the laptop around!
1|Purchased this at the end of November, my child received it on Christmas and by February it stopped charging past 37%, now won't charge at all. Waste of money!
5|Great Phone, Great Supplier who resolves problems quickly and without and hoops to jump through. Recommended the phone and supplier to several friends already.
5|Very nice tablet!! I bought to replace a 10 tablet, and was anxious that it would be too small, but that concern quickly went away. The table is very useful!
4|I use this tablet as a platform for photo editing and display. The quality of the screen is great. My only complaint is that there is no USB storage support.
5|This is the second one I purchased. The first went to my wife. She uses it every day. This one is mine. It is just the right size for casual internet use.
3|like it but it wouldn't allow me to download certain apps....candy crush, candy crush soda, WhatsApp...etc. isn't compatible with all app store games or apps
5|I have an iPad Air and Samsung Galaxy 4, I use both of them everyday, each one has its own Pros and Cons, if I have to keep one only, I choose Samsung Galaxy.
5|Use it primarily as a reader in bed. The 7-inch size is perfect for reading - in portrait mode. Nice, though, to have the other apps handy when I want them.
5|This is my 4th Android device. All the previous ones were older, or cheapos. This time I had one criteria - speed. And I am so happy, this is fast, very fast.
5|Love this tablet! :)
5|Bought this as a gift for my Grandson. He called twice to thank me. Once because his parents told him to call. The second time to tell me he really liked it.
4|I've had this product for about a month now, and I must say, $150 is a heck of a price. I've had no issues except some stuttering here and there. Four Stars.
5|My daughter loves this! She can do everything on this that she can do on a smart phone (except calling - which is not important for her as she is too young).
5|The tablet was perfect it's my 1st tablet or device that's not apple and I have to say I really like android and probably plan to buy more of their products.
5|Did works excellent had it for 7 months only thing is I can hook it up to my car radio cause it makes so funny noise when I turn it up to the highest volume
5|Good for everyday use because its just the right size which makes it easy to carry around. The price for quality is the best part of this product. Love it!!
3|I like the tablet and it does all that it promised. The one problem that I have with it is that it does not read OTG devices, although it has andriod 4.2.2.
5|Thank you! your product is just as you described, I'm so pleased with it, I received it the date was expected and very well packed. it's new as you offered
3|It's not good on security. The headphone jack stopped working a several times. Could not update it to android l. Samsung said it was eligible for lollipop.
5|Best tablet I've ever had. Does all of my homework plus I can get app to help with my studying. Small enough so it doesn't take up a lot of room in my bag.
5|I'm on it constantly, just wish there was a way to hook it up to WiFi all the time so we could use it in the car!! It could be great on trips with my son!!
5|Perfect Christmas gift for my daughter. Purchased sans disk and she will now have all her movies uploaded and ready to view when she opens it on Christmas.
3|Does not seem fast. I have fast wifi and the signal drops. Pages streaming takes forever. I have not watch a full movie on it yet. Only reason I bought it.
5|This little gem works well and should be all we need for a vacation. We got tired of taking a lap top along, this will be much lighter and easier to pack.
5|I bought for my mom, she loves it!. Not complaints, I would recommend it, it's lightweight, portable, and get the job done so, she loves it, I like it too.
5|i bought 6 of these to donate to a school where i work in rural Nepal. after teaching the villagers how to use it i came home and got one for myself too!
5|I love love ' new tablet. Love the price too! Why would anyone buy new at full price? Ive had it for 6months now, and love it as much as I did on day one!
5|My wife will love this!! Nice crisp clean picture. She will be able to see pretty well on it, which is a biiiiig plus for me. Great product thanks guys!!
5|may not be the best handset tablet ever made, but this one's greater than any other tablets on its price range. the best way to spend your hundred bucks.
5|My children use it daily. This was a great buy. It looks great. It functions great. It is not too big or too small. I would definitely buy it again.
5|Shipping was super slow. Paid additional for 3 day shipping. Took well over 10 days. The device although is awesome. Simple to use and very entertaining.
5|What's not to love? Great resolution, intuitive to use, and the perfect size for reading, games and surfing. I should have replaced my old Nook sooner!
5|I love it! It's very portable and helpful. As a model, it is a great to help me stay organized with my photo shoots and other things I have going on...
3|Pretty good Galaxy tablet. Just remember that its not the best, try and remember to close your apps when you're finished, it tends to lag if you don't!
5|delivered on time and working well so far no problems. inserted memory card and extended the memory and my daughter and i are having fun on our tablets
5|Is a very good product. Have not had any problem with it. I have a NEXUS 7 that is a lot more easier to operate. I really like both of them very much
5|Purchased this for my son. He has absolutely loved the tablet. The kids mode allows us to set time limits and ensure he plays on the apps we designate!
5|Super fast and light....small enough to put in ur pocket for those of us who really don't like laptops and big tablets....get it....you won't regret it
3|Don't love it, kinda small. Had some problems with it shutting off by itself, customer service guided me through a complete reset and it seems OK now.
4|worked perfectly out of the box. user information poor, ok for experienced android users information concerning hiddenswitches is a must and lacking.
5|I love this tablet!
5|Love it, good price
4|DOES NOT HAVE SCREEN MIRRORING CAPABILITIES! Other than that its gray and does a lot of what my Glaxy note tab 8.0 does, aside from lacking an s pen.
5|I just love this tablet. Bought a refurb one, but could not tell any difference between this and a new product. Flawless!!! Thank you AMAZON for this
5|Great tab buy two for my kids and surely surprise it's one great performance tablets it can do stuff phone can do plus google software work perfectly
5|Product arrived on schedule and in perfect condition. It works wonderfully. It's fast and responsive. A really great tablet especially for the price.
5|product of very good quality, 100% satisfied with your purchase recommend this product to all my friends and customers amazon demanded of such items.
5|Great product for the price and the perfect size for all its functions! Glad I purchased it! I even stream movies with it and the screen is perfect!
5|nothing to do, Samsung is a great brand, I don't think I have to say anything else, EXCELLENT PRODUCT, great performance, very fast, love my tab 4...
3|Very good product, shipping on time. The shipping box a little big, if possible try to use smaller boxes to save international transportation costs.
4|Very good product, shipping on time. The shipping box a little big, if possible try to use smaller boxes to save international transportation costs.
4|It didnt come with a charger!! I thought it'd be obvious that a charger should be included. Guess not. other than that the tablet wasn't too shabby
5|Looks and works like a bigger version of the Samsung Note or Galaxy. Not as bulky as some of the tablets in the same price range. So far so good.
5|It's a powerful tablet in a very low price. It may be a product of capitalism but it's undeniable that it makes our life 300% easier. Great device!
5|Perfect as a backup for larger tablets/laptops/PC. Good quality and screen quality is typical of a samsung product. The price paid was exceptional.
5|This tablet is great for using square in my restaurant. Its small enough to carry around but large enough for my older customers to see the screen
5|the specs of this device are half lower than that of the Zenpad 7.0 by Asus. quite a nice try by samsung. bought this yesterday and it works well.
5|Excellent. Works just like the Galaxy phones! Tried RCA and Nexus tablets. Both were buggy lemons from the beginning. Should have started here.
3|This tablet is a bit slow on start up but after it gets up and going it works good. Not a real long battery life but that is not a problem for me.
5|I bought this for work, wasn't expecting it for at least a few more days! Very happy with the tablet and the targus case! The price was fantastic!
5|I gave this tablet to my mom as a birthday gift and she loved it. it is really easy to hold and it has great quality especially on YouTube videos.
3|Really nice tablet but with crumby Samsung confusing extras. Kind of like the guys who get a BMW and put all kinds of chintzy cheap extras on it.
5|It's a great tablet, not too big not too small, I would definitely recommend it, I brought it for my granddaughter and is perfect, we love it!
5|It was a great Christmas gift for my son. It is everything I expected. It was delivered in a timely manner and incident free. Will purchase again.
5|It works great!!!. My daughter loved her Santa gift. She graduated from a Kindle Fire to the Galaxy Tab 4, on her way to a smart phone eventually.
5|I had a Kindle before purchasing the galaxy Tab 4. Another good decision. Excellent quality. Exceeds the Kindle in every aspect. Perfect for me.
5|I loved this tablet , came perfectly packaged to Caracas - Venezuela , totally new and original, thank you very much , I recommend widely seller.
4|This samsung galaxy tab 4 very very very good candition even charging nothing problem very good experience .
4|This is a good galaxy device, I just don't know how present and accurate skype and some apps are. It seems delayed but other than that it's nice.
3|Sometimes the volume goes really low so you have to reset it by holding the power button and down volume button at the same time until it resets.
5|Great little tablet. I love Samsung products. My only issue with it is that the speaker is not very loud. Other than that, performance is great.
5|This was a gift for my dad. As his first tablet its good and with an addition of a case he carries the thing everywhere. He loves it & I'm happy!
5|This is a hit with my grandson enjoying all the features and keeps in touch with overseas relatives and friends. Great capacity for downloading.
4|The only I did not give the tablet five stars was because it is difficult to connect the charger to the tablet when the tablet is inside a case.
5|This is a pretty nice Android tablet. I've had no problems with it, or buyer's remorse, and it performs exactly as I expected, so yeah. 5 stars.
5|It's simply a wonderful tablet. I bought it as a gift for my mother and it works beautifully. It's easy for her to use and to set up on her own.
1|Worked fine for a couple months then dropped Wi-Fi connection and will not reconnect. Checked timer, then did a factory reset and still nothing.
5|Ordered 2 for my kids. They are great. One wasn't working right, but Amazon sent a new one that is working perfectly! The exchange was flawless.
5|Love the size. It feels good in your hand. Wish the memory was more but i did add an SD card to it. Very fast and will recommend it to everyone.
5|I love this tablet! It's the first one I've owned but it eorks perfect without any problems. Samsung even gave me free stuff for registering it.
5|This is a nice tablet to have with its clear viewing of videos, and is easy to carry. I got this after I have previously owned a Samsung Tab 3.
4|tablet works fine, but had some physical defect on edge, and the charging cord didn't work, just used one the many cords I have around here....
4|Great product. Seems to have come out of Poland or something as when encrypting it changes to polish language for performing the un-encryption
5|I didn't like it at first. Unless you are very computer literate, it's a little hard to figure out how to use it. It could be more user friendly. Fortunately, I went to my local computer store, CyberDark, and one of the guys that works there is an expert. He showed me everything I wanted to know. I'm sure there is more I could do with it...but I don't have the patience to fiddle with it and unless I use the function all the time... I can't remember how to do it. I bought the tablet because I love to read and I have not had good luck with Kindles. The Kindle app works perfectly on the tablet for reading. The tablet is also a nice size; not to big, not to small and not to heavy. It fits in my purse nicely. I use it to go on facebook and read my e-mail. So for what I need...it's great!
4|Pretty good tablet
5|Daughter loves it!
5|Excellent Product!
5|My dream come true
5|EXCELENTE PRODUCTO
1|It's supposed to have the Ir blaster that's what it is advertised with, but it doesn't have it. Very disappointed that why I got it as a gift.
4|light weight, easy to sync with my phone only draw back is hidden applications and system take up almost all of storage without a memory card.
4|i found a little dot on the screen when it was off and also I have noticed a little dent on the back. I called Samsung for repair or exchange.
4|I love it so much! I gave it 4 stars because my charger is not a bit faulty.. but aside from it my son is loving his new Samsung Galaxy Tab 4
5|I really loved it, it's just been a day I got this nice wonderful tab, I know it's to early to come to a conclusion but this is worth a buy
4|I bought this for my son for Christmas. And so far he loves it it is a very good tablet with a good operating system. Very good for the price
4|Received my tablet today very quick delivery happy with it so far but I noticed that at times I have to press hard just to change screens
4|Does what any other Samsung tablet does with less power, lower quality feel, and lower specs in general. For the price it works well for me.
5|I have been using this for a long time and other than the battery issues I have been experiencing only recently, this is a pretty great tab.
5|I've had a few tablets through the years, but this is the best! Beautiful screen quality, very fast and easy to manage settings, files etc.
2|Tablet ok but too expensive for 8gb tablet! I would recomend Kindle 7 before rhis which i also bought. Touch screen....I am not impressed.
5|This is the perfect size and weight. I also have the 10" tablet, which is perfect for home use, but the 7" is great for traveling.
5|I love my tablet. It is exactly like my phone so I already know how to use everything on it. Would definitely recommend it to other buyers!
4|Got it for my 7yr old to play games on when on road trips. She enjoys it, so we like it too. Recognized the 64 gig card, so that's a bonus.
5|I loove this tablet! The screen is so bright and clear. And it's just as good as other tablets that charge hundreds of dollars more. 5stars
5|This little tablet is adorable and does it's job! If you want more space, I would suggest to get a micro USB. That makes it so much better.
5|I bought this for my daughter's birthday, it's easy to use and she loves it, I love that you can put a timer on it and put it in kids mode.
5|I'm definitely in love with this tablet. I mostly use it to read E-books and it doesn't hurt my eyes to look at the screen for a long time.
5|My son loves it. He's had the Kindle Fire for a few years, and wanted something Android based. This was a great tablet for a good price.
5|I love my tablet. I have not used it a lot so far but every time I do I find more cool things with it. It will become like my right arm.
4|Just a version of my S5 minus the phone. Awesome display. A SD card is a must. Great for surfing and Prime movies. It was delivered FAST.
4|This was purchased for my 16 year old daughter. It does exactly what we expected and she's very happy with it ! Price wasn't bad either !
5|Fantastic tablet for the money. I bought it for my 2 year old grandson, added SD card and loaded it up with movies for him. He loves it!
2|Purchased in December as a Christmas gift. Now (it's July ) it no longer works. Can't charge it, has no power. Didn't even last a year.
5|The tablet came in on time and in great condition. Perfect for reading comics, which is great because that is my primary use for a tablet.
5|I bought this for my hubby for a gift, he is a truck driver, he loves this, easy to use and fun to "play" with while on wait time!
5|One of a kind tablet for a very low price! Its quality is better than any other tablet and smartpads today. Great power and sleek design.
5|I absolutely love this! So much fun to have and especially useful for locating areas. Great color and sound. The price is exceptional.
4|As much as I like this tablet, and all it offers, the camera is just downright terrible. Otherwise, this is a great device for the money.
4|The tablet is satisfactory for the price, however if you are willing to fork out anotDr 50 to 100 dollars you will get much better value.
5|Works great for all my tablet needs. Not too large so its easy to carry but the screen is still big enough to easily see what I'm doing.
5|second one that i have owned works well, battery last me all night. I use it on my paper route to keep a scroll-able list of customers.
5|Love my new tablet! Have no negative things to say about it. Working wonderfully and the battery is great.. can go days without charging
5|Love my new tablet. Can't seem to put it down. Always searching for new app at the app store. This item is a must for yhe family. Thanks
3|Nice, nice. I've been wanting one for a long time and was unsure of which one to buy. The Samsung is more than I expected for the price.
5|Much nicer than trying to lug that over-weight iPad around. I've broken the screen twice because it being too heavy. This suits me fine.
5|My wife traded my son for the 7". Solid tablet at a VERY reasonable cost. Samsung is still the de facto standard in android tablets.
5|I purchased this tablet on black friday and honestly never am away from it! This replased a galaxy pad 2 and the improvements are great!
5|very nice love it
5|Love this tablet!
5|Excelent product!
4|muy buen producto
5|nice tablet, good picture quality, a little slow keeping good picture with videos at times, but not bad. Great product for the price.
5|Meets all my needs, perfect for web Browns, streaming and mirroring to the TV using the chromecast... Like my Samsung s4 except bigger!
5|Came in on time before my daughters birthday. Tablet works well, had no cosmetic damage I could see. Very good purchase and experience.
5|It's my first own tablet and I love it. Tablet works great and very functional. I will buy more devices from this seller in the future.
5|Very good tablet for the price! Responds reasonably well to touch. Light weight, perfect size for my wife small hands, easy to operate!
5|Got this as a gift for my mother in law and she has had a hard time putting it down :) She loves it for all her work stuff and books :)
4|My grandson loves this little tablet. (He is 9 years old). It's easy to use, but we are currently having trouble getting it to charge.
5|This tab is amazing for the price, I was just gonna get an average reviewed $60 tablet but I'm glad I put in the extra money for this.
5|I love my tablet. It was an early Christmas present to myself. It is nice for my every day needs and more features than my old tablet.
5|Works as advertised and fit all my needs--I went with it based on Consumer Buying guide recommendation and have not been disappointd.
5|Put an otterbox on it. My child loves it. Good battery life. Takes a little while to charge. Great graphics. Good price point at $120
3|Slow tablet, do yourself a favor and get a Nexus 7 2013, same price, much better overall performance, sharper display, no comparison.
4|nice products but i recived with open wrapped?waste of money to wrap the gifts if it will become open so i need again to wrapp it !!
4|I upgraded from the S3 tablet to the S4... at 7", it is the perfect size and fits all my needs... highly recommend this tablet...
5|I'm lovin' it. This tablet is everything I thought it would be. It's a great tablet at a great price. I would recommend it to anyone.
5|Great tablet for the price. No complaints, just make sure you get a memory card when you buy it since it has little space otherwise.
5|I AM STILL LEARNING HOW TO USE EVERYTHING ON IT AND ABOUT IT. SIZE IS PERFECT TO CARRY IN MY PURSE, AND USE WHENEVER AND WHERE EVER.
3|it's ok, seems to drop WiFi a lot. sometimes a lot, sometime less often, but does it everyday. kinda wish I didn't buy it. oh well.
5|My sister has not gotten off her tablet in 2 weeks. Made me sell her iPad n bought a 132GB SD card for it. Guess she really loves it.
5|I am happy with Samsung products. I bought 2 of these as gifts. I'll probably buy two 10.1 inch models after the first of the year.
5|I ordered this for my young grandson for Christmas. It is the perfect size to fit his little hands. He can use it for years to come.
5|This is the best tablet at the $150 price range. It works flawlessly and is compatible with nearly all of the latest apps and games!
5|I purchased this for my wife so she wouldn't have to sit at the desktop, she seems to like it very well. (she has a Galaxy S5 phone)
5|I had it as a gift to my friend. She had it for a while and she always says that she is enjoying it whenever we have a conversation.
5|I gave this to my wife as a gift. It's her constant companion as she plays games, uses Facebook, and video chats with her daughter.
5|Great price for a great tablet.No problem with set up or transfers from other media.Fact is, this the third tablet I have purchased.
5|Absolutely love my white samsung galaxy tab 4. It's like my cell phone, but larger, so operating it for the first time was a breeze.
5|Very high quality. Its a Samsung. Nothing better. Perfect size for hand held. Beautiful screen. This is what you expect from Samsung
5|Other than wishing it came with directions for those of us who are not very tech savvy, I am delighted with my Samsung Galaxy Tab 4.
1|5 months in and it just suddenly will not turn on. After 5 months it just suddenly did not turn on. It was working fine Then just one day it decided not to turn on anymore. Tried doing button combinations and using different chargers and nothing worked. Ok so quality and durability I give it 1 star. Performance well it lags quite a bit with some games and the expandable memory only allows you to store photos and videos and part of some apps so don't go thinking you can get an as da red and install many apps because you can't you will end up having the tablet full with a few apps and the sad card almost empty. Again bad quality and stub Lar performance do not recommend. There are better tablets for this price range
5|Can't say enough good things about this tablet. Got also the iPad, the LG and all are very good but this one is by far my favorite.
1|Tablet stopped charging within hours of first use. Seller does not want to accept tablet so I am stuck with a non functional item.
5|An amazing purchase indeed. I got a rubber casing for it, sd card, and a travel case. I love this tablet. I'm so happy I bought it.
5|I have only had this product a couple day but I like it allot it smaller and thinner the the 2 but still has same size screen
5|My husband loves it, I was disappointed that I paid extra for 2day shipped and didn't get it for 5-6 days but the product was great
4|This is a basic tablet. It does what you expect from an 8 GB tablet but no more. No SD card limits what you can put on the tablet.
4|Pretty good tablet! It's a little slow but other than that it's great! I don't like the buttons at the bottom, they are too touchy
5|Bought this for my granddaughter on the recommendation of my grandson who got his last year. He loves it. She loves it. A win win.
5|Worked perfectly! New item shipped fast and safely! Item was latest software installed and updated right out of box pretty much!
4|Gave as a christmas/birthday gift and the recipient loves it. Slight learning curve over an Ipad but for the price it was a steal.
4|I like it and it does many of the things I want it to do. Obviously, it isn't the latest technology, but a good buy for the price.
5|My son has been playing with his tablet for days since he opened it. So far no complaints. It charged fast right out of the box.
4|I love this samsung tab, meet my expectation and my needs. Price are lower than my local Frys that amazing, thanks for the seller.
2|I would not recommend this tablet. I think Samsung typically makes quality products, but this tablet leaves much to be desired. The processor in this tablet is slow. I don't mean just a little slow. It takes 5 times longer to open apps on this tablet than on my 2 year old phone or even my 4 year old phone. I have had this tablet for 3 months and the longer I use it the more annoyed I get. I use this tablet for reading most of the time, but even the wait for books to open is becoming a nuisance. Pros: nice size for books, beautiful screen, good colors Cons: SLOW! Takes too long to load apps. Games run slow. Swipe keyboard assumes the most bizarre words instead of the most common. Camera is awful.
5|These are great tablets but dont have much storage space. I'd definitely recommend getting an sd card as well to have more space.
2|Didn't like this device, screen isn't really sharp as i would have liked and i personally didn't like the way it looked in person
5|This is a great product from Samsung. Good internet connection, and external keyboard and Blueray to battery speaker works also.
4|It is a good tablet and it does what it is expected to do. It is not as good as other tablets or phones, but it is a good choice.
5|This tablet functions very well, per its reputation. The price was great for a brand name device as well. We got ours for $150.
5|Great machine and does everything fast (with the boost memory) and even fits in my pocket so I can carry it just about anywhere.
4|Bought this as a gift for my daughter. It matches and works well with her Galaxy phone. Super fast delivery from Amazon. Thanks.
5|I love my tablet
5|Small enough to fit in my purse but not too big and bulky to carry around. Fast shipping and I am very happy with my purchase!
5|Great product, fulfilled my expectations as Samsung always do. Good quality and it was delivered as it is described at webpage.
5|Wish I had bought a bigger SD card but even with my measly 8 g card it holds everything I need for work plus some games!
4|Hi! I just received my tablet. I cannot dowload any app on play store, it says "194 error" can you help me to solve it?
5|Excellent tablet, very easy to set and run, fast speed conecting trough the local wifi service. fast deliver, good seller.
4|Second time purchasing a Samsung galaxy tab but this is for my 10 year old. Still testing it out but he is enjoying it so far.
3|The product matches description perfectly, however the tablet has limitations and the performance isn't so great after a while.
5|Bought it for the missus as a Christmas gift. She loves it though I think she has only scratched the potential of the machine.
5|Love my new tablet!!! It came on time, perfectly snug in its box. Not one problem and if I had the money I'd buy 10 of them :)
5|this was a gift for a friends' graduation, and she loved it! She raved about how easy it was to use, and the size was perfect.
5|Tablet came very quickly and in great condition. I couldn't even find one scratch on the whole thing. Runs programs perfectly.
5|great tab! I was surprised of how narrow it was compared to other 7 inch tabs and ipads but it works really well non the less
5|I bought this mainly to use to read books with and it is just the perfect size. And so much easier to use than my old Kindle.
4|I was debating on getting this because of the slow processor but overall it's manageable. Otherwise there weren't any issues.
5|Have samsung everything this is much better then the ipads I have gone thru. Added the 32 gb memory card and I'm good to go.
4|I bought two one works well and is great the other one only freezes so I sent it back to the seller and is awaiting a new one
5|This was a Christmas gift for my granddaughter and she loves it. uses it everyday to read books, play games and watch movies.
5|awesome tablet, small, well built does everything I want it to. well except use an active stylus and at $149????? incredible.
3|Its cool only downfall is you have a 8 gigbit but have is used for the bilt in software so you cant download a lot of apps
5|I can't wait to see my daughters face on Christmas morning when she opens this it is perfect for the apps she uses at school
5|I bought this tablet for my teenage daughter's birthday. She has still not put it down. Great for books and surfing the web.
5|This has been a real handy tool for me. I'm glad I purchased it and I'll probably buy another especially at this price point
5|I haven't had any problems with my tablet. It works well and came in original packaging. It's nice for a student on the go.
5|I bought for my 13 year old daughter and she's really impressed with it,in fact she loves this table more than a cellphone.
5|I am very happy with this purchased! It is really brighter than the nexus that broke down. I highly recommend this tablet!
2|Well. This thing was great for 2 months. Then, it just stopped charging. $150 down the drain. Cant return it. Just perfect.
5|Very light weight and connected to my phone using Bluetooth. I was able to watch Netflix one rainy day camping in the woods
5|Gifts for the family my mother in law and two twenty year olds. Easy to set up and use they love it and can't put them down
5|Great product ! I bought this for my Mother. It's very user friendly and she loves it. Battery life is also very good.
4|My first tab so I'm still exploring it's functions, but it's fun and I can ask any kid how things work...and they know. HA!
3|Does not have the sensor for watchon (the universal remote app) to work. I actually use that a lot on my phone and my tab3
5|I love it. It's like having my very own computer on hand when ever I need it and the size makes it so accessable to use.
4|good tablet, however Samsung need to do a better job for their camera resolution to HD for clearer and crispy pictures...
4|Since I'm not really a teckie, the little owner's guide made it necessary for me to go online and order a guide on E-bay.
5|Wow this is a great tool. It does just what I wanted and it charges so fast. way to go amazon and Samsung. no complaints.
4|Great little tablet if you only need to browse the internet and check email. I've had it since December. No complaints.
4|I like the tablet put disappointed that this package was suppose to have free nook stuff. I have not received anything.
5|Soooo user friendly my 65 year old mother is a wiz on it now! The screen is big enough without it being awkward to hold.
5|Bought Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 for my daughter for Christmas. I just know she is going to love it because I love play with it:)
5|As far as I can tell everything is working. This is a christmas gift so we will see! Delivery excellent and very speedy!
2|Unlike the Tab 3, which I also own, the Tab 4 has no magnetic sensor and thus no compass ability. Very disappointing. It does appear to have GPS functionality although you can no longer turn on/off the GPS and Wi-Fi locate independently from each other. I'm somewhat concerned with the ability to install apps onto the SD card. A new feature added is "smart stay" which senses your eye watching the screen and keeps the screen on accordingly. However I have been using the screen and it starts to fade out anyway when it doesn't determine the my eye. Overall, a useless feature. Overall, this was not worth the "upgrade" from a Tab 3.
5|So far so good, I love Samsung products. It was delivered timely and no issues so far! I will be ordering another soon!
5|Great tablet and the product was in perfect condition. My three year old loves it and can play with it without my help.
5|Same thing as the Samsung Galaxy Nook... Great product for reading, movies, and games, perfect travel size and weight.
5|its very snappy and i really like it. cosmetically perfect and internals run great no lag and very well taken care of.
5|You can't go wrong with this tablet. Very solid case, fast - no problems with any apps I've loaded or watching movies.
4|it was bigger than we thought which was nice. not enought direction to use device for my electronic non user husband.
5|I love my tablet! Exactly what I expected. Though I wish I had waited until I could afford the 10.1 inch
5|Excellent size, if you like samsung, this is the table you need. It have all the basics apps that I need, good desing.
5|Love this tablet! Very easy to use---especially if you have Samsung Galaxy phone and like android. Highly recommend.
1|Only works for a few days then screen goes black. Thanks seller for stealing my money and selling me a broken product
5|I love love love it but only 2 the camera is not clear and also the value is low that's my only thing I have with it
5|It's good just as expected from a Samsung product..Excellent..very happy with it so far..Sincerely, Michael R. Duarte
4|It's ok just don't have much use for it. One of the main reasons I bought it was to watch amazon prime which doesn't work on this device. Netflix does though.
5|this is an excellent tablet for checking email and downloading and using games and apps. No complaints at this time!
5|Got two of these tablets and I have to say they are a bargain. Awesome screen. Decent speed and really light weight.
5|I'm not really fond of gadgets as long as it has a big memory and good graphics, I'll buy it just like this product.
5|I use this a lot when I travel...also, my laptop broke...so this Tab really came in handy! Happy with this product!
5|Love it. My son uses it and all his kid friendly apps so he doesn't use my phone any buy shows on Youtube anymore :/
5|I never expected to find that it was just as new, and with the cover,it was fantastic,my mother in-law was estatic!!
5|Love it... or should I say the Wife loves it... I don't get to use it...LOL... her Christmas gift and she uses it...
5|Thoroughly enjoy this tablet! Plenty fast for me and a several hour battery life which holds up to games and movies.
4|Nice Tablet. Functional just as expected. The bad thing is about languages offered (no portuguese option available).
4|I've had it for about a month. I really enjoy it. I use it more than my laptop. From games to a reader it is great!
3|Bought two specifically so my boys could play Madden Mobile and it says it's not compatible. These are going back.
5|I bought my wife this model last year. Like it enough that I bought one this year. Very similar to the galaxy s4.
5|genuine product, cheapest price and fast and honest shipping. worth every penny spent. Totally fully satisfied
5|Excellent! New with great prices. In my country I'll expense double for it. Thank you amazon for this opportunity!
5|Love the kids mode! Perfect for my 5 year old! A tablet she can grow into. A great combination with the kids case!
5|This product is wonderful. I got it for my wife's birthday and she loves it. It was as described and came quickly!
4|nothing to say agains it.. works perfectly.. a little blue the srcreen but i read that is normal on galaxy devices
5|My husband's first tablet and he is enjoying it. We love all Samsung products and it came when it was supposed to.
5|Fast, reliable and solid. A far better buy than the I Pad mini in my opinion.
5|This is a great product for the price. I bought two of them for my children for Christmas. It was a great gift.
3|I bought this for my son. Unfortunately, limited apps and a troublesome kids mode forced me to return the tablet.
5|Perfect! Perfect for a small business owner for keeping in contact with customers and keeping track of orders. :)
5|This tablet is easy to use. I got if for my dad. He hasn't put it down since he has taken it out the package ! :)
5|Gift for my 10 year old 10 months ago - uses it every day for education and games. No battery or response issues.
5|Absolutely fantastic! Was a little worried on what exactly used- like new would actually mean but it's brand new!
3|dont like the samsung bloatware that you cannot delete....other than that its a decent tablet for the kids to use
1|Our first one stopped working after 8 months, the replacement lasted 12 months. For the price it isn't worth it.
5|Great little tablet for a younger child starting out into electronics. Or adult who wants something very portable
5|These are great little tablets. I have purchased several over the last few months for family and friends as well.
5|The tablet is very good, the only thing is wrong as with most Samsung product is the battery life is no too good.
5|What I wanted!
5|Son loves this
5|I gave this to my 10 year old grandson for his birthday he he hasn't put it down yet. Best gift I ever gave him
5|Very happy with thus tablet perfect size to fit in my bag and carry with me. Great price and vwry quick shipping
5|I got it as a gift and my husband loved it. Sometimes slow when loading a Marvel game, but a good buy after all.
4|This is inexpensive in comparison with any of the Apple products and I find it very useful size and weight wise
5|I bought this for my wife and she's never gone back to her Kindle. Great battery life. Very reliable machine.
3|Good product for the money, but not nearly as fluid as Apple in the way it functions. You get what you pay for.
5|Great tablet. Easy to set up and transfer files and data from my other devices. Love it. Very user friendly.
5|Very happy with my purchase of a Samsung Galaxy Tb 4 (4-inch White). It's really what I expected and more.
5|I love the size but for some reason I cannot get wifi on mine anybody know how to fix this problem please help
4|Nice product just need more storage or ability to move more things to sd card. Would purchase Samsung again.
4|I got this tablet for my stepdad and he loves it. He does wish the screen was larger but definitely enjoys it.
5|I am very pleased with the management and product. Thanks and congratulations continue well and getting better
5|Love this product. Its rootable also and it has no glitches. Just an all around reliable piece of technology.
4|Only complaint I have about this is that the sd card kept wanting to pop out. But all in all a great product.
5|I AM SO HAPPY WITH THIS TABLET ITS WORKS EXCELENT AND ITS HAS GOOD QUALITY EASY TO NAVIGATE IN IT I RECOMEND.
5|Just what I was expecting! Great quality and great price! The battery holds a charge for a long time as well.
1|I bought this item a few months ago and it died outta No where ! No Good I would not recommend this yo no one
4|Nice tab, but could not be connected via the HDMI adapter that was used for the S3 phone to connect it to TV.
5|I love what I buy in amazon but don't know why having problem replacing my iPhone 4 screen LCD cable to short
5|I received it in a good condition and I love it. I purchased this as a long over due birthday gift to myself.
4|Great clarity and screen resolution. Tons of games available, and I love the fact it's easy to travel with.
5|A Samsung fan here and I've been a Samsung Galaxy user for years now. Exactly what I expected! :) Thank you.
5|I really love my new tablet. Having a lot of enjoyment. Still learning how to navigate. Have a few problems.
5|Bought for my two year old to keep him off the ipad. Works great, took him no time at all to figure it out.
5|Excellent Tablet. I replaced my Nexus 7 with this one. Best move Ever! Quick, responsive, and pretty!
4|Returned it because it doesn't support the "mirroring" feature. Work fine for a non-apple product.
5|Yer. Great tablet, good price. Don't even mess around looking at cheap ones, just get this. You'll be glad.
4|It is a great tablet for the money, but it cannot compare to the stock android experience of a nexus device
4|I really love it and for me it is indispensable. I am enjoying it and happy that I chose this one. Thanks.
5|THIS IS MY LIFE!!! LOOVVVEE IT SOOO MUCH... Better than apple much faster and easier to use! I love samsung
5|This was a Birthday present for my Brother, and He is in Love with this Tablet!! And it was a great price$$
5|Bought this for my 11 yr old son for Christmas. What an awesome worth the money gift!! Samsung all the way.
4|Great tablet for my kids the only reason i did not give a 5 was because the camers qulaity is not very good
5|Love the light weight. Screen looks great. Used it to teach class with nearpod presentation the next day.
3|Did not specifically enjoy this product it lagged on many apps specifically facebook messenger, overall OK
5|Really good tablet. The speech recognition is impressive. Even if I don't speak clearly, it gets it right.
5|Delivered before specified date. My Samsung Galaxy Tab 2 finally died on me, decided on the 4. Love it!
5|one of the best from Samsung. this is really great to have if you want a budget tablet that responds well.
5|its perfect just like my note 4 . i got it for my 8yr old and of course i tested it. Definitely worth it
5|Awesome deal for the Father's Day Sale. I love this size. Fits perfectly in my purse to take everywhere.
4|I bought this as a gift to my daughter and she's loving it. Works for school as well as music and videos.
2|I bought this tablet online from amazon and it is only 5 months old and the headphone jack is not working
5|good all fine
5|Great tablet.
5|Everything ok
5|Samsung is always the best for me so this Tab 4. My son is using it everyday. good quality,it came fast.
4|Totally is good. But some app doesn't work like Watsapp. But has really good size for me and good price.
5|I had got this as a father's day gift for my dad and he loved it he uses it all the time and he loves it
5|Would buy again!!! We've purchased 5 of the Galaxy Tablets (some are the 8.4") terrific product line
1|Help needed tab won't connect to WiFi or Bluetooth .... ' Suggestions on how to fix this problem ?
5|People were very good and prompt. The tablet was not what I needed and they gave return with no problem.
5|Great product!!! I would buy this again. Do fast & very user friendly. My 4 yr old loves this & so do I.
5|Love it!!! Only negative is the 8gb memory, and not having camera flash. Other than that, great product.
4|GREAT FOR THE KIDS. WISH IT HAD A FLASH ON THE CAMERA, BUT OUR 5 AND 7 YR OLD KIDS DON'T SEEM TO MIND...
5|Cheap compared to apple product quadcore the speed, pretty and good in style. Many thanks and God bless
2|Not really a fan! Seems like it's slow and freezes up a lot :/ should have gotten an iPad in my opinion.
4|Love the tablet! It arrived sooner than expected and it is very easy to set it up. Love the galaxy tab 4
5|Bought this tablet as an early Christmas present for my mom &&' she loved it!! Shipping was very fast :)
2|If you like quality this is not it. The video is not good. I tried known hd videos... I tried known official videos that I have viewed on other tablets, laptops and computers. The video is low grade. I think a tablet is normally used for viewing right? So if the tablet has low quality because of a low quality video card then in this case I cant justify the cost that I paid for this tablet. I bought two at another store other than amazon. Big chain store. The 8gb ram with kitkat not allowing for various needs for storage is another animal in itself. The tablet looks nice even the box it comes in. If you are going to watch movies maybe it looks great but If I cant view a youtube video with quailty I dont want the device. I bought two and took them both back. I would suggest that you go into a store and try this product out before you buy it. It is unable to play many games out on the android market higher end games I should say. This is a high cost low budget tablet with a top of the line trademark label attached to it. These tablets probably outperform other low budget tablets. So if I were you I would search for any tablet that has tegra 3 or tegra 4 within the description of the tablet you are looking for. I would also look for 16gb or 32gb in that same description you will be happy with your tablet.
5|Love it! So glad I did not get Ipad mini instead. Takes great pics,videos, and movies look spectacular!
5|Still getting to know my new tablet, so far I like it. It is a lot like my Android phone so that helps
5|Really like the tablet, i use it more than my lap top i even bought one for my brother. great product.
5|The product arrived quickly and it was a perfect gift for my brother who loves it a lot. Great product
5|You cannot put the apps on the sd card and it only came with 8gb. We constantly have to deleted games.***UPDATE*** the tablet now allows you to move games to the sd card. It involves moving folders but it is now possible
5|My Wife loves it. I think I may have finally convinced her to leave Apple and join the Android family!
5|Great, fast tablet. I upgraded from the Tab 3 and it is just a little bit better. Crisp, clear screen.
1|I bought this for my wife so that she could transfer pictures directly from her cameras SD card to Facebook (via a external card reader). Unfortunately this latest version of the Samsung Galaxy Tab doesn't have OTG support (the ability to use USB devices), all of the older versions had this. So I will be returning this tablet and getting one that will do what she wants (almost all of the other tablets in this price range do). Why Samsung would remove a feature from a newer model is baffling to me aren't newer models supposed to be better?
3|I've had the Tab 4 for about 3 months and have a couple of complaints. First, although you can add an sd card for more memory, not all apps or their data can be moved to the sd card. 8GB get's eaten up fast. Second, I had hopes that Samsung would keep their active Android version somewhat close to the Google released version. Google just released Android 6.0 and the Tab 4 7.0 is still stuck at 4.4. I like the size but, unfortunately, the items listed above mean I will be going back to a Nexus 7 as soon as convenient.
5|Love it! Works as a Galaxy phone. It is like having a mini PC in your hand. Everyone should have one!
5|so far, no complaints. It is a gift for my daughter in August, so I won't know how it works til then.
5|I am sure you could find a better tablet in terms of speed and functionality but for $150 I am happy.
5|Pleased but would have liked it to come with a user's guide. Had to search the internet to find one.
5|Bought this for my daughter. Great features and size. Easy to Skype and watch movies while traveling.
5|I am using this tablet for just controlling the music in my house and it does everything as expected.
4|The tablet is great, nothing seems to be the problem and it's in good shape for a tablet that is used
5|Works great, no complaints. He no longer has to bug his sister to use hers. Quality Samsung product.
1|It was worst experience to buy used item from amazon. Worked only few months now need new battery.
5|got it for around 100 great price but never buy the 8gb model that's way too small 16 or better only
4|Works as promised, perfect for reading,browsing and watching movies (haven't try any games yet)
5|Got this for mother for Christmas so she see my son via Skype. She is really happy with the product.
5|Love it!! Makes check out at vendor shows much easier for me and my customers than my galaxy phone!!
5|Bought this to replace my tab 2, A great tablet at an affordable price Works as well as expected.
5|Excellent device. Good size Easy to handle. Good screen resolution. Perfect use for Kindle readers.
5|I bought this for my wife for a gift and she thinks it works excellently. Very fast and functional
4|Besides it freezing as all other electronics.... great buy!!!! Love the size coming from an iPad 2
4|I like the relatively small size like .. ^^ S-PEn Unfortunately, some features such as portability.
5|It's amazing. There is a lot to learn about what all it can do. It takes great pictures. I love it.
4|This is a great tablet. I love all the features. I do have a problem holding it without changing the page. There is a very small bevel on the sides. I guess you get more screen that way. The camera takes very grainy pictures no matter what mode you are in, also there is no flash. The audio is weak can barely hear it. Speaker is in the back. I like the SD slot which I promptly installed the 32 gb . It is a Wi fi only device. The router is upstairs and I still get signal in the backyard. The touch screen responds very well. The device is very light. I like the remote and TV Guide.
2|Tablet Battery died after 3 weeks of purchase it would not recharge. Replaced and now is good.....
3|Good bit after a month something is wrong with the charging sistema it takes forever to get to 60%
5|Excellent product, we are very happy, the shipping service was quick and smooth. Excellent Service
5|Got this for my niece for Christmas. She seems to like it, I have the same one and really enjoy it
5|Purchased this for my grandson. He loves it. So far easy to navigate. Very happy with purchase.
5|Exceeded my expectations for a tablet. Samsung products are amazing!!! Photo quality is very good!
4|Really nice for the price, definitely lowish end but you cant expect a gaming tablet for <200$
5|Nice Quality and Good Hardware, It's perfect and has a simple interface to use for inexperts users
5|Excellent condition. Love my tab 2 bought the tab 4 for my daughter so happy with the both of them
5|Excellent!!!
5|great tab
5|My girl needed one to put my ipad down it workes good with my samsung 75in tv better than my ipad
4|The tablet works really good but the charger broke shortly after, but great thing a had an extra.
5|Love this tablet, it's small enough to fit in my pocket but great for movies and everything else.
3|Can't shut off, but have to totally shut down. Then wait a long time to reboot when needed again.
5|absolutely cannot beat this tablet for the price...i have not put it down since receiving it...A+
5|My grandsons age 5 & 6 love them ,they received for Christmas they are fun as well as educational
5|Daughter - in - law was pleased. She said it was just the right size for reading and portability.
5|Very happy with this product though it did come loaded with a ton of apps you'll end up removing.
1|WiFi didn't work had to return the product
5|This Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 is amazing its really light I recommend you buy it for your loved ones
5|I had purchased this a few months ago. Still no problem and works perfect. No issues or concerns
4|Does everything I need it to do but is sometimes hard to turn on.has to push button 3 or 4 times
3|I was waiting to buy a black table, I made my purchase A BLACK TABLE yet reached me a white team
4|Nice product we got this for our 2year old son to take in our trip will use it mainly for movies
3|For the price its not bad but without the 6.0 marshmallow update the memory is just not enough.
5|Love this Tablet. I recommend this tablet if you like to use google. Android is a great market.
5|This thing has worked really well over the last 6 months!! Would buy another if this one broke
5|I bought 2, one for each of my kids. We've had them for a few weeks, and they are doing great!
5|I bought 2, one for each of my kids. We've had them for a few weeks, and they are doing great!
5|Good tablet. I don't get along with technology but can work this one with no problems
5|I just love it.. It runs fast, watching pics a videos is great.. I am super duper happy with it
5|I am still learning how to use this amazing tablet. Whatever I have mastered works seamlessly.
5|I have been using Samsung products for many years and this one definitely works supremely well.
1|Out of the box performance is atrocious with a lot of bloatware and services running in the background. Sammobile showed the Lollipop release as pending, still is months later. Some website (since updated) and the manual said it would do screen mirroring to use with my Samsung Allshare dongle, a closer read shows the manual is for more than this device should have been clearer. This tablet is still for sale locally and seems to have been an afterthought for Samsung. Look for another cheap tablet.
1|The Galaxy Tab 4 I received has a bad speaker. I can hear nothing even if I max the volume. I have to connect it to an earphone or external speakers to hear the sound. I did not have time to check it carefully before I brought it to China to give to my nephew as a gift. It's too late to send it back to Amazon. China Samsung store does not accept US warranty. Samsung disappointed me. About 10 years ago I bought a Samsung camcorder which was also bad. I quickly returned it to Best Buy. So be careful.
1|Just packed it up to return. I have purchased a NEW Samsung tablet every year they have come out. This one is horrible. Every time you even move the screen tilts. Oh I am positive there is a way to change the setting but REALLY Samsung..you put the HUGE user's manual in SPANISH and 5 tiny pages for English. WOW!! I guess I know now how I rate with Samsung products! Hard to hold/no smart case for the 7 inch..not ONE case that sleeps/wakes...everything about this tablet is inferior to the 2013 model.
5|Great tablet has way long battery life will fast charge love this tablet.last weeks on standby
5|Love it Love it Love it! Very happy with this device. I don't even know what else to say lol
5|I love this tablet it's great for keeping up with email when I am working away from my office.
5|The tablet is very awesome I suggested to everyone to order and I am going to order again soon
5|Awesome and cool per recipient grandchildren ! They very much like the devices..good quality .
5|This is the best computer i ever had and i had so e really big name brands before. Never again
5|my 2 year old loves it, very lightweight. bought a case for it here on amazon to avoid damage.
3|Screen wasnt snapped together. Shipping was fast. Affordable tablet in great condition though.
5|My daughter is very happy as expected with the tablet. Samsung still performs up to its name.
5|I love having a bigger version of my phone. This tablet is excellent and my whole family uses.
4|As some others have implied, this tablet is not the very definition of fabulous. It doesn't have the quality that my iPad does -- but that's OK. The Samsung is plenty fine for what I use it for: reading newspapers while riding the train home from work. Can't read it while taking the train TO work, however. It's way too early in the morning to be doing anything that engages the brain. The only reason I took off a star is that it's just a little too big and heavy for one-hand operation.
5|This thing is fast as compared to my Nexus V2 Tablet. Very happy with the product.
5|I have a Samsung Galaxy s5 phone and love it. I bought the Tab 4 7.0 and it is just as great.
4|I really like my new tablet. I think it is awesome. The only thing it needs is more memory.
4|Much lower sound quality from speakers than from galaxy tab 3....not sure what that's about.
5|Very nice tablet. Sleek and light weight. Great seller to work with. Super fast shipping.
5|Awesome fast and nice, My son has the Tab 3 and i got this for my daughter very nice Tablet.
5|I like it, works well, good screen sensitivity. Good screen size for better typing and view.
5|The table has been great. This product from Amazon is of high quality. Thank you! Billy
5|Christmas gift for one of my sons. It is what he asked for so I think he is pleased with it?
5|Great tablet. Came very quick in the mail. Can't wait to load music videos on for my Sis....
5|Excelent device, well handled and very good time between buying and reception of the device.
4|Yessssss, my girls loved it! They always have there tablet they never leave home without it!
4|I love the tablet, but the battery life isn't very good. I recommend this tablet for anyone.
5|WELL worth the money. Does not run high end games but that's to be expected given the price.
4|Very nice but I didn't realize it was a Wi-Fi only tablet. For the price you can't beat it.
5|Great tablet from samsung. I always tend to choose samsung above other products for my use.
5|The Tab 4 works wonderful, fast, and is everything you would expect from a Samsung product!
5|Absolutely perfect. Great HD and small enough to make it easy to hold for reading or gaming
4|Backlit keys don't work (backlight), those on either side of "home". Otherwise, ok.
5|I find the 7 inch Samsung Galaxy Tab is very useful and I love it ,and it was affordable .
4|I am enjoying it. I got to learn a lot but it is intuitive and should frighten compitetors.
5|Excellent value proposition, easy to read screen, does everything I need it to do and more.
5|Bought for a lovely child for bday just right size for her and for the price can't go wrong
5|I've given two of these as gifts this year and I'm very popular to say the least - they love them, say the display is beautiful and fast and lightweight and comfortable to hold. i have a Samsung Tab Pro 8.4 (fab resolution and leather backing) which I love although somewhat heavier than I would have liked (still love it) And while I'm at it, I will chime in about my Samsung galaxy S4 phone - it's amazing. Good lord I'm shilling for Samsung. I swear they aren't paying me!
4|it's ok but, so slow............and don't know how to download my pictures to to computer.
4|A little slow for gaming but perfect for my kids, the use it for YouTube and light gaming.
5|love my tab 4. It is light and easy to carry around. Love the power saving on this tablet
5|This is a great tablet. I got this for my husband for father's day and he really enjoys it
4|We just received it; it's a present for my wife. I'll know better when we get used to it.
5|Works well, wish it were a little bigger, not as much for screen size as for touch screen.
5|Bought for wife and she is loving it. She is still learning Droid but seems simple enough.
5|My son asked for this tablet for his birthday and after several months, he still loves it!
5|Works great and is very reasonably priced. I would definitely purchase this tablet again.
5|Thank you very much, excellent product, which was received on time and was what I expected
5|works great
5|Really good
5|Works great. Wish it was upgraded to at least Lollipop 5.1 but the wife and kids love it.
5|This is my second Galaxy Tab tablet. I love mine so much I bought another one for my mom.
5|Best of best my 6 yr old loves it, arrived really quick. Great great great I love samsung
5|Cheap, and does everything I need it too. Not the most powerful but can get the job done.
5|very nice to use this device,i bought it for listening music,which turns out pretty nice,
5|My wife doesn't like IOS but prefers android. So far so good. Better than the Kindle Fire
3|My 7 yr old granddaughter loves it...if it were for me the screen would be far too small.
5|Haven't got to use it yet but so far every thing looks good. Present for my dranddaughter
5|As described. Was hesitant about ordering online w/o seeing product but I am very happy.
5|everything I needed and has been a great device. Now have two of them. Definitely a buy.
5|This tablet is as described & arrived in a timely fashion. It is exactly what I wanted.
5|Love it!!! Works great battery last long and screen is perfect size couldnt ask for more
3|No vibro motor and no lit soft keys, also no MHL support so its mostly just for reading.
5|My kids love it thank u and ?for fast shipping before Christmas very appreciated ???
5|Best tablet for the money! I bought a tablet when they were first introduced, I loved my tab. The Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 puts my first gen tab to shame. The size is just right, the weight is very light and the screen is incredibly bright. Quick start up time, and enough memory that the tab doesn't get bogged down with a few apps open. There are more expensive tablets out there, but I don't think I'd even bother. This one is more than enough for anyone!
4|Great screen and overall device. Can be sluggish at times. For the money no complaints.
5|Love it! Just the right size, and takes great photos. My son loves to play games on it.
5|This product is a perfect fit in the hand. The price was right. Would highly recommend.
4|I do love my new tablet, however i don't like how slow it moves when selecting a option
5|I got this as a gift from my mom. I love it just wish it had enough space on it though.
3|Dead pixel on it the first day, rather annoying.. Nonetheless you get what you pay for.
5|Purchased for our pre-schooler. She loves it. No issues. This is our third Galaxy Tab.
5|Bought for my son and he uses it a lot Very Happy With this product , I have one too.
4|Love it! My first tablet. Glad I didn't buy a big one. This size is perfect for me.
5|I bought this for my 4 year old last christmas and its great even I use it at times...
5|It is a very efficient tablet, quick processor, and perfect screen resolution, love it
5|Alawys have been happy with my Samsung products. Just another to add to my collection.
4|I bought this as a Christmas gift for my sister and she loves it. The size is perfect
5|This is a great item looks great runs fast and I enjoy using it I would recommend it
5|Wish I had gotten this for myself. Love it for the time I used it. Good work Samsung.
5|Great overall entry level tablet. Worth the money, great size without it being HUGE.
5|My mom said she loves it. I got it for her birthday and now she uses it all the time.
5|Works great. Amazing longivity of the battery. Greate screen resolution and colors.
5|love it,axtually replaced my laptop with it because of the convienence,highly suggest
5|Item delivery On Time, Perfect gift for my mom!!! New, was awesome!!! Thanks!!!!
2|This device worked well for a while but it will lose wi-fi connection. if you can don't factory reset because you'll lose all of the apps and data on the device. I cannot find a way to fix this problem
5|Love everything about it...great choice and yes I will be ordering some mover tablets
5|Awesome little tab, my buddy has the bigger tab and i like the way this fits in my hand, Samsung is the best for tablets, I was a little against getting a tablet at fist because my phone can pretty much do the same thing, But when i get home after work my phone usually needs to be charged so gave in a bought one, was originally going to get an iPad mini but didn't like the fact that i could not add a memory card to the iPad. So easy choice.
5|Perfect transaction! Great prices, fast shipping and I love this tablet!! Thank you!
5|I got it before the time I was expecting it. My daughter is very happy with her tab.
5|its! What I Was Looking for, Mainly that its a Samsung! Thank! You! Very! Much!!!...
5|i have problems with the battery call to samsung and they fix it in less than a week
3|it's ok but It warms up and got to restart manytimes, even when not using the cover.
5|I liked it so much that I purchased another one. I may be getting at least one more.
5|Easier to write with my thumbs than my 10" tablet. Great product. Fast shipping.
3|I bought one last week, It runs pefectly, except it doesn't keep charge very well...
5|I love it! The tab is wonderful and the perfect size! the seller is very responsible
5|Great price had them sent to Australia and the boys love them and so far no problems
5|muy buen producto, llego en buen estado/nice product, it arrived in very good shape.
2|It's okay. Keeps turning off and changing it's date and time to 7:00 December 1999
3|One of the reasons I purchased this tablet was that I could increase storage with a micro sd card and now that function is hindered with 3rd party apps due to a kitkat update that allows only read only accees of the sd card. BIG DISAPPOINTMENT. Of course this change wasn't known at the time I purchased this tablet. I hope that will not remain the case in a future update or these 3rd party apps will be able to gain write access as well.
5|I bought two of them for my grandsons which are 8 and 9 ... and they just love them
5|Quality tablet, no need to spend extra on an apple product that isn't open-sourced.
5|The grands love having their own "computer" at Maw Maw's house. Works fine.
5|Its great. Can use and still have plenty of power remaining, Can sinc with my phone
5|Simply Amazing, a definite good buy if you're looking for a quality samsung tablet.
5|Does what I need it to! Its a nice size and comes in handy when it comes to college
5|Crisp picture and performance, everyone who owns a Samsung Galaxy Tab 4 knows this!
5|My husband loves this tablet!! Best christmas gift ever goes to this wife here.. :)
5|The package came a little dented but it was sealed and brand new so I am satisfied.
5|For the price of this tablet it is great.. works just like my big laptop, I love it
5|Wife loves her newest tablet. Reads books mostly. I know further uses are available
5|Works great, great response to a question and shipped on time. Can't ask for more.
5|I use this tablet every day is absolutely wonderful just wish you had more storage
4|Love the product and the seller. Would buy this product again. Highly recommend it
5|It is a great product and excellent quality. I recommend it 100% Luis M.
5|Purchased for my wife to replace her Nexus 7. she loves it. Faster than the Nexus.
5|I am very happy and it arrived I the time frame it said I was going to receive it.
4|Wish it had a stylus. Maybe once Lollipop is downloaded it will be more responsive
1|Couldn't be more disappointed with a product. I've had this Tablet for 6 weeks now and the only positives I can find are its weight and slim design. The Engine is extremely glitchy and most Applications crash constantly. The Speakers are atrocious and you will need an external Audio Source, just not Bluetooth because it will forget how to stay connected to both WIFI and Bluetooth. Do yourself a favor and buy a Kindle or iPad.
5|execelente
5|Very nice!
5|I like it.
5|works well
4|Wonderfull
5|Got this as a gift for someone, took a time to adjust from ipad, but now love it.
5|Samsung products are really awesome great design and excellent features as well .
5|Love my new white 7 inch Samsung Galaxy Tab 4. Arrived quickly and as described.
5|It was a present and the person is very soon indeed with it! No problems reported
5|Samsung is #1 in our home. their tablets it great and I like android much better
5|its awesome but you have too buy a good case because is fragile, i'm from Ecuador
4|Did everything I expected and did it well. Very good for watching streaming video
1|disappointed sent tablet white,I chose black colored
1|Ordered this in December as a Christmas for my 8 year old son. It is now the first of February and the tablet will turn on but the the screen is is nothing but colorful horizontal lines. It has been in a case the entire time and he has only used it a handful of times. My daughter received one as a gift as well, and within a month it started to freeze. They had HP tablets prior to this one and they lasted almost 2 years.
2|This tablet is a disappointment. It looks and feels nice but it is seriously under powered and left me seriously underwhelmed. It loses internet connectivity even though WiFi is connected and the router is just around the corner. When updating apps the device becomes unresponsive, lags, the screen shuts off and won't respond to the power button, and generally becomes unusable. Comes with tons of Samsung bloatware.
5|Awesome to deal with! Great product Great Deal. Dealt with any concerns quickly!
5|THANK YOU ! Just as I pictured it. Delivery was prompt - service was efficient.
5|Came in quick, I set it up for my mother, and she has been loving it ever since.
5|Just one gripe though - you have to unmount your SDCard to install certain apps.
5|My kids love, love, love it!!!!! I bought all of them one. (I have ten kids lol)
5|Good quality excellent graphics great pictures overall I really like the tablet.
5|2nd Samsung Android powered device. Very easy to use and holds well in the hand.
5|Very good tablet battery life is great it's perfect for everything i use it for.
5|It can do so much more than i realized. Very dependable and holds a good charge.
5|Bought it for my wife as she starts a new business...works great. She loves it!
3|Great platform for Netflix, email, light browsing, youtube-- but not much else.
4|very easy to set-up and use; although in bright sunlight hard to see the screen
5|So far so good? I've had it since early January and absolutely no problems
5|the size is perfect and the speed is fast. highly recommended for other buyers.
5|Perfect for my 11 year old girl. She loves this item. Would def purchase again.
5|a good tablet for its price. very creative design and has a lot of potential.
5|Best option for my daugther...she use it to watch youtube videos and play.....
5|Samsung is the best! Period! Says my son who received this as a bday present..
5|The 4G works great. Very good display. Functions as advertised. Nicely simple.
5|Loved the price and it came a day early...anything was perfectly fine with it.
5|EXCELLENT PRODUCT ARRIVED IN THE ESTIMATED TIME AND WELL PACKED SO I RECOMMEND
5|I love this tablet, would recommend it for anyone and any age, it does so much
5|Perfect for my teenage daughter and the quality is what I expect from Samsung.
5|GREAT great product overall it hi-quality and lightning fast somewhat durable
5|Wonderful. I bought it to my son for his birthday and he is so happy with it and everyday use it for all the things that he want. You know something? He sleep with it because he put music to sleep well and then i have to remove it from the bed. Its a wonderful product. I don't know so much things about technology but he knows how to call with it and put music and other things that it can do. Thank you.
5|This was a gift from my parents, it's very user friendly. I just love my tab.
5|Perfect for my daughter to play games or watch her favorite shows in the car!
4|This was purchased for a gift. The recipient still getting use to the Galaxy.
5|Perfect size for my 5 year old. She loves it and Samsung is really the best.
5|Came on time. Perfectly packed. Brilliant to give some one as gift.
5|So far so good, love Android system, used to it, very simple and easy to use.
5|The tablet was delivered prior to the promised delivery date. It works great
5|I love, is excellent works great besides being practical and discreet by size
4|For our granddaughter and she loves it. Now just waiting on cover we ordered
4|My son was very happy to get this tablet for Christmas. It is a great tablet.
2|I must have gotten a dud, the Bluetooth connection was not good. Returned...
3|The only thing I'm not studied with is that there is no flash for the camera
5|I love the feel of the back and it's loaded with kool apps. Great price too.
5|works great for what I use it for. Easy to use and has a good battery life.
5|Feels like a smartphone but without the phone capabilities. Works very well.
5|Excellent tablet. Great for the internet & gaming. Easy to use and navigate.
5|The best tablet ever, absolutely no problems with it. Works just wonderfully
5|What can I say, it was exactly what I wanted! Shipping time was unbeatable.
5|Excellent, love it. Fast, responsive, dependable. Great screen resolution.
5|I love, love this tablet!!!!!! It does everything I want and then some.....
5|Delighted with this tablet and great value for the price. I give it 5 stars.
5|The best thing it good play games just about thing to do price is ok 147.00
5|Really nice addition to my kindle fire. Works really well for what I need.
4|I did not give it 5 stars because it is a little heavy, otherwise excellent
4|Works well. I just need to get a SD card for it to have more memory space.
5|I really like it! great price and product, not heavy at all and really fast
3|Speedy delivery, great price! It doesn't always move the way you swipe it.
5|perfict it shipped fast and it just is awesome it works fine and its great
5|It's a Samsung, enough said. Excellent product, arrived timely. Love it.
1|Got a free galaxy tab 4 with purchase of a galaxy note 5. Well, you get what you pay for. Chrome browser extremely slow, and news.google.com page comes up blank. Tried Firefox instead, but it was equally slow. Googled around for solutions, but in the end it was just too painful. A user shouldn't have to work this hard to enjoy a new tablet. Taking it back tomorrow and paying for an iPad.
1|it wrecked my kids christmas...he believes that santa claus is a fat old man that drops defective tablets down the chimney. This tablet digitizer quit working after less then a week i sent it in waited 30 days for it to be fixed under warranty and got it back. after 3 weeks it stopped working again. i have literally spent hours on hold with samsung and they still haven't helped me.
4|Slows down often, otherwise nothing to complain. Good value for the price.
5|I use this tablet for everything, more than i use my phone. love love love
5|Fantastic device, easy to hold, works great for square payments on the go.
5|Best purchase of 2015! I can't imagine life without this little guy! Haha.
5|Great as of now got it as expected.. I'll update if anything in the future
3|This item is a little over 4 months old and will not charge at all now????
5|Had to return this product as I needed one AT&T ready. Service excellent.
5|Love it, small and ideal for using at uni. I use it more than my laptop :)
5|Love it! No issues with this at this time (only have had it for a month).
5|Great product. Bought this as a gift for my Grandmother and she loves it.
5|Not super fancy, but the perfect go between for my lapttop and smartphone.
4|Love it, this was out of the box, up and running in less than ten minutes.
5|The Tab 4 is an outstanding tablet and a great value. Highly recommended.
5|Good product! Good price! Good size! better than any other tab or ipad. :D
5|This tablet is suitable for my daily use. I like the size and ease of use.
5|This was a gift for my daughter, and she said it is really good. Thank you
5|Thank you i LOVE it,great deal and fast shipping(: Couldnt be happier
5|Item came as described excellent condition and complete with all features.
4|It great!
5|Excellent
5|excelente
5|Excellent
5|very nice
5|excelente
5|excelente
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Very good
5|Perfect!!
5|Its great
5|Great tablet! I love the quality of the display. I love Samsung products!
5|I like it real well. Small enough but enough for me needs. Very portable.
5|This is good even with the 7 inch screen. Its quick and totally worth it.
5|Just what I've come to expect in terms of quality. A brand you can trust.
5|Love this tablet. I watch movies and play games on it. Very happy with it
5|Nice tablet, enough memory for most apps, crisp display, cost effective .
5|Great product, works great!if you like android you will like this tablet.
5|The picture quality is great! Love the size and the battery life is long.
4|Happy! Happy! Satisfied with the service the prices and the Merchandise!
4|Bought for my mom, she likes. Nice bright colors, lots of functionality.
5|Performs better then expected. does everything i need it to and much more
5|it was exactly as described, was deliveried as stated, and work perfectly
5|I LOVE THIS TABLET! Great price also! No complaints here. Came on time!
5|My kid loves this. Easy to learn and manage, does what it says it does.
5|Bought it for my wife last year...she uses it all the time and loves it.
5|I love the performance of this tablet, it really has that great quality!
5|My daughter loves it but definitely needs a two layer case to protect it
5|Bought it for me and I gave it to my husband because he loved it so much
4|Seems to be holding up well. Nice and solid for an econo priced tablet.
5|Samsung has always put out a very nice product and this is no exception.
5|Great product. Perfect for 5 year old. Yes, I finally get my phone back!
3|I thought it was like my phone.....but it's very slow. Volume is great.
5|7 year old loves this tablet, way better than the other in price range
5|It was exactly what I was needing and for a great price. Can't beat it.
4|Had it since Christmas. Cant really complain works as it is suppose to.
5|Item exactly as described, it turned on just fine right out of the box.
4|I don't have it anymore I gave it to my brother . He says he loves it .
4|Fantastic little tablet, for the price I guess you can't asks for much.
5|I got it for me but my two year have it more then I do. He have a nabi.
5|First one worked so well I ordered another one for an alternate purpose
4|Fast and the perfect size..Games run smoothly.Happy I bought this one..
5|Wonderful tablet. Bought it for my daughter, and my wife wants one now.
5|Daughter received package before Christmas. Its all good. She loves it.
5|I loved it is perfect, it came on time, no scratch, and work perfectly
5|No issues..has had for serveral months and this items works just fine.
3|Not enough memory. Should have paid more attentions to the specs.
5|Great size and not heavy. Great for reading and viewing the Internet.
5|What can I say.......The device is worth the money. Its a work of art!
5|works good . bought it for Christmas for my daughter and she loves it.
4|This is a nice, fast little tablet. My only complaint is some of the features that Samsung installed (and you can't remove without rooting the device). The feature that bugs me the most is the Samsung sidebar that pops up on the right side of the screen. Once it popped up in the middle of a game and it was at that point I decided to Google a way to disable it!
5|Nephew loves it so far. I'm always having to tell him to put it down.
5|Great product,zero lag, came with 8gb SD card, tougher than expected.
5|Bought this tab with the suggested case and i dont regret. Works fine
5|Everything was just as described and it arrived promptly. Five stars!
5|Great Tablet for the money. Bought a refurbished unit like brand new.
5|I love this tablet, does everything I need it to and its easy to use.
5|Best tablet in the market, it was a gift for my gf and now i want one
5|Made a great gift. Completely in love with it. No complaints at all.
4|after a month works perfect, and the tablet has good screen and speed
5|I really love it, wish I have purchase the 10-inch now. Love it!!!!!!
5|Nice little tablet. Perfect for a purse. I also have a larger tablet.
5|The item arrived as promised. Need more time to see if it will do ok.
5|I love this tablet but I had to get one with the modem in for sprint.
4|I am enjoying this tablet. my first Samsung product and i love it (y)
5|Love it !!! This is my first tablet and it is very user friendly !!!
2|Great tablet that runs smoothly but what Samsung doesn't tell you is that it won't support OTG USB devices. You can't plug in a keyboard, mouse, flash drive, arduino, or any usb device. Had my hopes up and now I'm really upset with this device. My parents won this at a company party and gave it to me for my birthday so there is no hope for returning...
5|Bought one for my daughter and then one for my wife. They are great!
4|very light pretty cool looking only thing it takes a while to charge
5|My son loves this tablet, he is 12 and does everything it claims to.
4|There so much to do I'm still learning but I think it great so far
5|Excellent! Bought it for a little girl to play games & she loves it.
1|Constantly scanning and throwing me offline! Sending it back!
5|New article, with case, 100% functional and recommended, no problem.
5|Money well-spent. Perfect and easy to set up/use. No issues with it.
5|great product for the price. in many ways it is superior to the iPad
4|This is a decent tablet, some nice features but not a lot of memory.
1|Screen looks ugly with horizontal lines!!! Can Amazon replace it????
5|100% recommended seller width of Latin America and very good product
5|Excellent tablet! Really amazing and very very portable and usefull.
5|Great product! I love Samsung phones and tablets. Great price too.
5|A Christmas present for my 15 year old grandson. He really liked it.
5|Best tablet hands down! Picture is great, and very easy to navigate!
5|fast shipping, great quality, very easy to use and at a great price.
4|like this product. still learning about this product. very satisfied
5|I love the tablet a lot. I don't know how I loved without it before.
5|This tablet does everything very well. I use it for some games, ebooks, streaming videos, web browsing, music, internet radio etc. I really like using the split screen with two apps opened at the same time. The Galaxy Tab 4 7" has nice resolution at 1280x800 and was very pleased with the display. I had a Google Nexus 7 and on paper had better specs, however in real world use it was very hard to distinguish the speed with which the Galaxy executes its tasks. It is a plastic build and feels well built. I did not find it creaky or flimsy. I think it is a great deal at $180.00. I added a 32gb micro sd card and have 40 mb total memory. I also find the Touchwiz interface very user friendly. This tablet does not have the fastest processor (although it is a Quadcore) or highest resolution, or a metal chassis, but for someone who does not mind plastic & is not a pixel peeper & doesn't need a 2.4mhz processor this tablet does a great job in "real time everyday usage" & you really won't find it lacking in performance.
5|Is very very excelent, is small, practic, beatiful. I recomended to my friends and family, besides is not expensive. Thank so much.
5|Great tablet for both staying organized and informed as well as having fun. Battery life is great and recharge time is minimal. Light to hold especially if you are playing a good game. Colors and clarity are very good. Would highly recommend this tablet.
5|I like this tablet it is faster then the one I had the tab 2. And I like that I can have more than one window open . Great tablet.
5|I like the speed. I had an issue watching videos but adobe air and a flash browser solved that issue.. I purchased one for my ex-mother-in-law. It was a bargain and just large enough.
5|Great tablet to get for anyone! My sister in law loved it and never puts it down! 100% the best hands down!
5|TERRIFIC!!! Our first tablet and we couldn't be more pleased with it. Purchased for my husband who doesn't do a lot of WORD or EXCEL documents, and just wanted something to surf the internet, email, take photos and videos etc. What a little power house this is! And you can print from it, it has a crystal clear display and is very fast. LOVE IT!
4|I am an iPhone user, but I didn't want to pay the ridiculous price for an iPad with virtually no memory. So, I tried this. I can not think of a single time I used it that I didn't want to punch it in the face. However, it did look and feel nice and my mother loves it so much she got rid of her desktop. So.... Maybe it's nice for an android user?
1|I bought 2 of these last year for my kids as Christmas gifts. Not even a year later and neither of them will charge. I thought it was the battery in my sons tablet, changed it out but it still won't charge. A week later, my daughters tablet is now not charging. Waste of money. These have been in in thick protective cases with screen protectors.
1|I bought this specifically to be able to use the external sd card for data storage. It is basically unavailable. You can move a few applications to the sd card but they don't store data there. Might be Samsung, might be android, but both treat the sd card as a foreign country. No music access, no maps, next time will buy a different brand.
5|Easy to set up. Good product. Not as fast and detailed as an iPad.
5|Has the older version and updated to this one. Works like expected.
4|Love it for a basic tablet for those who like the Android platform.
5|I wanted a small tablet for traveling. This fits the need. Love it!
5|addictive. I use it for everything. easy to set up and use. love it
4|Purchased for my grandson as a Christmas present. Almost can't keep him off it. It's a great tool for his learning, with minimal disabilities he has. It's also great entertaining where he can easily hold onto it and use it with learning games, watching cartoons, etc. A little pricey, but worth it to see how much enjoyment he receives from it.
5|yes good
5|excelent
5|POSITIVE
5|Gift for my hubby who did not want one...period. He now loves it!
5|Very fast shipping, works wonderful for me. Highly recommended A+
5|Love it & perfect size , very happy with service and came on time.
3|really slow, lag-y wifi- much slower than my Tab 3. I returned it.
5|My daughter lives it! No matter where I am, I can skype her now...
5|All the Samsung products are the best quality. Love the tablet too
5|Love it! I hate that it doesn't have a flash on the back or front.
5|Great Deal for a Great Tablet!!! My 8 year old is in tech heaven.
5|My Mother loves it so much! She uses it all the time now! Thanks!
3|The sound on it was not as great as expected compared to my tab 3
5|100% recommended excellent product delivery to the specified date
5|Love it. Refurbished. No scratches. Works like brand new device.
5|my mother in law absolutely love this but it has no sim card slot
5|I love this little tablet its a perfect size that fits your hands
5|Awesome tablet! Very crisp and clear.. Totally recommend to get..
5|I love it. Works great. I would definitely recommend this tablet.
5|This was sent back, because it wasn't what I was trying to order.
5|Got here right on time. My wife is so happy with it and loves it!
5|My daughter loves this tablet. This is the perfect size for her.
5|Great tablet at a great price for what I needed! Thanks so much!!
5|It is amazing! Can't wait to present it to my wife for Christmas.
5|Works very well - snappy - I see no sluggishness on anything yet.
5|Works as expected. Have only had a couple weeks. So far, so good!
5|Way better than Tab A, the 7 inch size is the best one for kids.
5|Great performance, clear picture, good sound, good battery life.
5|I love my tablet, very easy to navigate, pictures are good also.
5|Great starter tablet for my 2 1/2 yo who is used to mommy's ipad
5|Legit, everything worked, I will purchase from this seller again
5|Bought as a gift and my son is on it all the time. Very durable!
5|If you are a android fan, well you will love it. Good batt. Life
5|I bought it for my husband for Christmas. he really likes it!!!!
5|very happy with this item and the service receiving it was great
4|I like this Tablet, but the camera takes poor quality pictures!!
4|Great Product ! Had it for 9 months now and still works great !
5|Works great...I use it for security business . Making reports .
5|Gift for my mother. She loves it. Takes it everywhere with her.
4|Not much internal storage. not all apps can be moved to SD card
4|Picture quality is not great, but great functionality otherwise
5|This is a great tablet at a very nice price. Thank you Amazon!
5|It works great love it,,,fast easy simple and a fantastic price
5|love this tablet, it is so easy to use and the picture is great
5|My son loves this! Processor is fast,battery life is excellent!
5|I love my tablet thanks amazon, oh and I love the price. ..!!!
4|Thought it would have come with a sleeve at least to put it in.
5|Very good device. I got it on Cyber Monday deal! Like it a lot.
5|Delivered within three days, awesome product. Would buy again.
5|in love with it!! I own a Galaxy Phone..so no problem to use it
5|love it. knew I would though, since I love my Galaxy S5 phone..
5|It's a very good tablet. It's fast. I can access my tv with it.
4|Esta como nueva. Lo malo es que no esta en su empaque original.
5|Love it! An upgrade from our Tab 2. More sleek, more features.
4|Perfect portable device to keep me connected while on the move
5|This was a great purchase for my mom. She absolutely loves it!
5|Love it.it's like a bigger version of my samsung galaxy phone
5|my wife loves it works just like her galaxy just more powerful
5|It has been delivered in a good condition and works very well.
5|I like the small size and the light weight for reading in bed.
4|new type of gadget for me. My wife uses it and is quite happy
5|The product was amazing. And it came in earlier than expected.
5|Good for the price good quality the charger to slow to charge
5|I love it. easy to carry , use. Very comfortable and practical
5|It's slightly smaller than the Galaxy Tab 2, 7". The border around the sides is slimmer. The screen resolution is better. It surfs the net faster. I like the micro SD car slot, although I haven't plugged in my SD card yet. Get the BobJgear case for it. It makes it -SO MUCH- easier to hold.
5|I bought this 2 month ago at best buy for my early Christmas gift. It's not that bad for my first tablet. This tablet is like my portable TV in bed. I also take to work so I watch my TV shows during break and lunch. Easily, the best 200$ I have ever bought. Love browsing the Internet and streaming netflix on it.
4|The only bad thing low resolution for photos and has no flash
5|Not to small not to big very light weight great image love it
5|A must have product, Bought as a gift....now I want 1????
5|What a great tablet for the money. It is fast and responsive.
5|Got it at a wonderful price. Great buy considering the price.
3|Won't hold a charge anymore and charges slower than molasses.
5|Just the right size, light-weight and does what I want it to.
5|Thank you for the item, my dad loves it and uses it everyday.
3|i think it could be less heavy and faster, the overall is ok.
5|It's a Samsung what can I say. Great tablet for my 16 yr old.
5|A wonderful tablet, it works perfectly and is so easy to use.
5|very happy with item , no problems at all , very fast shipper
5|Just perfect completely no problem's 5 star's on this tablet
5|My lady and I love it. It works good. We use it all the time.
5|My daughter loves her tablet, she goes no where without it...
5|What a great Tablet for an amazing Price. I love it. Thanks
5|my son's best friend. just the right size for a 7-8 year old
5|I'm happy and satisfied with my purchase. thank you very much
5|I like this. I can't really tell you why, but I like it.. :)
5|Works great shipped on time package well thank you very much
5|I got this tablet for my parents and the absolutely love it.
4|They work great but one tablet is louder then the other one.
3|Overall this is a great tablet for playing all my app games.
4|Its just perfect, i love it. Just be careful not to drop it.
5|i was great my grandson loved it and works lovly ty...amazon
5|Love it . works great. Does everthing I thought it would do.
5|Love, love, love!! Great Tab and you can't beat the price!!
5|Great product from Samsung, and quality Shipping from Amazon
5|nice tablet, I use is for games and streaming not much more.
5|Received item looking new and it's working great thus far :)
5|It was smaller than I expected, and the colors are bright...
5|Thank for givinand allow me to be able to buy it for my wife
5|Shipped as promised. Very good price. Whole family loves it.
4|It serves its purpose, But I like the Amazon Fire HD better.
5|Great tablet. I switched from apple and couldn't be happier!
5|This tablet does everything that I want it to. I have an I-Pad, but find it a little bulky at times. This tablet fits nicely into my purse or a large pocket and is easy to read off of, play games with, etc. I ordered the 32 Gb micro SD card for it today. I would purchase it again without question.
1|This is unbelievable. I bought this device to perform ONLY as a music player to my drums via the SD card and YouTube. Today, less than 2 months after using it, WiFi and Bluetooth simply stopped working! Trying to swith either of them on seems that they are "trying" and then shutting down. Looking at all forums and posts, i tried everything. Downgrading to other firmwares, using other KitKat versions- NOTHING WORKS. This is outrageous. The tab was placed on a mounting device from day 1. No falls, hits or any type of damage one can think of. SImply decided to kill its own wifi and bluetooth without anything happening to it!!! And now i cannot even replace it! what can i do?? i guess that other than swear not to purchase anything from Samsung ever again + not buying electronics from Amazon and posting this and warn others- other than that - i can do nothing :-(!!!!
1|Do not buy this tablet. I bought three tablets for my family less than a year ago. I already had issues with two of the tablets where they don't charge. I created a service request with Samsung and they cancelled the request with no reason stated. There is no way to reach a representative about this.
4|Getting slow when starting and at times. I am using 32 GB San Disk Ultra card along with this tablet. Features are okay for the price. Resolution quality is not good as expected, while using facebook and other social networking sites. Good for playing games and watching HD videos.
5|Have had it about a month now, and it is working very well.
4|Bought as a gift but I charged it up and it loaded right up
5|An excellent screen protector, no bubbles, easy to install.
5|Galaxy Tab 4 is working well, looks good and is fun to run.
4|pleased with my order got it a day earlier than expected ;)
5|Bought for daughter loves it and love the kids mode feature
5|So far I am enjoying it. Still have a lot to learn about it
4|Good tablet, but must have a led flash for the back camera.
5|Very nice design and good performance, nothing to complain!
5|He loves it. Perfect size and Great screen. Fast delivery..
5|Nice little tablet, quick, easy and does what I need it for
5|Perfect
5|PERFECT
5|Daughter loves her tablet and I do not need to share mine.
4|Camera is not good. Otherwise everything looks good to me.
3|Poor quality front and back camera. Everything else is ok.
5|Love it. Its the perfect for me. plus very fast processor.
5|It looks awesome..... but i do not open the device yet...
5|Like new I'm very placed this pepa the expeesion a love it
4|It's good but they didn't sent warrenty card with it .. :(
5|PRICE WAS GREAT..FAST SHIPPING & GREAT GIFT!! EASY TO USE!
4|Works well, looks good. Don't know about durability though
5|Purchase as a gift. It's the second one I've purchased.
5|GREAT screen! Don't like the phones but love this tablet!
5|good shipping and covered to prevent damage to the product
5|Love it took a lil longer to get here but I'm very excited
5|Easy to use, especially since I have a Samsung cell phone.
5|My parents loved the gift and are enjoying their tables!!!
5|It was a gift for our grandson for Christmas! He loved it.
5|I bought for my daughter as a Christmas gift and loves it.
5|I'm very happy with that. Everyday it's very usuful to me.
5|Obviously it is excellent!!! Samsung is great!! Nice tab!!
5|Perfect for school and work, the size is great for my use!
2|The tablet keeps shutting off in the middle of a programs.
5|Like it, bought it as a gift for my sis and she loves it.
5|Does everything I need it to do in a nice compact tablet.
5|Love the tablet. Thin, lightweight, and easily portable.
5|Great product, and price, but it does have crappy camera.
5|All very good, responsible and punctual, I recommend 100%
5|Tab 4 Works Great i Will Be Buying Another One For A Gift
5|I love it. Nice and thin and meet all my expectations! !!
5|I love it and my son does too. It is good for the family.
5|This was a present for a family member and they love it .
4|Very good we used every time no problem with this product
5|arrived in perfect condition, everything in working order
5|Awesome battery life and is so fast i love this tablet :)
5|It's not as fast as I would like but I wouldn't trade it
5|It is an excellent tablet, It has been working very well
3|I am hoping that I'll get the hang of it soon, right now
5|Excellent product for the price. Delivery was very fast!
2|This tablet is extremely slow and frequently freezes up.
4|Great small tablet. Hard to find case to fit really good
5|Granddaughter thinks this is the BEST! and easy to use.
4|Great for the price it is. Yet, some apps work very slow
5|I used Tab 2 and tis new versión is confortable and fast
5|Love it .. And my family are satisfied in this product.
5|Nice tab I will probably prefer this for daily net thing
4|The headphone outlet needs to be on the bottom of tablet
5|This was a gift for my mother & she absolutely loved it!
5|great gadget, i use to read, and social networks purpose
5|It arrived on time and they make excellent Xmas presents
5|great great great my wife loves it and so do i great buy
5|Samsung always makes a great product. My son loves it.
3|Camera is not whay I expected, pictures are not clear.
5|Bought for my son. He loves it and uses it all the time
5|Wonderful table we are enjoying a lot this tablet
5|Love the tablet and it was delivered in a timely manner
5|Love this thing. Perfect size, built well, great price.
2|the wifi will no longer enable and i cant up date it !!
5|Great tablet! Bought it for my daughter.. She loves it!
4|Great product and amazon did great job with the process
5|Great product at a great price and super fast shipping!
5|Our son has this. He got it for Christmas and loves it.
4|Takes a little getting used to but overall works well.
4|Tab works great. I just wish Samsung sent out updates.
5|It is everything I wanted. I am very pleased with it.
5|Great tablet - Love Samsung and goes great with my S5!
5|Great table!! especially for developers. Fast shipping
5|very good product my wife loved it takes good pictures
4|Love the convenient size. Fits perfectly in my purse.
4|Thought it had flash. But all in all. I love it!!!!!!!
5|This was a gift for my daughter. She loves her tablet!
5|My son loves this gift! Maybe too much. Great product.
5|amazing &wonderful, beautiful back my daughter love it
5|I bought this tablet for my daughter and she loves it.
5|This was a gift, fast shipping and worked as described
4|It was a gift and the recipient is very happy with it.
5|This was a christmas gift for my sister. She loves it.
4|It was ok, that camera and the sound is not that great
5|Best tablet. beautiful desing and quality product.. :)
5|love it is so easy to take to class than my big laptop
4|Sound, resolution, and performance is very good. However, I seem to lose my wifi connection periodically wven when in a strong signal location. Also found some play store apps that come up as not compatible with my tab even though they are specified as KitKat compatible (
4|being that I give it 4 stars it also has a high price
5|Best 7-inch tablet in the price range. No complaints.
3|Overall good tablet but Bluetooth is really weak
5|This is the best tablet I ever have ! Thanx, amazon !
5|GREAT BUY. RECCOMMEND IT FOR ANYONE WANTING A TABLET.
5|Love it... I received the tablet before I expected...
4|Good Value for a almost out of date tablet. 7/10
4|Fantastic tablet, very pleased with it. Awesome value
5|It's terrific. Just wished the battery lasted longer.
5|Great product! Actually bought one for my wife, also.
5|I am enjoying the Tab very much -- glad I ordered it.
5|swiss army knife of tablets very useful very pleased
5|Top of the line... my son and granddaughter loves it.
5|Mom's very happy with her Christmas present. Thanks.
5|My daughter received this for Christmas and loves it.
3|Nice tablet for kids but the functionality is limited
5|My son loves this device. Not too big or too small..
5|Quick shipping and are exactly what I was looking for
5|excellent product! thank you very much from Venezuela
5|Excellent, the products have met all my expectations.
1|This tablet is horrible, after just a couple of days my headphone jack suddenly stopped working just out of the blue. This is my first Samsung product and it will also be my last I hardly even used the thing and now its no good. Who knows what else will go wrong.
5|I love this tablet and use it more than my IPad now.
5|Product was as described. The speaker a little weak.
5|Love it had and at this point of time no complaints.
5|I love my Samsung Galaxy Tab. It's very easy to use!
5|Really good equipment. I'm happy with this purchase.
5|Like this tablet much better than tab 3. I have both
5|Easy to hold in my hands, sleek and elegant design.
5|This tab does the job of a big samsung galaxy fone.
5|i love this tablet, perfect size for work and play,
5|Using it now. Nice features and good battery life.
5|Thank you so much. The tablet is working perfectly.
5|Purchased for step daughter she says it was perfect
5|this product is very good! excellent satisfaction!!
5|purchase this table for my cousin and she loves it.
5|Great product, no doubt. Shipping was fast...thanks
5|Great tablet, WiFi only. Enjoy the little gadget...
5|Love this Tab 4. It's small enough to carry easily.
5|Who need iPod when u can have a Samsung galaxy. ...
3|i did not see much faster compared to my tab 3. it's thicker and heavier than i expected (later generation compared to previous generation). For surfing web and some simple tasks, it would not be bad. The battery doesn't last long, just for your info
5|Excellent as every Galaxy Tab.
2|It sucks. Display is blurry and response is slow.
5|This is 100000 times better then my last tablet!!!
5|The galaxy Tap 4 is excelent! Very cool for my son
5|The perfect tablet for travel I absolutely love it
5|Great product, Great price and excellent delivery.
5|Wife loves it.. Shes uses daily -all that matters
5|meets all expectations. my daughter likes it a lot
3|It works great and I love the detachable keyboard.
4|Smaller than I thought it would be, but I like it.
5|So far the best tablet I have ever had! I love it!
5|It's great . Has a long battery life . Awesome !
3|Device will not play out side my home otherwise ok
4|It's great, I love it. It's exactly what I needed.
5|GREAT. No problem and much cheaper then the store.
5|My daughter loved it. Great product from Samsung.
5|Excellent, very responsible seller! Great product!
5|Excellent tablet for the money. Very nice screen.
2|Very slow and locks up on some programs and videos
3|The device is very slow despite multiple upgrades.
5|Very Great tablet. My daughter loves it so much!!!
5|an excellent product. recommend that you purchase.
5|love it very cute fast shipping and i just love it
1|This was my second unit both had issues with charging, I missed the return date by a couple of days now I'm stuck with a unit that will not charge.
5|Product received on time and well worth the money
5|I will make it really quick and simple GET IT! ?
5|I love this tablet...the description was spot on.
5|Arrived in a timely manner, exactly as described.
5|Loved it got it way before it said it will arrive
5|LOVE It!!! Especially the new split screen choice
5|Well crafted and great picture quality and sound.
4|Takes a little to get used to. But overall great.
2|returned did not like the operation on the device
5|Awesome tablet with tons of storage. No problems!
5|Bought for my girls for Christmas, GREAT TABLETS.
5|Purchased for my wife. She loves the ease of use.
5|Fast delivery and very pleased with the products.
5|What did you expect from Samsung? Simply amazing.
5|It was what i expected and fast delivery as well.
5|It really was like new, incredible for the price.
5|Great mini pad! Bought one a few weeks back for my wife. Loved it so much, got one for myself! Great for times I don't want to carry my full sized pad! Most of the bells and whistles of my full sized Samsung. Great "on the go" pad!
5|Typing on it now and I love, love, love it! !!
5|Gave it as a gift to my cousin and she loved it.
5|I like it for the purpose that I am using it for
5|This item is awesome, nothing was wrong with it.
4|Love this product. My daughter is on it nonstop
5|Got this for my mother in law......she loves it.
5|It is an amazing little machine and I love it!!!
2|Slow processor. Slow WiFi. Too little storage.
5|Great product. .for Skype pictures. .email. .Etc
5|Excellent tablet, love it. Came in the next day!
5|It's great for my needs . Grand kids love it too
5|Came quick and looked great, works great. Thanks
5|I really enjoy this tab and it's easy to use....
5|Tablet works great and fast delivery.. thank you
5|Wonderful technology. I have no problem with it.
5|Great Tab for general use at a reasonable price.
5|This item is the boom. Live it. Highly recommend
5|Dandy little device. Easy to use, loads of apps.
5|Good seller I wAs very happy with this purchase
5|The Galaxy is the best Tab I have had. Love it!
5|It was gift for my mother's Birthday. And she really like Samsung Galaxy now. But a little bit not easy to use for the elderly. She asked me sometime how it work :) but any way she think it is a very funny for her. And good prise for me ;)
5|Samsung is knocking technology out the box. This tablet offers $300 worth of free content. It has 8GB of RAM and is compatible with Android devices and apps. It also comes at a great price, and can be used for a variety of Internet needs.
5|Greatest tablet I've ever had, highly recommend
5|Purchased this for the in-laws. They loved it.
5|Bought this for my son for school. Great tablet
5|I love!! my tablet works great and came on time
1|Wasn't what I was expecting. Below expectations
5|Really great !! Came before shipping time too!!
2|The battery was terrible it ran out really fast
5|I bought as a gift for a friend. She likes it.
5|Can't complain. Loving my tablet more each day.
5|Purchased for my niece for X-Mas, she loves it.
5|is very good, this product full my expectations
5|Awesome tab, received in good working condition
5|I love Samsung products, absolutely no problem
5|excellent product, excellent price, very happy
5|Brand new!!!! Just like it was shown! Love it!
4|Amazing product; unable to put this item down.
5|I love my tablet and my grandson loves it more
4|I love this little device it's easy to manage.
4|Best thing i every bought for my kids love it.
5|bought as a gift but recipents totally love it
5|Quick shipping everything there great price !
5|I'm using it now. No issues. Great buy.Thanks.
5|Samsung does it again...they never disappoint.
4|Perfect for music on the go, and crushing TV .
4|I enjoy learning what it can do! So amazing!
5|Love this tablet works well for my grand kids
5|Got it with zero to no complications. Thanks!
5|Love it.Works great .As described. Thank you.
5|Love the Samsung Tab 4! It fits in my purse!
5|I like it gets the job done that I want to do
5|I really very like it i am enjoying using it.
5|Excellent and suits my needs. Easy to set up.
5|ilo I LOVE IT,ITS A GREAT PRODUCT.
5|Very nice. Product and delivery as expected.
5|Love it! It is a great product. Love Samsung!
5|Love this tablet...i have no problems with it
4|The battery dies fast but it's good. 4.5 star
5|This item came without charger. I'm so upset!
5|Up until now,is perfect. Thank you. Excelent!
5|Actually a great tablet cheapest i could find
5|Great tablet!! I love KIDS MODE for my kids.
5|excelente producto ya tenemos 3 en la familia
1|its wasn't working!! it wast charging at all.. when i went to samsung to buy a new battery to make thing work, samsung told me ita a "FAKE" phone!! the seller should be banned from selling these fake phones.!!!
5|I brought this for my daughter she loves it.
5|excellent thanks I recommend it for all
5|Item was as described and it shipped quickly
5|Nice tablet for the price. My son loves it.
5|Exactly as described and expedited shipping!
5|Looks new, works great, and loved the price.
4|Excelent condition but the box is so fragile
5|Love it. Bought for my dad so hope he likes
5|Love it!!!!!!!! Will be buying another one..
4|Everything is good, but storage is too small
5|no problems, good product, would order again
5|Really nice. Arrived on time. Perfect price.
5|Nice tablet. Works fine has good resolution.
5|Really enjoying the tablet. So far so good.
5|loving it! Sleek, lightweight, user friendly
5|I gave it 5 stars what else is there to say.
4|really good, the only bad thing is the sound
5|came on time works really well wife loves it
2|Has issues keeping wi fi running also freezes up often not inpressed at all. If it would or could work as well as my Samsung rugby pro I would be happy but it doesn't. Not enough time or thought went into this Tab 4.
1|after 1 month of use the device stopped charging. it some times charge but most of the time not. after some research i found out that this is a known problem with this particular model. Its best to keep away from it
1|It has not "Screen Mirroring" function, very important to see on any TV, that is what I was looking for. Any HDMI Adapters or "Samsung WI-FI All-Share Cast Hub, Wireless HDMI Display Adapter " do not work at all.
5|Gave it to my gf as a gift and she loves it
5|My mother loves it, that's all that counts.
5|I bought this for my wife and she loves it.
5|This was a gift for my son and he loves it.
5|Works great, very happy with this purchase.
4|Great tablet but cameras need improvements.
5|My husband love it he used it all the time
5|Love it and it came quickly and works great
5|The Samsung tab 4 is very nice. I love it.
5|I love this new Samsung table. It is great!
1|Worst tablet I've ever owned. Lock screen widget for google music doesn't show up. Wifi disconnects constantly even though all my other devices work fine. Touchwiz is just plain ugly compared to stock android.
5|I purchased the Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab last week and would just like to share with you, this tablet is the greatest electrical device that I have ever owned! It’s easy to carry around and work, even stupid people could use it. One of the best things about this tablet is the amazing selfie ability, this thing has a great front camera that makes you want to take selfies all day long. The back camera and video taping is also quite excellent. I use this device on a daily bases and found that it is great for school because you can take notes, pull up the internet at anytime and I can take more selfies during my boring classes and make myself look smart. This device has incredible memory, I have room for all my favorite apps like, Instagram, Followers+, Follower Gaining, Instafollow, Followd, Follow mania, and Get Followers and still have extra space for all of my selfies! I love to read, and journal on my blog, “How To Get More Followers” on my free time, when I’m not busy selfieing. The writing is easy, I can push each letter at a time easily, on the Ipad, the keyboard letters are way too small for my big boned fingers. The reading is also great, you can adjust the brightness for whatever lighting or situation you are in, it is fabulous! Several people I know own Apple devices such as the Ipad, the Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab is way better. The Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab must be highly more intelligent and sophisticated than the Ipad, after all, it isn’t named after a piece of fruit. When I listen to music I tend to never wear headphones because I rock out too intensely, they just fall right out, but, with the Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab I can just flip the device over, crank up my tunes and rock out to T-Swizzle’s latest break-up song as loud as I want, absolutely clearly, it is just life changing! As for the battery, my Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab last for whole 5 hours, I only have to charge it 3 times a day and all night long when I am sleeping, you won’t find a better battery life device like that in this era! Of course I think you should purchase this awesome device sooner than later, the Samsung Galaxy 4 Tab is the best electrical device you will ever see!
2|I received this as a gift from my parents. Usually when I receive a gift I won't be too harsh. I got this because my Nexus 7 broke recently before that. And for a tablet that you would buy last minute, it's pretty fair. But I use this everyday and there is so much that bugs me about this device. First let's talk about the memory on this device. It is advertised as an 8GB device. However, you are running Android and Lollipop side by side so that takes up 4 of the 8 gigabites. Then there are a bunch of pre-installed apps. Now we only have roughly 2-3 gigabites. While this is a fair amount, if you use your tablet for work like me, you'll find yourself downloading apps for work and school and you barely have room for anything else. The camera is crap but that doesn't bother me because I have a real camera to take photos with. The touch screen is very odd; it can either be really sensitive that if a crumb were to land on it, it wouldn't notice to it's so insensitive it wouldn't notice you jam your thumb through the screen. The touch screen is one of my main issues. Let's say you have an app where you have to hold down your finger to do something. I'll use Minecraft as an example. In Minecraft you hold your thumb on the screen to remove dirt. Often times however, the touch screen doesn't let you hold it down and you can only tap. This seems to be a thing that occurs very often and can be very frustrating. TouchWiz is a very annoying program. Since it is run side by side with Android you get holes in TouchWiz and all of a sudden Android appears. I'm not saying that Android is a bad thing, I actually prefer it over TouchWiz, but the consistency is sooooo bad on TouchWiz. It has no idea what it wants to be. If everything was TouchWiz in this device I wouldn't be as mad. I just want consistency. The back of this tablet is very smooth. This might sound like a pro, but it is actually a con. With no grip on the back, the tablet feels very slippery too hold, which could lead to a cracked screen. So you're going to have to spend another 15 dollars on a case if you want to keep this hunk of junk, Which is pretty common today.
5|Super
5|My son love his tablet, I'm very satisfied
2|Tablet did not come with screen mirroring.
5|Came quicker then expected! Works great!!
5|Perfectly fits my needs, at a great price!
5|very prompt shipper. Product is as stated.
5|Was absolutely Legit. My husband loves it.
5|excelente product. is that i need. thanks.
5|Love the galaxy tab 4 use it all the time
5|I'm happy with my tablet, thanks everyone!
5|I love this tablet perfect for everything-
4|Everything I was looking for at the price.
5|Fast and responsive. My daughter loves it!
5|kids mode is awesome...my 3yr old loves it
5|this tablet is amazing i cant put it down.
5|Exactly what I wanted. Quick shipment too.
4|Great improvement over galaxy 2 I replaced
5|Very practicle, light wieght, and durable.
5|Excellent device. Arrived as expected, box with its factory seal. In the management team a unique experience of Samsung is observed and the size is enough for me. I'm happy and satisfied with the purchase.
1|No USB otg. This is a deal breaker for me. Returning mine tomorrow.
5|Great tablet for the $$$
3|Well.... This was a gift. It is my first tablet -- also, I don't own a smart phone, so I have very little experience with hand held devices. (and I'm OLD. How many strikes do I need against me?) As far as construction, the Tab-4-7" looks very well made. Camera is pretty low rez. which is probably ok for the web. But IMHO, the Android software SUCKS BIG TIME! I find navigation very difficult. Chrome is a so-so browser. Android is constantly trying to download software to the tablet.-- I have to shut if off to get it to stop. It seems to me, that Google's Android OS is merely a vehicle for Advertisements. The "free" stuff that comes with the Tablet requires you to give up credit card numbers plus lots of personal information before you can get "free books", "free TV", "free DropBox", etc, etc. Oh, and the kicker: I tried to download the Manual onto the Tablet and Samsung tells me that they don't have a manual in my language! (Well, ok, it doesn't speak valley-girl....What Ever!) I assume I'll be able to transfer music from my Mac, but haven't tried yet. It would be nice if one could Skype or FaceTime with this, but I don't know if that's possible. It's WiFi only. I've thought that having a Tablet (or smartphone) would be nice -- possibly a replacement for carrying around my laptop. But after getting this, I don't think so. In fact, I'm not sure what the point of one is, unless it's to provide Big Brother Corporation with all your personal data. On the Plus side; If I put up with the ads, I can play Angry Birds!
5|Daughter loves it - she can't put it down
5|Better than i expected. Worth every penny
5|Light, fast. easy to use. I just love it!
5|It'seems absolutely up to my expectations
5|good tablet mu my daughter is super happy
5|Just what I was expected! ! It' s great.
5|Very good tablet and excellent seller ...
5|my kids loved it!!! i bought 6 of this...
5|Super fast and light!!! My son loves it!!
5|Looks and works great, no complaints yet.
5|Bought it for my Dad. He really likes it.
5|Thank you. It arrive on time. Good device
5|A lot smaller than I thought it would be.
4|Nice tablet, for the price is good.thanks
5|Came early and was as awesome as expected
5|Bought it for my mother and she loves it.
5|Great buy great samsung product love it
5|Bought it for work it is a great product.
5|It's handy and reliable . Great purchase!
5|Nice tablet,can download videos and games
5|Item delivered on time, was as described.
4|easy to use and the video quality is good
5|Great product and great and fast service.
5|Just what we needed. Just as advertised.
5|The perfec tablet and tha perfect price!!
4|Much, much longer battery life than an HP
5|everything I wanted in a tablet and more,
5|Fast service and a great quality product
5|Thanks for the quick delivery! Love it!
4|........ great little android tablet ...
5|Excellent tablet for a reasonable price.
5|Everything about this order was perfect!
3|It keeps freezing up. It is frustrating.
2|Had a problem with the tab n returned it
5|Love this Samsung tablet. Only way to go
5|Received my order on time all went well.
5|It was great and it was deliver on time.
4|Works well and is exactly what I wanted.
5|Delivered on time! My daughter loves it.
5|Perfect tablet for my work... I love it!
5|Awesome!!! quick ship great experience!!
5|For price, it provides much more reward.
5|Loving this tablet, my son will be getting it for his 6th birthday. I have the Kid Mode and have added many apps to it for him. I wish they had angry birds for kid mode lol but he will be fine!
5|Pretty Awsome and I love my new tablet.
5|Lot of good features. Better than Tab 2
2|Tab turns off and on every five minutes
5|Good tablet, wish the camera was better
3|These things are tricky to get on right
5|I swear by Samsung tablets! Love them!
5|Quick shipping. No issues upon opening.
5|It arrived on time and it works great. I got this for my sister in law, shes really happy the her new tablet . The reason i got this tablet is because it lets you do more then the ipad.
5|Works great! Almost no problems so far!
5|My Son loves it. Better then i expected
5|Excellent tab....its just an S5 big....
5|my daughter will love it come christmas
5|excellent article. meet the expectation
1|What a piece of junk. I purchased this for a friend and now I'm embarrassed. It's slow, laggy and spits n spudders at the slightest of finger swipes. It's 2016, my 2007 iphone ran smoother than this crap. Simple web browsing is NOT smooth. Video playback is terrible (choppy). Games take forever to startup and run like do-do. This is my second android/samsung device and it's very disappointing. My friend that's in the know told me I needed to "root" it and remove the crap stock software that's slowing it down. So I did that, no change in performance. The person I got this for is constantly bringing back to me for various reasons (before and after rooting before you try to blame that). Either the sound wouldn't work or the wi-fi would keep disconnecting. Now the keyboard is freezing and keeps typing letters with accent marks above them. Imagine trying to type in a password when that going on... Also, the speaker is on the BACK??? WHY?! The people behind the tablet can hear it clear as day, the person using it, not at all. It almost requires headphones but if you disconnect/reconnect headphones too many times the sound quits working all together and requires a reboot to work again. Absolute crap. Can't believe I wasted money on this and now have to waste my time on it. Should have just done what EVERYBODY was saying and get an older ipad mini for $60 more. May still do that and use this as a doorstop/birdcage liner. Guess it's a good "starter tablet" for someone so they appreciate the actual tablet (apple) they get next. You get what you pay for. Write that down
5|Works Great with dji 3 advanced go app
5|Arrived timely and met my expectations
5|Great price and fast ship! Thank you1
5|a lot of people thought it was a phone
5|brought this tablet and I love it
5|Perfect performance and size. Love it.
4|My son is really enjoying this tablet.
5|very good product I give it 10 stars .
5|Really great value. I love this thing.
5|Great condition! Love at first touch!!
5|Great sturdy tablet. Worth the money.
5|Amazing Tab for my boy, He love it
4|Is great but I was billed twice for it
5|I'm satisfied with my order thank you!
5|nice tab very sleek and it works great
5|Excelent purchage and exelent product.
5|Arrived quickly and is working great
5|Love it. Great upgrade from my tab2.
5|excellent tablet at a reasonable price
4|Good device, slim and excelent tablet.
5|Good quality tablet for a great price!
5|Super nice tablet, very user friendly.
5|This is a great table for the younger generation. There is parent locks and great games, can stream movies, etc. Great for the car and trips. Glad I got this for my granddaughter.
5|Great Tablet! Easy to use. I particularly like the ability to transfer data and pics back and forth to your PC with Android. Just have to clean up all the crap apps that come on it.
5|Extremely satisfied! Great price too.
5|Great tab! As expected. Well pleased?
5|It works great and very happy with it
5|Excellent product with quick delivery
1|Galaxy Tab 4 crashed within one week.
5|Got this for my dad and he loves it.
4|perfect no issues and works perfect!!
5|A samsung lover - this works great !!
3|Does not support acrobat flash reader
5|I love this just wished it had sim card
5|It is better than we thought. Thanks!
5|I am very pleased with this purchase.
5|It was gifted and the person loves it
5|my wife really likes very much thanks
5|Daughter loved it...works pretty good
5|Nice tablet. Everything I read up on.
