Giving a clear and practical review after using for 3 weeks continuously. Firstly I would like to give the Tips for the existing and upcoming users as it will help you more than reading the reviews. 1. If you get the phone with MIUI 6.5.3 update kindly update it to 6.5.4 asap. It will completely reduce all the heating issues. Otherwise you will feel the phone a fry pan. 2. After receiving peel off the company fitted matte screen protector and place a 8-9H tempered screen guard as the phone doesn't have gorilla glass. 3. Dont try to take pics with manual mode until you know it well. 4.Use a hard back case for keeping away the phone form dust,oil. Still the phone has rubber washable nano finish back but it is recommended to use a back case. 5.Don't access "permission manager". If you turn on the permission manager on many app features will be hidden. 6. Try to off WIFI and mobile data as per your convenience for better battery backup and low heating of the phone. 6.Dont use any launcher instead try to apply the themes available in MI themes.  1. Look and comfortability Mi 4i is the slimmest phone in this range I can challenge. When you hold only the phone without any cover it will give you 1005 comfort to hold it for long times, When in call it is also very comfortable to hold the phone. Its trendy white and black combination gives an mind blowing stylish look. 2. Performance I mainly do internet surfing,little bit gaming,photography,music and youtube. After doing all these things it gives a super 24 hour backup. I only charge once in a day. Coming to its octa core processor. Truly it has a superb speed of performance. It hardly gets hanged with the lucid combination of 2gb RAM and 8 core processor. 3. Camera Its 13MP cam is truly 13MP. You can compare the images taken in daylight with A DSLR clicked image. Its front 5MP cam is just superb for taking selfies. Video quality is very good. But please don't click with manual mode untill you are not so accustomed to click picture in manual mode. It will give you a bad impression of the camera. 4.Network Network reception is too good. It will give you the best 3g experience. Mobile data service is promptly switched on after you on the option. 5.UI The MIUI 6 based on Android L is very good. Unlike the pure android versions you will get many more inbulit features for which you have to install 3rd party apps. Like-junk cleaner,app lock and many more. 6.Sound The sound output is quite low but clear. You will get clear ans bass full sound in headphone. But if you listen songs only in phone then it is little bit low. 7. Display The full HD IPS display will give you best out of your videos,movies. Display is very very clear. But it should have Gorilla glass 3. You will get much more than what you are paying. Go ahead for the phone if you are looking for a handy,sexy,performance mi-budget phone.
