Before I go into my first week review, a little background on my smartphone experience. I started with Samsung S3 and then jumped up to HTC One M8 and finally landed on the Mi 4i. I gave away my HTC One M8 to my dad and I wanted to try something in the lower price bracket. I am not expecting at par performance with the M8 because few phones can match its performance but if the Mi 4i can even come 70% close to meeting the M8's awesome feel I will be grateful.  A week has passed and I had ordered this on the 11th June registered sale. I got a defective piece on 12th June, the phone just did not start even after fully charging the batteries. Called up Flipkart customer care and they were prompt in replacing the set. I got my replacement on 14th June and now have used it for 3 days. I feel 3 days is enough to get a first impression of any phone and here's my take.  Design: 7/10 I loved the metallic design and the curves of the HTC One M8 and compared to that the Mi 4i is a bit plastic but for the price it sure does look glamorous. Just pair it with a good cover and it is sure to stand out from the crowd.  Screen: 10/10 Yup, the screen clarity is at par with the HTC One M8. In fact, the sharpness of logos and icons, text is just uncanny. Downside though is that notification top bar is tiny and at times so are other areas but at least very very clear. Videos in HD look beautiful.  Camera: 9/10 Back camera takes awesome pictures although low light pics leave a bit to the imagination. Overall though the camera is splendid with aperture control, real time effect control, HDR and other controls while you take a picture. Front camera is equally impressive and I feel that both cameras actually deliver above the price tag of the phone.  Music: 10/10 I don't really care for music from the built-in speakers neither do I ever use a phone to listen to music. Frankly phones can never come close to the quality you get from good music players or DACs. I use a Cowon D2+ with a E11K Amp paired with an AudioTechnica M50x to listen to music so trust me when I say this - this is the best damn sounding phone I have tried thus far with headphones on. Built-in equalizer does a wonderful job and it works even if you try it with internet radio apps such as Gaana, Murfie and more.  Connectivity: 7/10 WiFi I feel is a bit sluggish but it is ok, not something I can't live without. Mobile Data connection though feels more fluid. You get a 3.5mm jack and a data charging mini-USB port. No expansion slot to add a memory card, so beware if you think otherwise. What it does support is OTG so you can connect hard drives or pen drives directly and use data stored there to play videos and more.  Heating & Performance: 7/10 The phone does heat up when it charges battery, when you are on a call for long or doing something processor intensive such as multi-tasking or playing a game. It is not unbearable and similar to what I faced with the Samsung S3. As for performance, you have two modes, Balanced and Performance mode. In the balanced mode, it is sluggish and can at times hang on some apps, mine does on Murfie. In the performance mode, it is just slightly sluggish at times but most of the time fluent. Just remember to manually drop apps that you are finished using.  Overall: 10/10 Considering the price tag of the phone, you better not expect a 10 by 10 in all departments but overall for the areas where it does average, it has plenty more where it excels. So for just 13k this is the best damn phone right now in the market and I am comparing it to phones as high as 17 to 18k.  PS: Get the Graphene Armor ULTRA HD tempered glass to protect your screen, it does not detract from the screen in any way and also remember to download the 800MB update the moment you get your phone setup, it does take care of many issues previously mentioned by other reviewers.
