Got this mobile in big billion sale in 9k (10k + 10% bank offer). Coming to the points about this phone  1. MIUI 7 update has arrived to Mi 4i and it has solved all problems with phone. Dont believe anyone who says phone gets overheated. I have tested it using CPU-Z application, now temperatures remain within 38-43 degree limits and at the same time Xiaomi has enabled all 8 cores at the same time (earlier only 6 cores were enabled in normal mode to prevent overheating which resulted in lags , stutter and slow performance) but now phone gives better performance with all 8 cores On and almost no lags. Now phone is faster than ever before (company claims 30% fast and 10% more battery efficient). Just make sure to update your phone as first thing to do before using your phone (update is around 800 MB). Little heating is still there while making calls but it is very tolerable. Almost all android phones do so, even my Galaxy S2 used to heat way much more than this.  2. Battery backup (3120mah) is awesome. Keeping full day Wi-Fi on and medium usage like surfing web, youtube, playing music (I dont play games), battery is still 55% at the end of the day and you can easily use it till next day as well. Also charging time is decent (2.5 hours max).  3. After update to MIUI 7, free Ram is also increased 850MB. And phone has become less laggy and faster.  4. Camera is really class. Beautiful stunning pics captured. I actually bought it because of its camera.  5. Storage is limited as you all know..but it does not bother me that much. Display is very sharp and one of the best displays out there in market.  6. Phone is very stylish and so lightweight (130 gm) considering massive battery 3120 mah. So looks wise no complaints at all.  7. The best thing buying xiaomi phone is software update cycle is very frequent and they take into account users feedback seriously. I hope phone will be improved further in future.  Only competitor I find is Coolpad Note 3, but dont know its service since its a new company. If you can get this phone under 10k, then its a deal..
