This is a great phone in almost every aspect. You may have noticed reviews of overheating, hardware failure, cheap Chinese phone etc. Since many people tries to compare Xiami with apple so these are my observations, First off all Apple iPhone available in our country is made in china and almost all of their hardware are China, Taiwan, South Korea based company made (Foxconn, Samsung etc). So please do some research before talking bullshit. Regarding poor QAQC I will say my own ipod touch 4G's home button broke down just after its warranty period was expired. Talked to Apple support and found Apple service centre at Kolkata. But they told me it will cost 16000. One of my colleagues iphone display showing problem within 4 months. This is their top notch QAQC process. Besides everybody knows the last iphone bending issue. Now our problem is, if it is a popular brand and showing some problem, it is bad luck but for Xiami, it is just a cheap Chinese phone so it will show problem. Again 13000 phone is cheap but Apple’s 71% OVERPRICED (teardown) iphone is WORTHY!! We are such a FOOOOOLLLL. My god. And most of the companies are taking advantage of our lack of knowledge. OK, I am not comparing it with Apple, just few examples. For those who believes blindly in Apple, Samsung, please read in depth about their hardware before making fan boy comments. Enough said, coming to pros and cons, Pros: 1. Very well designed phone and superb build quality in this price point. They are very careful to the box packing of the phone as well. You will definitely admire this, once you move your figure over and inside the box. 2. Nice finishing and sleek design, light weight. You will feel that you are holding a much expensive phone. 3. It does not HEATS LIKE A HEATER NOT EVEN CLOSE TO IT. It might get worm during 3g download, gaming, charging but it is definitely not a deal breaker. Please switch to balanced mode and keep S/w up to date. 4. Awesome display resolution and 441 pixel density. Brightness level and colour saturation is also amazing. 5. Camera is also very crisp and clear compared to any other phone up to 25000k price tag approx. 6. Snapdragon processor even in balanced mode and 2GB LPDDR3 makes miui buttery smooth and fluid. But you will get only 800MB avg free ram. 7. Sound quality is also good (not great) but call clarity is EXCELLENT. Cons: 1. The major problem with MI is less number of service centre in India. Since they manufacture less no of device so their spare parts availability is also an issue. I have goggled a lot and found that they take long to repair (as long as 1 month). It is really annoying. 2. The MIUI though very well designed, intuitive, customizable, good looking UI but it feels like a copy more or less of IOS. And I totally dislike this area. They must develop something of their own. 3. Nothing So whatever you decide it’s up to you but I will definitely recommend this phone. Last of all, Flipkart service is ONE OF THE BEST and I have not experienced any problem in last 3 years with any replacement. Thanks for reading my review.
