Good phone....I like its performance
Good phone....satisfied
Best Made in India phone at 9K
Priced at Rs. 8,999, the YU YUREKA PLUS is a good 4G smartphone for the price! it has an edge when it comes to performance and battery life. 
Yureka plus has improved the camera and offers a 1080p display. The YUREKA PLUS runs on Cyanogen OS with a lot of customization options and security features, 
compared to other smartphones in the price range.
Pros
Good display
Good camera
Cyanogen OS is smooth
Competitive pricing
Cons
Gets heated quickly
Average battery life
At this price, This phone is killer phone!
Aweasome Phone
My friend has recently bought this phone. I had just gone to his place to see the phone. My first impressions on seeing the phone was- WOW!
The phone is fast and is of good quality. The phone I felt is worth the price to pay.
Amazing tech at an affordable price!
Low on money and want an amazing phone? Then Yu has an answer for you! With it's last launch of Yureka Plus, 
they introduced a whole lot of confusion in which one to buy. But nonetheless I ordered this beast which is encased in a beautiful body. 
I brought this phone from friend's account. When compared to the first installment of Yureka, this has many upgrades.Some of the notable ones are the
- Full HD display with 1920*1080 resolution which gives crisp quality images and video!
- Camera has bumped to 13MP with upgraded Camera UI.
- Snapdragon x64 bit processor makes it a smooth experience.
- Upgraded LTE features which allow user to reach 150Mbps.
The only downside I face was the over-heating under intense use, but recently they've released a patch to fix this.
Waiting for lollipop update!
Really Better than Before!
I really love that YU has finally re-launched the product with KITKAT which is the best Android OS version till date.
I have recently bought the YUREKA PLUS with stock android (4.4) and its awesome.
Camera.
IMX 214 is the real performer pictures comes out with true color reproduction.
Battery.
As it is on 4.4 Kitkat i am getting around 8 hour Screen on time minimum and battery last for more than a day.
Performance.
Its real performer, with stock android. Waiting to use YU community OS.
Best thing is anyone can move to Cyanogen OS whenever we want. Really love YU's doorstep service policy atleast i dont have to wait 
for weekend and go to Service center which is around 30-40 KM away. "Real peace of mind" :)
Good product
V gud product
Really enjoying using the phone for the past 5 days
Looks and camera is just superb.
Best phone at just 8999
Pros
1. Stock android stable and better
2. Better performance
3. camera is good
4. price is less
5. Good display
6. High end graphics
Cons
1. Battery could be improved.
Best Phone with a fine hardware quality
Best Phone with a fine hardware quality and build quality is simply aweasome!!
Improved display with good viewing angles
Decent camera
Good performance
User friendly phone and worth for money
Whether it is upgradable to lolipop!!
Best Budget Phone
Yu Yureka Plus on android is great smartphone with stock android rom. The full HD screen will give you amazing 
feel in watching and playing games.The 615 processor with 2GB RAM gives you multitasking and good performance. 
Battery life on phone is also good. Sound quality is great and camera is fabulous. Due to stock android heating 
issues are also reduced. It is the best phone under this price and the overall experience of the device is amazing. 
KEEP IT UP YU..!!
Lag free awesome phone.
Its been a great smartphone till now.
The stock Android takes the lead to make the phones much faster and snappier.
Its a lag free phone.
Heat level is now reduced.
Games run flawlessly.
HD viewing is great at this price.
Camera is fabulous.
I loved the overall experience from the phone.
Seriously YUPlayGod!!!
Recently, I bought this device from Amazon. The delivery was awesome, I get the device in 1 day. 
The packing was great. I thought there will be bugs. But after using it for a time, I get to know 
it is totally bug free and smooth. The screen is sharp and vivid. Both are cameras are fine. 
The taste of pure stock is tasty very very much. The device battery last me total 1 day with normal usage. 
And I am totally satisfied with my device. 
Seriously YU plays God!!!!
SALE SALE SALE
Thank you amazon for complete refund. I bought this phone but received damaged product. 
I returned back the phone and got complete refund. Anyways I bought two covers for this phone ( link mentioned below). 
Any one interested in buying phone covers may contact me for details. Covers are of good quality, 
unpacked and unused as i returned the phone. My Email ID is pabhishekprasad@gmail.com.
1. http://www.shopclues.com/anti-shock-hard-silicone-bumper-back-case-cover-for-micromax-yu-yureka-grey.html
2. http://www.shopclues.com/yu-yureka-plus-premium-rubberized-matte-back-case-cover-by-icopertina.html
They are not of any use to me. I will cut you a sweet deal.I can send you the pics and everything, 
even the genuine bill if you want. Contact me on above mentioned ID if anyone is interested. 
FIRST COME FIRST SERVE
Five Stars
User friendly phone and worth for money
But the flash light is not working and no options to switch it on
Whether it is upgradable to lolipop
true review after using it for 3 days.
I'll not write specifications here,I'll start directly by pros and cons. I previously own Yureka,of second sale.
PROS-
1-A big change in display. A full HD display is far far better than yureka's 720 p.
2-camera is superb.better than yureka's.
3- the most important one- battery is performing mind blowing now on stock KitKat,getting 7-8 hours screen on time. 
In my previous Yureka ,battery lasts for about 3 hours(screen on time) max.
4-free ram on first boot is 1.3 GB and in Yureka it was about 1.1 GB.
5-stock android is bug free,lag free.good performance
6-now much less heating,as compare to Yureka... To be honest there is no heating now in Yureka plus on android.
Cons-
1-no cyanogenmod so no customization :-(
2-it takes nearly 3 hours 25 mins to charge from 2% to 99%
3- it takes about 1-2 sec to on after pressing power button.
4-only 25688 on antutu,but on Yureka it was about 35668
Dats it.
It is the great phone for me
It is the great phone for me. I got lots of specifications in this more than any ordinary android phone. It is completely value for money for me.
contradiction with android versions
While buying , the product is presented with lollipop cyanogen mod. , but product received with kitkat.
Rest features are up to the mark.
Can't expect more for Rs 8,999!!!
Awesome display, camera okay for both P&S can't expect more of it, design and look 8/10,
However, Heat problem is one of a drawback.
Plus I don't know why sometimes when I get a call from someone, I m not able to see the contact number. Otherwise all good for Rs 8,999!
The Phone is excellent in all respects except heating
This review is for Yureka Plus with cyanogenmod. The Phone is excellent in all respects except heating. You can't keep it in your pocket as you may feel 
your chest is burnt. If it is 3GB RAM and 32GB ROM, then that would have been a good configuration. Even then this phone is worth the penny.An update is 
still expected from cyanogen to fix some of the issues like display,proximity sensor,heating etc. The service of Amazon was good. As assured, 
it delivered the phone. I feel such phones need to be equipped with NFC too.Every mobile gets outdated within an year or two. After the availability 
of 4G LTE enabled devices 3G phones are getting outdated. After NFC, this device will be nowhere. Rs.9000/- worth phone is expected to last for 3 years 
at the least. You play god may explore the possibilities of introduction of Tablets & 2-in-1 at affordable rates.I recommend you to go for cyanogen based 
instead of Stock Android kitkat. Anyhow this phone deserves 4 Star rating.
Enhanced model with pluspoints
Yu Yureka Plus running on android is new smartphone boasting stock android rom unlike its previous versions which were running in CyanogenMod .
The specifications on the paper is quite impressive. The full HD screen of phone will give you amazing feel in watching and playing games.
The Snapdragon 615 processor coupled with 2GB of RAM will ensure smooth multitasking and performance.Battery life on stock stock android gives 
more backup compared to customs OS.One of the problem is only that it is running on Kitkat but company has ensured customers that it will give 
Android 5.0.2 Lollipop Update.Overall yhis would be like the previous versions but enhanced.
Four Stars
Good product but need improvement in OS upgradation and little bit heating issue.
Otherwise every thing is fine.
It does not have the cyanogen OS...
It does not have the cyanogen OS...it has the outdated Android look...also it does not have the audio fx app..
it is written that it is upgradable to Android lollipop 5.0.2 but till now no update is given by the company...
screen heats on the top side even while playing light games...it also charges very slowly..
Please mention correct specification
As per mention specification this smartphon3 comes with android version 5.0 (lollipop), but in my purchase it comes with 4.4.4(KitKat) android version.
when compared to other smart phones it stands out in specifications
Yureka plus is an excellant smartphone...when compared to other smart phones it stands out in specifications..... 
Camera perfomance is excellant....its happy that u get a quality camera in this orice rabge.... The main default of 
this phone is it get heating while playing games or watching videos.....so that u can use this device as a phone and an iron box......
Camera is not good
Display is good
Battery backup is ok
Buttttttt.......it is heating man
Camera is not up to the mark ..
Not cyanogen only KitKat just like old Micromax
Overall its good
Yureka Plus on Android [ No Cyanogen OS ]
The difference between Yureka Plus on Android and the older Yureka Plus is that this model is running on Stock Android while the 
earlier released YU Yureka Plus- Alabaster White is running on Cyanogen OS. Unfortunately this is running on Android Kitkat and 
it is not clear if it will get Android Lollipop update immediately or Android 6.0 update in the future.
Other than the OS, all other features of the phone remains the same. So it is highly recommended to read the Verified Customers 
reviews here -> YU Yureka Plus- Alabaster White before buying this product to see Pros and Cons.
Camer quality is good. Battery is ok Cons
I purchased Yureka mobile in Feb 2015 here is my review after 6 months use.
Pros :
After lollypop update heating and sound issue solved.
Camer quality is good.
Battery is ok
Cons :
Heats mobile after 5 min use.
Previously mobile reboots 3 time in a month now it is rebooting 2-3 time in a day.
Mobile Hangs frequently.
Suddenly faced Video recording problem, while recording street video it captures too much noise. Video recording is not too clear.
Now faced new problem when selecting Video recording option it will get out from the camera. Not able to record video.
Changed Charging Cable twice, if we charge mobile from Yureka charger it will not work afterwords.
So frustrated with Yureka now calling Yureka support for replacement.
Me suggestion is don't buy Yureka product it will show there real colour after 3-4 months.
Finally Choice is yours.
limitations
My phone is not update into lolipot version ...
It is not work properly .....hang problem create many time
HEATING!HEATING!HEATING!
You have cheated us.this phone is heating a lot. It is hanging also even though I haven't installed much of the apps that too are in SD card.
Had to return the product because of unexpected restarts when connected to LTE
I had to return the product as it was getting restarted all the time after connecting 4G. Called YU cusomer care, they did a hard reset which did not help. 
Finally I had to return the product to amazon.
Defective piece
Defective phone...... defects in headphone jack....so not working properly
dont buy..waste of money.pick another brand.
Its a worst product to buy.I purchased and within 10 days I have replaced.so many problem arises.overheat and battery backup is main pblm.
don't consider it as normal problem.
Phone is heated that much so u can't touch to your ear.and battery drains within 2 hr completely by normal using.and takes 7hr to charge full.
if u face any pblm in future then yu care will not support u.it takes 1 month for any action.worst care in all mobile sector.we can contact with 
them only by call which is chargeble.its worst thing is its UI.not comfrdable with user.u will get irritatd.don't buy.I recommend mi4i.try it.
after take decision.amazon have facility to return product within 9days.
Worst Mobile
It was my biggest mistake to buy this phone worst phone speed is very slow , camera quality is not good,heating problem.
And worst thing is amazon do not provide pickup service in my city if you don't have pickup service then why the hell you have delivery service . 
really don't expect this from amazon.
My sincere advice to everyone don't ever buy this phone.
The worst phone ever don't try to buy Please
The worst phone ever don't try to buy
Please. These is my request to all. You can't resolve the heating and hanging problem.
wtf ...it's kitkat !!
Why the hell they are not providing this phone with the same specification. As read from the reviews i cancelled my order because 
it's running on kitkat!! A big dissappointment for those who purchased it. No info regarding lollipop upgrade is shown.
Help me with a reply when this issue will be resolved because i want to purchase it in black colour
