Enforcing Encrypted Security Policies in
Outsourced EnvironmentstitlerpThe enforcement of security policies in outsourced
environments is still an open challenge for policy-based systems.
On the one hand, taking the appropriate security decision
requires access to the policies. However, if such access is allowed
in an untrusted environment then confidential information might
be leaked by the policies. Current solutions are based on
cryptographic operations that embed security policies with the
security mechanism. Therefore, the enforcement of such policies
is performed by allowing the authorised parties to access the
appropriate keys. We believe that such solutions are far too rigid
because they strictly intertwine authorisation policies with the
enforcing mechanism.
In this paper, we want to address the issue of enforcing security
policies in an untrusted environment while protecting the policy
confidentiality. Our solution ESPOON is aiming at providing a
clear separation between security policies and the enforcement
mechanism. However, the enforcement mechanism should learn
as less as possible about both the policies and the requester
attributes.abstractrpEncrypted Policies; Policy Protection; Sensitive
Policy Evaluation; Data Outsourcing; Cloud Computing; Privacy;
Security keywordsrpThe cost saving associated with a general improvement
in the quality of services and operations provided makes
outsourcing of the IT infrastructure a business model adopted
by many companies. Even sectors such as healthcare initially
reluctant to this model are now slowly adopting it [2].
Outsourcing typically relies on third parties to provide and
maintain a very reliable IT infrastructure. However, the data
stored on the outsourced servers are within easy reach of the
infrastructure provider that could reuse the data for unintended
and/or malicious purposes.
Several technical approaches have been proposed to guarantee
the confidentiality of the data in an outsourced environment.
For instance, solutions as those described in [3], [4] allow
a protected storage of data while maintaining basic search
capabilities to be performed on the server side. However, such
solutions do not support access policies to regulate the access
of a user (or a group of users) to a particular subset of the
stored data.Solutions for providing access control mechanisms in outsourced
environments have mainly focused on encryption
techniques that couple access policies with set of keys, such as
the one described in [5]. Only users possessing a key (or a set
of hierarchy-derivable keys) are authorised to access the data.
The main drawback of these solutions is that security policies
are tightly coupled with the security mechanism incurring in
high processing cost for performing any administrative change
for both the users and the policies representing the access
rights.
A policy-based solution such the one described for the
Ponder language in [6] results more flexible and easy to
manage because it clearly separates the security policies from
the enforcement mechanism. However, policy-based access
control mechanisms were not designed to operate in outsourced
environments. Such solution can work only when
they are deployed and operated within a trusted domain (i.e.,
the computational environment managed by the organisation
owning the data). If these mechanisms are outsourced in
an untrusted environment, the access policies that are to be
enforced on the server may leak information on the data they
are protecting. As an example, let us consider a scenario where
a hospital has outsourced its healthcare data management
services to a third party service provider. We assume that the
service provider is honest-but-curious, similarly to the existing
literature on data outsourcing. That is, it is honest to perform
the required operations as described in the protocol but curious
to know the data contents. In other words, the service provider
does not preserve the data confidentiality. A patient’s medical
record should be associated with an access policy to prevent
that any hospital employees is allowed to see the patient’s data.
The data is stored with an access policy on the outsourced
environment. As an example of such an access policy, let
us consider the following access policy: only a Cardiologist
may access the data. From this policy, it is possible to infer
important information about the user’s medical data (even if
the actual medical record is encrypted). This policy reveals
that a patient could have heart problems. A curious service
provider may sell this information to banks that could deny
the patient a loan given her health condition. In this paper, we present a policy-based access control
mechanism for outsourced environments where we support
full confidentiality of the access policies. We named our solution
ESPOON (Encrypted Security Policies for OutsOursed
eNvironments). One of the main advantages of ESPOON is
that we maintain the clear separation between the security
policies and the actual enforcing mechanism without loss of
confidentiality. This can be guaranteed under the assumption
that the service provider is honest-but-curious. Our approach
allows to implement the access control mechanism as an
outsourced service with all the benefits associated with this
business model without compromising the confidentiality of
the policies. Summarising, the research contributions of our
approach are threefold. First of all, the service provider does
not learn anything about policies and the requester’s attributes
during the policy evaluation process. Second, ESPOON is
capable of handling complex policies involving non-monotonic
boolean expressions and range queries. Third, the system
entities do not share any encryption keys and even if a user
is deleted or revoked, the system is still able to perform
its operations without requiring re-encryption of the policies.
As a proof-of-concept, we have implemented a prototype
architecture of our access control mechanism and analysed
its performance to quantify the incurred overhead.introductionrpIn this paper, we have presented the ESPOON architecture
to support policy-based access control mechanism for outsourced
and untrusted environments. Our approach separates
the security policies from the actual enforcing mechanism
while guaranteeing the confidentiality of the policies when
given assumptions hold (i.e., the SP is honest-but-curious).
The main advantage of our approach is that policies are
encrypted but it still allows the PDP to perform the policy
evaluation while not learning anything on the policies. Second,
ESPOON is capable of handling complex policies involving
non-monotonic boolean expressions and range queries. Finally,
the authorised users do not share any encryption keys making
the process of key management very scalable. Even if a user
key is deleted or revoked, the other entities are still able to
perform their operations without requiring re-encryption of the
policies.
As future directions of our research, we are working on
integrating a secure audit mechanism in ESPOON. The mechanism
should allow the SP to generate genuine audit logs
without allowing the SP to get information about both the
data and the policies. However, an auditing authority must
be able to retrieve information about who accessed the data
and what policy was enforced for any access request made.
Another direction of our work is towards the extension of
the encrypted search and match capabilities to handle the
case of negative authorisation policies and policies for longlived
sessions where the conditions need to be continuously
monitored and the attributes of the request can be dynamically
updated.conclusionrp[1] M. R. Asghar, M. Ion, G. Russello, and B. Crispo, “ESPOON: Enforcing
Encrypted Security Policies in Outsourced Environments,” in The Sixth
International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, ser.
ARES’11. IEEE Computer Society, August 2011, pp. 99–108.
[2] K. Ondo and M. Smith, “Outside it: the case for full it outsourcing,”
Healthcare financial management : journal of the Healthcare Financial
Management Association, vol. 60, no. 2, pp. 92–98, 2006.
[3] C. Dong, G. Russello, and N. Dulay, “Shared and searchable encrypted
data for untrusted servers,” in DBSec, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, V. Atluri, Ed., vol. 5094. Springer, 2008, pp. 127–143.
[4] S. Kamara and K. Lauter, “Cryptographic cloud storage,” in Financial
Cryptography Workshops, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
R. Sion, R. Curtmola, S. Dietrich, A. Kiayias, J. M. Miret, K. Sako,
and F. Seb´e, Eds., vol. 6054. Springer, 2010, pp. 136–149.
[5] S. D. C. di Vimercati, S. Foresti, S. Jajodia, S. Paraboschi, G. Pelosi,
and P. Samarati, “Preserving confidentiality of security policies in data
outsourcing,” in WPES, V. Atluri and M. Winslett, Eds. ACM, 2008,
pp. 75–84.
[6] G. Russello, C. Dong, and N. Dulay, “Authorisation and conflict
resolution for hierarchical domains,” in Proceedings of the Eighth
IEEE International Workshop on Policies for Distributed Systems and
Networks. Washington, DC, USA: IEEE Computer Society, 2007,
pp. 201–210. [Online]. Available: http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=
1263544.1263884
[7] D. X. Song, D. Wagner, and A. Perrig, “Practical techniques for searches
on encrypted data,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2000,
pp. 44–55.
[8] D. Boneh, G. D. Crescenzo, R. Ostrovsky, and G. Persiano, “Public key
encryption with keyword search,” in EUROCRYPT, ser. Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, C. Cachin and J. Camenisch, Eds., vol. 3027.
Springer, 2004, pp. 506–522.
[9] P. Golle, J. Staddon, and B. R. Waters, “Secure conjunctive keyword
search over encrypted data,” in ACNS, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, M. Jakobsson, M. Yung, and J. Zhou, Eds., vol. 3089. Springer,
2004, pp. 31–45.
[10] R. Curtmola, J. Garay, S. Kamara, and R. Ostrovsky, “Searchable
symmetric encryption: improved definitions and efficient constructions,”
in Proceedings of the 13th ACM conference on Computer and
communications security, ser. CCS ’06. New York, NY, USA:
ACM, 2006, pp. 79–88. [Online]. Available: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/
1180405.1180417
[11] Y. H. Hwang and P. J. Lee, “Public key encryption with conjunctive
keyword search and its extension to a multi-user system,” in Pairing, ser.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, T. Takagi, T. Okamoto, E. Okamoto,
and T. Okamoto, Eds., vol. 4575. Springer, 2007, pp. 2–22.
[12] D. Boneh and B. Waters, “Conjunctive, subset, and range queries on
encrypted data,” in TCC, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, S. P.
Vadhan, Ed., vol. 4392. Springer, 2007, pp. 535–554.
[13] P. Wang, H. Wang, and J. Pieprzyk, “Threshold privacy preserving
keyword searches,” in SOFSEM, ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
V. Geffert, J. Karhum¨aki, A. Bertoni, B. Preneel, P. N´avrat, and
M. Bielikov´a, Eds., vol. 4910. Springer, 2008, pp. 646–658.
[14] J. Baek, R. Safavi-Naini, and W. Susilo, “Public key encryption with
keyword search revisited,” in ICCSA (1), ser. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, O. Gervasi, B. Murgante, A. Lagan`a, D. Taniar, Y. Mun, and
M. L. Gavrilova, Eds., vol. 5072. Springer, 2008, pp. 1249–1259.
[15] H. S. Rhee, J. H. Park, W. Susilo, and D. H. Lee, “Trapdoor security
in a searchable public-key encryption scheme with a designated tester,”
Journal of Systems and Software, vol. 83, no. 5, pp. 763–771, 2010.
[16] J. Shao, Z. Cao, X. Liang, and H. Lin, “Proxy re-encryption with
keyword search,” Inf. Sci., vol. 180, no. 13, pp. 2576–2587, 2010.
[17] S. D. C. di Vimercati, S. Foresti, S. Jajodia, S. Paraboschi, and
P. Samarati, “A data outsourcing architecture combining cryptography
and access control,” in Proceedings of the 2007 ACM workshop
on Computer security architecture, ser. CSAW ’07. New York,
NY, USA: ACM, 2007, pp. 63–69. [Online]. Available: http:
//doi.acm.org/10.1145/1314466.1314477
[18] ——, “Over-encryption: management of access control evolution on
outsourced data,” in Proceedings of the 33rd international conference
on Very large data bases, ser. VLDB ’07. VLDB Endowment, 2007,
pp. 123–134. [Online]. Available: http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=
1325851.1325869
[19] M. J. Atallah, M. Blanton, N. Fazio, and K. B. Frikken, “Dynamic
and efficient key management for access hierarchies,” ACM Trans. Inf.
Syst. Secur., vol. 12, pp. 18:1–18:43, January 2009. [Online]. Available:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1455526.1455531
[20] S. Narayan, M. Gagn´e, and R. Safavi-Naini, “Privacy preserving ehr
system using attribute-based infrastructure,” in CCSW ’10: Proceedings
of the 2010 ACM workshop on Cloud computing security workshop.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, 2010, pp. 47–52.
[21] J. Bethencourt, A. Sahai, and B. Waters, “Ciphertext-policy attributebased
encryption,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE
Computer Society, 2007, pp. 321–334.
[22] A. Sahai and B. Waters, “Fuzzy identity-based encryption,” in EUROCRYPT,
ser. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, R. Cramer, Ed., vol.
3494. Springer, 2005, pp. 457–473.
[23] V. Goyal, O. Pandey, A. Sahai, and B. Waters, “Attribute-based encryption
for fine-grained access control of encrypted data,” in ACM
Conference on Computer and Communications Security, A. Juels, R. N.
Wright, and S. D. C. di Vimercati, Eds. ACM, 2006, pp. 89–98.
[24] R. Ostrovsky, A. Sahai, and B. Waters, “Attribute-based encryption with
non-monotonic access structures,” in ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, P. Ning, S. D. C. di Vimercati, and P. F.
Syverson, Eds. ACM, 2007, pp. 195–203.
[25] J. E. Holt, R. W. Bradshaw, K. E. Seamons, and H. K. Orman, “Hidden
credentials,” in WPES, S. Jajodia, P. Samarati, and P. F. Syverson, Eds.
ACM, 2003, pp. 1–8.[26] R. W. Bradshaw, J. E. Holt, and K. E. Seamons, “Concealing complex
policies with hidden credentials,” in ACM Conference on Computer and
Communications Security, V. Atluri, B. Pfitzmann, and P. D. McDaniel,
Eds. ACM, 2004, pp. 146–157.
[27] Yavatkar, Pendarakis, and Guerin, “Ietf rfc 2753: A framework for policy
based admission control,” 2000, http://docstore.mik.ua/rfc/rfc2753.html.
[28] M. Van Dijk and A. Juels, “On the impossibility of cryptography
alone for privacy-preserving cloud computing,” in Proceedings of the
5th USENIX conference on Hot topics in security, ser. HotSec’10.
Berkeley, CA, USA: USENIX Association, 2010, pp. 1–8. [Online].
Available: http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1924931.1924934
11referencesrp
