Hybrid Approach to Assess User ReviewstitlerpIn this paper we discuss semantic and machine learning approaches to classify user reviews of
trending products into spam and non-spam, it is then followed by rating all the reviews. A trending
product is defined as frequently mentioned product on the web. In this paper we use two cases.
First case is classifying the reviews as spam and non-spam. Second case is rating the user reviews
on a scale from 1-5. We have used semantic and machine learning algorithms for both the cases on
five different products' dataset. We have collected datasets comprising of both spam and non-spam
reviews for training and testing purposes. We have obtained an average accuracy of 82.2% for the
first case and 84.4% for the second case considering all the five products using Semantic approach.
Similarly, we have obtained an accuracy of 82.2% using MLP (Neural network) for the first case
. For the second case, we have obtained accuracy of 89.4% using SMO. Our method of assessing
user reviews differs from other works in literature such that, we have devised hybrid approach
for classifying as well as rating the reviews. Our approach obtains an average accuracy of 83.3%
and 85.8% for semantic and machine learning approach respectively that works for reviews across
domains.abstractrpReviews, Spam, Semantic, Machine Learning, Product ratingkeywordsrpE-commerce websites have become very popular across different sections of society. People have
started buying different kinds of products like electronic items, clothing, furniture etc., through
E-commerce websites, because of its ease and simplicity. Product reviews have an important role
in any E-commerce organization. The Web has greatly enhanced the way people perform certain
activities (e.g. shopping),find information, and interact with others. Today many people read/write
reviews on merchant sites, blogs, forums, and social media before/after they purchase products or
services. These reviews are responsible for the development of an organization. User-generated
online reviews can play a significant role in the success of retail products, hotels, restaurants, etc.
However, review systems are often targeted by opinion spammers who seek to distort the perceived
quality of a product by creating fraudulent reviews [2]. Users will look into the reviews of the
product before buying it. Since anybody can write reviews, it is very important to identify reliable
reviews.
Review has two main parts, Review Content and Product Rating. Product Rating is the product
score given by the customers in the form of stars ranging from 1 to 5. Rating and Content of the reviews can be analyzed together for identifying genuine user reviews. Review spam is designed
to give unfair view of some products so as to in
uence the consumers perception of the products
by directly or indirectly in
ating or damaging the products reputation[14]. Two rating behavior
which indicates spam is: 1. opinion is highly positive and rating is quite low 2.opinion is negative
and rating is high [1]. Spam reviews contain invalid content which may misguide the customers
resulting in a negative impact on an organization.
There are generally two types of spam reviews. The first type consists of those that deliberately
mislead readers or automated opinion mining systems by giving undeserving positive opinions to
some target products in order to promote them and/or by giving unjust or malicious negative
reviews to some other products in order to damage their reputation. The second type consists of
nonreviews (e.g., ads) which contain no opinions on the product [3]. In this paper, we identify spam
reviews as the preliminary step. In the subsequent steps, we rate the reviews on a scale from 1 to
5, 5 for the most reliable review and 1 for the unreliable review. People are used to 5-star rating
system since it's the most conventional of all the rating systems we see on the web, used on Net
ix,
Yelp, Amazon, etc. This review rating method helps the customers to provide better reviews about
the product and enable them to shop wisely.
Reviews can be collected in two different formats i. e., structured and unstructured. The structured
review is questionnaires about the products or items with specified options against each feature.
Thus structured review is bounded and static. The analysis of structured review is simple, easy to
process and analyze. But unstructured review is collected in the form of free text [4]. In this paper
we consider only unstructured reviews.
The main focus of this paper is on classifying the product reviews from various web sources into
spam or non-spam as well as rating the reviews based on its content. However this concept can be
extended to other aspects like movie reviews, company reviews available in glassdoor.com, reviews
on tourist places etc.introductionrpWe have used an empirical approach to classify the reviews as spam or non-spam and to rate the reviews based
on the content of the review. For evaluating the validity of the reviews of a product, MLP is the better machine
learning algorithm to use since it has high average accuracy. MLP works better when compared to other algorithms
since it uses back propagation. MLP can approximate any complex decision boundary to divide the input space with
arbitrary accuracy. For rating the reviews of a product, SMO is the better machine learning algorithm to use and
has high average accuracy. SMO algorithm is highly scalable and works well on sparse data.
The proposed method can be applied to assess reviews across various domains unlike other works in literature which
confine to a particular domain. Based on the availability of product rating and review content, either semantic or
machine learning approach can be used to analyze the review. This study helps to identify reliable reviews for any
given product for the benefit of common people and organizations.conclusionrpJagruti Prajapati, Malay Bhatt Dinesh, J. Prajapati, Detection and Summarization of Genuine Review using
Visual Data Mining, 2012
[2] Leman Akoglu, Rishi Chandy, Christos Faloutsos, Opinion Fraud Detection in Online Reviews by Network Effects,
2013
[3] Nitin Jindal and Bing Liu ,Review Spam Detection, 2008
[4] Khairullah Khan, Baharum Baharudin, and Aurangzeb Khan, Identifying Product Features from Customer
Reviews Using Hybrid Patterns, 2013
[5] M. Daiyan, Dr. S. K.Tiwari, M. A. Alam, Mining Product Reviews for Spam Detection Using Supervised Tech-
nique, 2014
[6] Geli Fei, Arjun Mukherjee, Bing Liu, Meichun Hsu, Malu Castellanos, Riddhiman Ghosh, Exploiting Burstiness
in Reviews for Review Spammer Detection, 2013
[7] Ramez Elmasri and Shamkanth B. Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systems, Third Edition.
[8] Zhang Xiao li, Using Fuzzy Neural Network in Real Estate Prices Prediction, 2007.
[9] Jsoup, [Online] Available: http://jsoup.org
[10] Stanford NLP, [Online] Available: http://nlp.stanford.edu/
[11] Anil Kumar K.M, Anil B, Anand C U, Aniruddha S, Rajath Kumar U, Machine Learning Approach to Predict
Real Estate Prices, 2015
[12] Aylien, [Online] Available: www.aylien.com
[13] Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Georey Holmes, Bernhard Pfahringer, Peter Reutemann, Ian H. Witten, The WEKA
Data Mining Software: An Update, 2009
[14] Ee-Peng Lim, Viet-An Nguyen, Nitin Jindal, Bing Liu and Hady W. Lauw, Detecting Product Review Spammers
using Rating Behaviors, 2010.
[15] Anil Kumar K.M, Suresha, Analyzing Web user Opinion from Phrases and Emoticons, 2011 referencesrp