Using Fuzzy Neural Network in Real Estate Prices PredictiontitlerpTo forecast real estate prices more accurate, we combined fuzzy reasoning technique with neural network to construct
a fuzzy neural network (FNN), which has ability in fuzzy reasoning and learning. In our research, we first use our relative
real estate sample data to train the fuzzy neural network. Thereafter, we can use the exact test data to forecast real estate
price. Compared with the traditional network, FNN obtained a much better result. Thus, we give a more accurate and effective
method to forecast real estate prices.abstractrpFuzzy reasoning, Neural network, Prices predictionkeywordsrpNormally, there are two kinds of factors which will affect
the real estate price. We call them general factor
and particular factor.
The general factor is basically caused by macro social; it
will not directly affect the price of particular property.
But this kind of factor will affect the whole price trend
of real estate market. It is mainly consisted of the supply
and requirement, macroeconomic, population, social,
administration, psychology, international economy and
other accidental factors.
The particular factor is the factor which will directly
affect the price of an actual property. It is mainly consisted
of construction structure, style, level, facilities,
construction quality, public area, direction, floors, environments,
location and exchange status. The two most
crucial factors are location and environments.
In general, the affection on real estate price of mentioned
above factors is very complicated and uncertain. It is very
difficult to confirm which affection is the most crucial
one. Nowadays we usually depend on pricing persons
who have long term accumulated experience to decide.
The prediction of real estate prices is just the estimation
of the future price level. The quantitative estimation and
analyze is a very important reference on real estate investment.introductionrpCombined fuzzy reasoning technique with neural network,
we can establish FNN system which has fuzzy
reasoning and learning capability to forecast real estate
prices. In our experience, we train FNN with properties
sample data at first, and then forecast the price with actual
test data. Compared with traditional BPNN, FNN
402
has achieved better reasoning result. Thus we have a
kind of more accurate and efficient method to predict
real estate price.
FNN can availably contain special “if-then” regulation,
and this make neural network have better self-adapted
and extension ability. Therefore, FNN can get more satisfactory
result in real estate prices prediction, although
it has varying factors, uncertain and extraordinary problems.conclusionrp[1] Zhang L Y, Yan P F. Fuzzy Network and Fuzzy Control.
Beijing: Qinghua University, 2000.
[2] Zhang G L, Zeng J, Ke X Z, Deng F L. Fuzzy Control and
MATLAB Application. Xian: Xian communication University
Press, 2000.
[3] Wang W. Artificial Neural Network Principle – Introduction
and Application. Beijing: Beijing Aviation and Space University,
1995.
[4] Yu H J, Cheng C Z, Zhang S, Zhou J N. Intelligent Diagnosis
Based On Neural Network. Beijing: Metallurgy Industry
Press, 2002.
[5] Shi Q X, Hua J. Market Prediction Research Based On Neural
Network BP Arithmetic. Chongqing Technology and
Business University Transaction (Natural Science Edition),
2004.
[6] Xing M H, Chen X G, Wang Y. Applied FNN to Predict Oil
Field Yield. Computer Imitation, Feb. 2005.
[7] Tang L B, Liao F Y, Luo J. Application of FNN in Share
Price Prediction, Feb. 2004.referencesrp