LEXICAL ANALYSIS TO EFFECTIVELY DETECT
USERS’ OPINIONtitlerpIn this paper we present a lexical approach that will identify opinion of web users popularly expressed
using short words or sms words. These words are pretty popular with diverse web users and are used for
expressing their opinion on the web. The study of opinion from web arises to know the diverse opinion of
web users. The opinion expressed by web users may be on diverse topics such as politics, sports, products,
movies etc. These opinions will be very useful to others such as, leaders of political parties, selection
committees of various sports, business analysts and other stake holders of products, directors and
producers of movies as well as to the other concerned web users. We use semantic based approach to find
users opinion from short words or sms words apart of regular opinionated phrases. Our approach
efficiently detects opinion from opinionated texts using lexical analysis and is found to be better than the
other approaches on different data sets.abstractrpArtificial Intelligence, Sentiment Analysis, Opinion MiningkeywordsrpShort words also known as SMS language [8] [9] [10] are quite popular with web users. There are
many arguments [8] [9] and counter arguments [10] about its use in communication and its
impact on linguistic development of future generations. We believe these short words continue to
exist and would conceal facts and opinions important to others. For example, word like excellent
is written in short words as xllent, xlent etc., the use of short words are found to be very popular
as it conveys message at less time. The limitation is that there are no standards for short words,
making it very difficult for processing. A few web users use one or more short words in their
communication and opinionated text are no exceptions. Following are the examples of
opinionated text with regular and short opinionated words collected from opinionated site review
centre and retained in same form.
Example 1 Well it is one of the most exciting phones to ever come out. I do think it might be
behind the times compared to older phones from Nokia like the N95 etc but it is still a nice phone.
Example 2 A gr8 TV for the dollar. Samsung has designed and produced a 5n TV. The picture
quality is xllent with analog and high definition signal. Sound quality is gud to xllent. It has a
wide angle of picture side vision. It is a very compact design for a TV of this size. Instructions are
very xllent with simple set-up.Example 1 conveys opinion of a web user with regular opinionated words. Similarly, example 2
conveys opinion of a web user using regular and short opinionated words. The words in bold
represent regular opinionated words, those that are bold and underlined represent short
opinionated words. The afore used short words like gr8, 5n, gud, xllent are commonly used to
represent regular words great, fine, good and excellent.
In this paper, we focus on detecting opinions expressed by web users using short and regular
opinion words only on products. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2
we give a brief description of related work. Then, in Section 3, we discuss our methodology. In
Section 4, the experimental results are discussed. Conclusion is discussed in Section 5.introductionrpWe have discussed the use of different extraction patterns to detect opinion from opinionated
texts consisting of normal and short opinionated words. We have achieved a better accuracy with
patterns listed in Table 1 and 2 on both Data set 1 and Data set 2. An increased accuracy of 2.1 %,
0.66% and 2.11% is obtained with patterns listed in Table 2 as compared to patterns listed in
Table 1, using only adjective and using pattern mentioned in [5] on Data set 1. We obtain a better
accuracy for patterns listed in Table 1 as against other approaches on Data set 2. An increased
accuracy of 0.47%, 10.37% and 13.62% is obtained with patterns listed in Table 1 as compared to
patterns listed in Table 2, using only adjective and using pattern mentioned in [5] on Data set 2. A
combined list of patterns from Table 1 and 2 obtained accuracy similar to patterns listed in Table
1 on Data set 2. But, they can be used to capture effectively user opinion spanning different parts
of speech as well as opinionated phrases consisting of normal and short phrases.conclusionrp1. Andrea, Esuli, Fabrizio, Sebastiani: Determining term subjectivity and term orientation for opinion
mining. In: Proceedings of 11th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics. Trento, Italy (2006)
2. Alistair, Kennedy, Diana, Inkpen: Sentiment Classification of Movie and Product Reviews Using
Contextual Valence Shifters. In: Proceedings of FINEXIN 2005, Workshop on the Analysis of
Informal and Formal Information Exchange during Negotiations. Canada (2005)
3. Anil, kumar, K.M., Suresha: Identifying Subjective Phrases From Opinionated Texts Using Sentiment
Product Lexicon. International Journal of Advanced Engineering & Applications. 2, 63-271 (2010)
4. Anil, Kumar, K.M., Suresha: Detection of Neutral Phrases and Polarity Shifting of Few Phrases for
Effective Classification of Opinionated Texts. International Journal of Computational Intelligence
Research. 6, 43-58 (2010)
5. Anil, Kumar, K.M., Suresha: Detection of Web Users’ Opinion from Normal and Short Opinionated
Words. In Proc: International Conference on Data Engineering and Management, Bishop Heber
College(Autonomous), July 29-31 (2010)
6. Bing, Liu, Minqing, Hu, Junsheng, Cheng: Opinion Observer: Analyzing and Comparing Opinions on
the Web. Chiba, Japan (2005)
7. Hugo:MontyLingua: An end-to-end natural language processor with common sense (2003)
8. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-483511/ -h8-txt-msgs-How-texting-wrecking-language.html.
9. http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk news /education/2197173.stm
10. http://entertainment.timesonline.co.uk/tol /arts and entertainment/books/nonfiction/
article4356458.ece
11. Jaap, Kamps, Maarten, Marx, Robert, J., Mokken, Maarten, De, Rijke: Using wordnet to measure
semantic orientation of adjectives. In: Proceedings of 4th International Conference on Language
Resources and Evaluation, pp. 1115-1118. Lisbon, Portugal (2004)
12. Livia, Polanyi, Annie, Zaenen: Contextual Valence Shifters. Computing Attitude and Affect in Text:
Theory and Applications, pp. 1-10. (2006)referencesrp