Cloud Computing and Big Data Analytics: What Is New
from Databases PerspectivetitlerpMany industries, such as telecom, health care, retail, pharmaceutical,
financial services, etc., generate large amounts of data. Gaining critical business
insights by querying and analyzing such massive amounts of data is becoming
the need of the hour. The warehouses and solutions built around them are unable
to provide reasonable response times in handling expanding data volumes.
One can either perform analytics on big volume once in days or one can perform
transactions on small amounts of data in seconds. With the new requirements,
one needs to ensure the real-time or near real-time response for huge
amount of data. In this paper we outline challenges in analyzing big data
for both data at rest as well as data in motion. For big data at rest we describe
two kinds of systems: (1) NoSQL systems for interactive data serving environments;
and (2) systems for large scale analytics based on MapReduce paradigm,
such as Hadoop, The NoSQL systems are designed to have a simpler key-value
based data model having in-built sharding, hence, these work seamlessly
in a distributed cloud based environment. In contrast, one can use Hadoop
based systems to run long running decision support and analytical queries
consuming and possible producing bulk data. For processing data in motion,
we present use-cases and illustrative algorithms of data stream management
system (DSMS). We also illustrate applications which can use these two kinds
of systems to quickly process massive amount of data.abstractrp keywordsrpRecent financial crisis has changed the way businesses think about their finances.
Organizations are actively seeking simpler, lower cost and faster to market alternatives
about everything. Clouds are cheap and allow businesses to off-load computing
tasks while saving IT costs and resources. In cloud computing applications, data, platform,
and other resources are provided to users as services delivered over the network.
The cloud computing enables self-service with no or little vendor intervention.
It provides a utility model of resources where businesses only pay for their usage. As
these resources are shared across a large number of users, cost of computing is much
lower compared to dedicated resource provisioning.
Many industries, such as telecom, health care, retail, pharmaceutical, financial services,
etc., generate large amounts of data. For instance, in 2010, Facebook had 21
Peta Bytes of internal warehouse data with 12 TB new data added every day and 800 TB compressed data scanned daily [12]. These data have: large volume, an Indian
Telecom company generates more than 1 Terabyte of call detail records (CDRs) daily;
high velocity, twitter needs to handle 4.5 Terabytes of video uploads in real-time
per day; wide variety, structured data (e.g., call detail records in a telecom company),
semi-structured data (e.g., graph data), unstructured data (e.g., product reviews on
twitter ), which needs to be integrated together; and data to be integrated have different
veracity, data needs to cleaned before it can be integrated. Gaining critical business
insights by querying and analyzing such massive amounts of data is becoming
the need of the hour.
Traditionally, data warehouses have been used to manage the large amount of data.
The warehouses and solutions built around them are unable to provide reasonable
response times in handling expanding data volumes. One can either perform analytics
on big volume once in days or one can perform transactions on small amounts of data
in seconds. With the new requirements, one needs to ensure the real-time or near realtime
response for huge amount of data. The 4V’s of big data – volume, velocity, variety
and veracity—makes the data management and analytics challenging for the
traditional data warehouses. Big data can be defined as data that exceeds the
processing capacity of conventional database systems. It implies that the data count is
too large, and/or data values change too fast, and/or it does not follow the rules of
conventional database management systems (e.g., consistency). One requires new
expertise in the areas of data management and systems management who understands
how to model the data and prepare them for analysis, and understand the problem
deeply enough to perform the analytics. As data is massive and/or fast changing we
need comparatively many more CPU and memory resources, which are provided by
distributed processors and storage in cloud settings. The aim of this paper is to outline
the concepts and issues involved in new age data management, with suggestions for
further readings to augment the contents of this paper. Here is the outline of this paper:
in the next section, we describe the factors which are important for enterprises to
have cloud based data analytics solutions. As shown in Figure 1, big data processing
involves interactive processing and decision support processing of data-at-rest and
real-time processing of data-in-motion, which are covered in Section 3, 4, and 5, respectively.
For each data processing application, one may need to write custom code
to carry out the required processing. To avoid writing custom code for data
processing applications, various SQL like query languages have been developed. We
discuss these languages in Section 6. Section 7 summarizes some enterprise applications
which illustrate the issues one needs to consider for designing big data applications.
Specifically, we consider applications in telecom, financial services, and sensor
domains. We conclude by outlining various research challenges in data management
over cloud in Section 8.introductionrpWe presented the need for processing large amount of data having high variety and
veracity at high speed; different technologies for distributed processing such as
NoSQL, Hadoop, Streaming data processing; Pig, Jaql, Hive, CQL, SPL for querying
such data; and customer use cases. There are various advantages in moving to cloud
resources from dedicated resources for data management. But some of the enterprises
and governments are still skeptical about moving to cloud. More work is required for
cloud security, privacy and isolation areas to alleviate these fears. As noted earlier
various applications involve huge amount of data and may require real time
processing, one needs tools for bulk processing of huge amount of data, real time
processing of streaming data and method of interaction between these two modules.
For given cloud resources one needs to associate required resources for both the modules
(bulk and stream data processing) so that the whole system can provide the required
response time with sufficient accuracy. More research is required for facilitating
such systems.conclusionrp1. Avizienis, A.: Basic concepts and taxonomy of dependable and secure computing. IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (2004)
2. Srivastava, A., Kundu, A., Sural, S., Majumdar, A.: Credit Card Fraud Detection using
Hidden Markov Model. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (2008)
3. Stewart, R.J., Trinder, P.W., Loidl, H.-W.: Comparing High Level MapReduce Query
Languages. In: Temam, O., Yew, P.-C., Zang, B. (eds.) APPT 2011. LNCS, vol. 6965, pp.
58–72. Springer, Heidelberg (2011)
4. Apache Foundation. Hadoop, http://hadoop.apache.org/core/
5. Awadallah, A.: Hadoop: An Industry Perspective. In: International Workshop on Massive
Data Analytics Over Cloud (2010) (keynote talk)
6. Dean, J., Ghemawat, S.: MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters.
Communications of ACM 51(1), 107–113 (2008)
7. Hive- Hadoop wiki, http://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/Hive
8. JSON, http://www.json.org
9. Gupta, R., Gupta, H., Nambiar, U., Mohania, M.: Enabling Active Archival Over Cloud.
In: Proceedings of Service Computing Conference, SCC (2012)
10. Stonebraker, M., et al.: C-STORE: A Column-oriented DBMS. In: Proceedings of Very
Large Databases, VLDB (2005)
11. Vardi, M.: The Universal-Relation Data Model for Logical Independence. IEEE Software
5(2) (1988)
12. Borthakur, D., Jan, N., Sharma, J., Murthy, R., Liu, H.: Data Warehousing and Analytics
Infrastructure at Facebook. In: Proceedings of ACM International Conference on Management
of Data, SIGMOD (2010)
13. Jaql Project hosting, http://code.google.com/p/jaql/14. Beyer, K.S., Ercegovac, V., Gemulla, R., Balmin, A., Eltabakh, M., Kanne, C.-C., Ozcan,
F., Shekita, E.J.: Jaql: A Scripting Language for Large Scale Semi-structured Data Analysis.
In: Proceedings of Very Large Databases, VLDB (2011)
15. Liveland: Hive vs. Pig,
http://www.larsgeorge.com/2009/10/hive-vs-pig.html
16. Pig, http://hadoop.apache.org/pig/
17. Olston, C., Reed, B., Srivastava, U., Kumar, R., Tomkins, A.: Pig-Latin: A Not-So-
Foreign Language for Data Processing. In: Proceedings of ACM International Conference
on Management of Data, SIGMOD (2008)
18. HBase, http://hbase.apache.org/
19. Curino, C., Jones, E.P.C., Popa, R.A., Malviya, N., Wu, E., Madden, S., Balakrishnan, H.,
Zeldovich, N.: Realtional Cloud: A Database-as-a-Service for the Cloud. In: Proceedings
of Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research, CIDR (2011)
20. Thusoo, A., Sarma, J.S., Jain, N., Shao, Z., Chakka, P., Zhang, N., Anthony, S., Liu, H.,
Murthy, R.: Hive – A Petabyte Scake Data Warehouse Using Hadoop. In: Proceedings of
International Conference on Data Engineering, ICDE (2010)
21. Arasu, A., Babu, S., Widom, J.: The CQL Continuous Query Language: Semantic Foundations
and Query Execution. VLDB Journal (2005)
22. Zikopoulos, P., Eaton, C., Deroos, D., Deutsch, T., Lapis, G.: Understanding Big Data:
Analytics for Enterprise Class Hadoop and Streaming Data. McGrawHill (2012)
23. Gedik, B., Andrade, H., Wu, K.-L., Yu, P.S., Doo, M.: SPADE: The System S Declaratve
Stream Processing Engine. In: Proceedings of ACM International Conference on Management
of Data, SIGMOD (2008)
24. Bouillet, E., Kothari, R., Kumar, V., Mignet, L., et al.: Processing 6 billion CDRs/day:
from research to production (experience report). In: Proceedings of International Conference
on Distributed Event-Based Systems, DEBS (2012)
25. Kai, http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/kai
26. Fox, A., Gribble, S.D., Chawathe, Y., Brewer, E.A., Gauthier, P.: Cluster-Based Scalable
Network Services. In: Proceedings of the Sixteenth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems
Principles, SOSP (1997)
27. Wada, H., Fekede, A., Zhao, L., Lee, K., Liu, A.: Data Consistency Properties and the
Trade-offs in Commercial Cloud Storages: the Consumers’ Perspective. In: Proceedings of
Conference on Innovative Data Systems Research, CIDR (2011)
28. Gray, J., Helland, P., O’Neil, P.E., Shasha, D.: The Dangers of Replication and a Solution.
In: Proceedings of ACM International Conference on Management of Data (1996)
29. DeCandia, G., Hastorun, D., Jampani, M., Kakulapati, G., Lakshman, A., Pilch, A., Sivasubramanian,
S., Vosshall, P., Vogels, W.: Dynamo: Amazon’s Highly Available Keyvalue
Store. In: Proceedings of Twenty-First ACM SIGOPS Symposium on Operating
Systems Principles, SOSP (2007)
30. Habeeb, M.: A Developer’s Guide to Amazon SimpleDB. Pearson Education
31. Lehnardt, J., Anderson, J.C., Slater, N.: CouchDB: The Definitive Guide. O’Reilly (2010)
32. Chodorow, K., Dirolf, M.: MongoDB: The Definitive Guide. O’Reilly Media, USA (2010)
33. Chang, F., Dean, J., Ghemawat, S., Hsieh, W.C., Wallach, D.A., Burrows, M., Chandra,
T., Fikes, A., Gruber, R.E.: BigTable: A Distributed Storage System for Structured Data.
In: Proceedings of the 7th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design annd
Implementation, OSDI (2006)34. Storm: The Hadoop of Stream processing, http://fierydata.com/
2012/03/29/storm-the-hadoop-of-stream-processing/
35. Neumeyer, L., Robbins, B., Nair, A., Kesari, A.: S4: Distributed Stream Computing Platform.
In: IEEE International Conference on Data Mining Workshops, ICDMW (2010)
36. Biem, A., Bouillet, E., Feng, H., et al.: IBM infosphere streams for scalable, real-time, intelligent
transportation services. In: SIGMOD 2010 (2010)
37. Alon, N., Matias, Y., Szegedy, M.: The space complexity of approximating the frequency
moments. In: Proceedings of the Annual Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC
(1996)
38. Babcock, B., Babu, S., Datar, M., Motvani, R., Widom, J.: Model and Issues in Data
Streams Systems. ACM PODS (2002)referencesrp