Big Data Storage and Challenges titlerp Now days the big data has became the most
difficult problem in the Industrial ,Science ,Education sector.
Here we discussing the storage problems in these sectors. how
the data is explode in the recent years. And how we are
dealing with the massive amount of data in our sectors. We
are also focusing on the four phases of the value chain of big
data, i.e., data generation, data acquisition, data storage, and
data analysis. For each phase, we introduce the general
background, discuss the technical challenges, and
Opportunities in the big data. we have seen the massive size of
the data in industries and in the public and social sectors.
These discussions aim to provide a comprehensive overview
and big-picture to readers of this exciting area. This survey is
concluded with a discussion of open problems and future
directions .abstractrpBig data, Internet of things , Data center ,Hadoop
, Big data analysis.keywordsrpA wide range of project businesses are involved in the lifecycle
of engineer-to-order goods such as buildings. We are
awash in a flood of data today. In a broad range of
application areas, data is being collected at extraordinary
scale. Decisions that previously were based on guesswork,
or on painstakingly constructed models of reality, can now
be made based on the data itself. Such Big Data analysis
now drives nearly every aspect of our modern society,
including mobile services, retail, manufacturing, financial
services, life sciences, and physical sciences.
Scientific research has been revolutionized by Big Data.
The field of Astronomy is being transformed from one
where taking pictures of the sky was a large part of an
astronomer’s job to one where the pictures are all in a
database already and the astronomer’s task is to find
interesting objects and phenomena in the database. Imagine
a world in which we have access to a huge database where
we collect every detailed measure of every student's
academic performance. This data could be used to design
the most effective approaches to education, starting from
reading, writing, and math, to advanced, college-level,
courses. We are far from having access to such data, but
there are powerful trends in this direction. In particular,
there is a strong trend for massive Web deployment of
educational activities, and this will generate an increasingly
large amount of detailed data about students' performance.
Over the past 20 years, data has increased in a large scale in
various fields. According to a report from International
Data Corporation (IDC), in 2011, the overall created and
copied data volume in the world was 1.8ZB (˜
1021B)[1].which increased by nearly nine times within five
years. This figure will double at least every other two years
in the near future. Recently, industries become interested in
the high potential of big data, and many government
agencies announced major plans to accelerate big data
research and applications [2]. In addition, issues on big data
are often covered in public media, such as The Economist
[3, 4], New York Times [5], and National Public Radio [6,
7]. Two premier scientific journals, Nature and Science,
also opened special columns to discuss the challenges and
impacts of big data [8, 9]. The era of big data has come
beyond all doubt [10]. The capacities of the IT architectures
and infrastructure of existing enterprises, and its realtime
requirement will also greatly stress the available computing
capacity.
The increasingly growing data cause a problem of how to
store and manage such huge heterogeneous datasets with
moderate requirements on hardware and software
infrastructure. Nowadays, big data related to the service of
Internet companies grow rapidly. For example, Google
processes data of hundreds of Petabyte (PB), Facebook
generates log data of over 10 PB per month, Baidu, a
Chinese company, processes data of tens of PB, and
Taobao, a subsidiary of Alibaba generates data of tens of
Terabyte (TB) for online trading per day.introductionrpHere we have entered an era of Big Data. Through better
analysis of the large volumes of data that are becoming
available, there is the potential for making faster advances
in many scientific disciplines and improving the
profitability and success of many enterprises. we review the
background and state-of-the-art of big data. we introduce
the general background of big data and review related
technologies, such as could computing, IoT, data centers,
and Hadoop. Then we focus on the four phases of the value
chain of big data, i.e., data generation, data acquisition,
data storage, and data analysis. For each phase, we
introduce the general background, discuss the technical
challenges, and review the latest advances.conclusionrp1. Gantz J, Reinsel D (2011) Extracting value from chaos. IDC iView,
pp 1–12
2. Fact sheet: Big data across the federal government (2012). http://
www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ostp/big data fact
sheet 3 29 2012.pdf
3. Cukier K (2010) Data, data everywhere: a special report on
managing information. Economist Newspaper
4. Drowning in numbers - digital data will flood the planet- and help us
understand it better (2011). http://www.economist.com/blogs/
dailychart/2011/11/bigdata-0
5. Lohr S (2012) The age of big data. New York Times, pp 11
6. Yuki N (2011) Following digital breadcrumbs to big data
gold.http://www.npr.org/2011/11/29/142521910/thedigitalbreadcrum
bsthat-lead-to-big-data
7. Yuki N The search for analysts to make sense of big data
(2011).http://www.npr.org/2011/11/30/142893065/thesearchforanalyststo-
make-sense-of-big-data8. Big data (2008).
http://www.nature.com/news/specials/bigdata/index.html
9. Special online collection: dealing with big data (2011).
http://www.sciencemag.org/site/special/data/
10. Manyika J, McKinsey Global Institute, Chui M, Brown B,Bughin J,
Dobbs R, Roxburgh C, Byers AH (2011) Big data:the next frontier
for innovation, competition, and productivity.McKinsey Global
Institute
11. DeWitt D, Gray J (1992) Parallel database systems: the future of
high performance database systems. Commun ACM35(6):85–98
12. Walter T (2009) Teradata past, present, and future. UCI ISG lecture
series on scalable data management
13. Ghemawat S, Gobioff H, Leung S-T (2003) The google file system.
In: ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review, vol 37. ACM, pp 29–
43
14. Dean J, Ghemawat S (2008) Mapreduce: simplified data processing
on large clusters. Commun ACM 51(1):107–113
15. Labrinidis A, Jagadish HV (2012) Challenges and opportunities with
big data. Proc VLDB Endowment 5(12):2032–2033
16. Agrawal D, Bernstein P, Bertino E, Davidson S, Dayal U,
FranklinM, Gehrke J, Haas L, Halevy A, Han J et al (2012)
Challenges and opportunities with big data. A community white
paper developed by leading researches across the United States
17. Big Data: New Opportunities and New Challenges Katina Michael
university of Wollongong, Keith W. Miller university of Missouri-
St.Louis referencesrp