The anatomy of big data computing titlerp
Advances in information technology and its widespread growth in several areas of business, engineering,
medical, and scientific studies are resulting in information/data explosion. Knowledge discovery and
decision-making from such rapidly growing voluminous data are a challenging task in terms of data organization
and processing, which is an emerging trend known as big data computing, a new paradigm that
combines large-scale compute, new data-intensive techniques, and mathematical models to build data analytics.
Big data computing demands a huge storage and computing for data curation and processing that
could be delivered from on-premise or clouds infrastructures. This paper discusses the evolution of big data
computing, differences between traditional data warehousing and big data, taxonomy of big data computing
and underpinning technologies, integrated platform of big data and clouds known as big data clouds, layered
architecture and components of big data cloud, and finally open-technical challenges and future directions.
Copyright © 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.abstractrp
big data; big data computing; big data analytics as a service; big data cloud architecturekeywordsrp
Big data computing is an emerging data science paradigm of multidimensional information
mining for scientific discovery and business analytics over large-scale infrastructure. The data
collected/produced from several scientific explorations and business transactions often require
tools to facilitate efficient data management, analysis, validation, visualization, and dissemination
while preserving the intrinsic value of the data [1–5]. The IDC [6] report predicted that there could
be an increase of the digital data by 40 times from 2012 to 2020. New advancements in semiconductor
technologies are eventually leading to faster computing, large-scale storage, and faster and
powerful networks at lower prices, enabling large volumes of data preservation and utilization at
faster rate. Recent advancements in cloud computing technologies are enabling to preserve every
bit of the gathered and processed data, based on subscription models, providing high availability of
storage and computation at affordable price. Conventional data warehousing systems are based on
predetermined analytics over the abstracted data and employ cleansing and transforming into another
database known as data marts – which are periodically updated with the similar type of
rolled-up data. However, big data systems work on non predetermined analytics; hence, no need
of data cleansing and transformations procedures.Big data organizes and extracts the valued information from the rapidly growing, large volumes,
variety forms, and frequently changing data sets collected from multiple and autonomous
sources in the minimal possible time, using several statistical and machine learning techniques.
Big data is characterized by five Vs such as volume, velocity, variety, veracity, and value. Big
data and traditional data warehousing systems, however, have the similar goals to deliver business
value through the analysis of data, but they differ in the analytics methods and the organization
of the data. In practice, data warehouses organize the data in the repository, by collecting
it from other several databases like enterprise’s financial systems, customer marketing systems,
billing systems, point-of-sale systems, and so on. Warehousing systems are poor on organizing
and querying the data from the operational streaming data like click stream logs, sensor data,
location data from mobile devices, customer support emails and chat transcripts, surveillance
videos, and so on. Big data technologies overcome the weakness of the data warehousing
systems, by harnessing new sources of data, thus facilitating enterprises analyze and extract
intrinsic information through analytics. Big data technology has been gaining popularity in several
domains of business, engineering, and scientific computing areas; Philip et al. [8] presented
a survey on big data along with opportunities and challenges for data-intensive applicationsstated
several areas and the importance of big data. Chen et al. [9] presented a survey on big data
and its interrelated technologies like clouds, Internet of things, online social networks, medical
applications, collective intelligence, and smart grid. Chen et al. [10] presented the big data
technologies towards data management challenges like big data diversity, big data reduction,
integration and cleaning, indexing and query, and several tools for analysis and mining. Wu et
al. [11] presented big data processing model, from the data mining perspective. Kaiser et al.
[12] discussed several issues in big data such as storage and data transport technologies followed
by methodologies for big data analytics. Buyya et al. [13] presented a survey on big data
computing in clouds and future research directions for the development of analytics and
visualization tools in several domains of science, engineering, and business.
As business domains are growing, there is a need to converge a new economic system redefining
the relationships among producers, distributors, and consumers of goods and services. Obviously, it
is not feasible to depend on experience or pure intuition always; however, it is also essential to use
critically important data sources for decision-making. The National Institute of Standards and Technology
Big Data Public Working Group described a survey of big data architectures and framework
from the industry [14]. The several areas of big data computing are described in the succeeding
texts.
(a) Scientific explorations: The data collected from various sensors are analyzed to extract the useful
information for societal benefits. For example, physics and astronomical experiments – a
large number of scientists collaborating for designing, operating, and analyzing the products
of sensor networks and detectors for scientific studies. Earth observation systems – information
gathering and analytical approaches about earth’s physical, chemical, and biological systems
via remote-sensing technologies – to improve social and economic well-being and its applications
for weather forecasting, monitoring, and responding to natural disasters, climate change
predictions, and so on.
(b) Health care: Healthcare organizations would like to predict the locations from where the diseases
are spreading so as to prevent further spreading [15]. However, to predict exactly the origin
of the disease would not be possible, until there is statistical data from several locations. In
2009, when a new flu virus similar to H1N1 was spreading, Google has predicted this and published
a paper in the scientific journal Nature [16], by looking at what people were searching
for, on the Internet.
(c) Governance: Surveillance system analyzing and classifying streaming acoustic signals, transportation
departments using real-time traffic data to predict traffic patterns, and update public
transportation schedules. Security departments analyzing images from aerial cameras, news
feeds, and social networks or items of interest. Social program agencies gain a clearer understanding
of beneficiaries and proper payments. Tax agencies identifying fraudsters and support
investigation by analyzing complex identity information and tax returns. Sensorapplications such stream air, water, and temperature data to support cleanup, fire prevention,
and other programs.
(d) Financial and business analytics: Retaining customers and satisfying consumer expectations are
among the most serious challenges facing financial institutions. Sentiment analysis and predictive
analysis would play a key role in several fields like travel industry – for optimal cost estimations
and retail industry – products targeted for potential customers. Forecast analysis –
estimating the best price estimations and so on.
(e) Web analytics: Several websites are experiencing millions of unique visitors per day, in turn
creating a large range of content. Increasingly, companies want to be able to mine this data
to understand limitations of their sites, improve response time, offer more targeted ads, and
so on. This requires tools to perform complicated analytics on data that far exceed the memory
of a single machine or even in cluster of machines.
Service-oriented technologies also known as cloud computing are delivering compute, storage,
and software applications as services over private or public networks based on pay-as-go delivery
models [17, 18]. Cloud computing technologies becoming a reality, it is serving as a key enabler
for big data to solve data-intensive problems over a large-scale infrastructure for
information extraction. The integration of big data technologies and cloud computing read as
‘big data clouds’ is an emerging new generation data analytics platform for information mining,
knowledge discovery, and decision-making. Hence, both the technologies put together, here, we
discuss the evolution of big data technologies and compare it with traditional data warehousing
technologies along with its relationship with cloud computing technologies and infrastructure.
We also discuss the architecture and reference framework for big data computing on clouds. This
paper is intended for researchers, technical audience of both developer and designers, and general
readers who are interested in acquiring an in-depth knowledge of big data technology in information
technology.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the differences between big
data and traditional data warehousing systems in, data handling, processing, storing, extracting,
and so on followed by consistency, availability, and partition tolerance (CAP) theorem – the fundamental
principle of database system – and illustrates the Atomicity, consistency, integrity, and
durability (ACID) and basically available, soft state, and eventually consistent (BASE) properties
adopted for data warehousing (relational model) and big data models, respectively. Later, we discuss
the big data abstraction layers and compare it with the traditional data base model.
Section 3 discusses taxonomy of big data computing and presents a detailed study of several
components of the taxonomy like analytics, frameworks, technologies, programming models,
schedulers, processing tools, and so on. Section 4 illustrates an integrated platform for big data
and clouds followed by a layered architecture and its components. Here, we discuss elements of
big data cloud, layered architecture, and reference framework. Section 5 identifies open-technical
challenges, gap analysis, and future research directions in data storage/handling, specific domain
areas, new programming models, and domain-specific analytics development.introductionrp
Big data computing is an emerging platform for data analytics to address large-scale multidimensional
data for knowledge discovery and decision-making. In this paper, we have studied, characterized,
and categorized several aspects of big data computing systems. Big data technology is
evolving and changing the present traditional data bases with effective data organization, large computing,
and data workloads processing with new innovative analytics tools bundled with statistical
and machine-learning techniques. With the maturity of cloud computing technologies, big data
technologies are accelerating in several areas of business, science, and engineering to solve dataintensive
problems. We have enumerated several case studies of big data technologies in the areas
of healthcare studies, business intelligence, social networking, and scientific explorations. Further,
we focus on illustrating how big data databases differ from traditional data base and discuss BASE
properties supported by them.To understand big data paradigm, we presented taxonomy of big data computing along with discussion
on characteristics, technologies, tools, security mechanisms, data organization, scheduling
approaches, and so on along with relevant paradigms and technologies. Later, we presented under
pinning technologies for the evolution of big data and discussed how cloud computing technologies
would be utilized for infrastructure services delivery for the analytics development. Later, we
discussed an emerging big data computing platforms over clouds, big data clouds, an integrated
technology from big data and cloud computing, and delivering big data computing as a service over
large-scale clouds. The paper also discussed types of big data clouds and illustrated big data access
networks, an emerging data platform services for big data analytics.
Further on, we presented layered architecture components under each of the layers followed by
technologies to be addressed under each of the layers. We then compare some of the existing systems
in each of the areas and categorize them based on the tools and services rendered to the users.
In doing so, we have gained an insight into the architecture, strategies, and practices that are currently
followed in big data computing. Also, through our characterization and detailed study, we
are able to discover some of the short comings and identify gaps in the current architectures and
systems. These represent some of the directions that could be followed in the future. Thus, this paper
lays down a comprehensive classification framework that not only serves as a tool to understand
this emerging area but also presents a reference to which future efforts can be mapped.
To conclude, big data technologies are being adopted widely for information exploitation with
the help of new analytics tools and large-scale computing infrastructure to process huge variety
of multidimensional data in several areas ranging from business intelligence to scientific explorations.
However, more research needs to be undertaken, in several areas like data organization,
decision-making, domain-specific tools, and platform tools to create next generation big data infrastructure
for enabling users to extract maximum utility out of the large volumes of available information
and data.conclusionrp
1. Dean J, Ghemawat S. MapReduce: simplified data processing on large cluster. Communications of the ACM 2008;
51(1): 107–113.
2. Chervenak A, Foster I, Kesselman C, Salisbury C, Tuecke S. The data grid: towards an architecture for the distributed
management and analysis of large scientific datasets. Journal of Network and Computer Applications 2000;
23(3): 187–200.
3. Janaki A, KubachT, Loffer M, Schmid U. Data driven management: bringing more science into management,
White Paper, McKinsey Technology Initiative Perspective, 2008. http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/
business_technology/big_data_the_next_frontier_for_innovation [last accessed 30 November 2014].
4. CRA (Computing Research Association), Challenges and opportunities with big data, http://www.cra.org/ccc/files/
docs/init/bigdatawhitepaper.pdf [last accessed 12 November 2014].
5. Advancing discovery in science and engineering, the role of basic computing research, http://www.cra.org/ccc/files/
docs/Natl_Priorities/web_data_spring.pdf [last accessed 10 August 2014].
6. IDC, The digital universe in 2020: big data, bigger digital shadows, and biggest growth in the Far East, www.emc.
com/leadership/digital-universe/index.htm [last accessed 20 November 2014].
7. Apache Hadoop, http://hadoop.apache.org [last accessed 15 October 2014].
8. Chen C.L.P, Zhang C Y. Data-intensive applications, challenges, techniques and technologies: a survey on big data,
Inform.Sci, DOI: 10.1016/j.ins.2014.01.015.
9. Chen M, Mao S, Liu Y. Big data survey. Mobile Networks and Applications 2014; 19(2): 171–209.
10. Chen J, Chen Y, Du X, Li C, Lu J, Zhao S, Zhou X. Big data challenge: a data management perspective. Frontiers of
Computer Science 2013; 7(2): 157–164.
11. Wu X, Zhu X, Wu GQ, Ding W. Data mining with big data. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering
2014; 26(1): 97–107.12. Kaisler S, Armour F, Espinosa J.A and Money W. Big data: issues and challenges moving forward, in: Proceedings
of the 46th IEEE Annual Hawaii international Conference on System Sciences (HICC 2013), Grand Wailea, Maui,
Hawaii, January 2013, pp. 995–1004.
13. Assuncao MD, Calheiros RN, Bianchi S, Netto M, Buyya R. Big data computing and clouds: trends and future directions.
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing (JPDC) 2015; 79(5): 3–15.
14. Survey of big data architectures and framework from the industry, NIST big data public working group, 2014. http://
jtc1bigdatasg.nist.gov/_workshop2/07_NBD-PWD_Big_Data_Architectures_Survey.pdf, 2014 [last accessed 30
April 2014].
15. Mayer VV, Cukier K. Big Data: A Revolution That Will Transform How We Live, Work and Think. John Murray
Press: UK, 2013.
16. Ginsberg J. Detecting influenza epidemics using search engine query data. Nature 2009; 457: 1012–1014.
17. Buyya R, Shin Yeo C, Venugopal S, Brobergand J, Brandic I. Cloud computing and emerging IT platforms: vision, hype,
and reality for delivering computing as the 5th utility. Future Generation Computer Systems 2009; 25(6): 599–616.
18. Broberg J, Venugopal S, Buyya R. Market oriented grids and utility computing: the state-of-the art and future directions.
Journal of Grid Computing 2008; 6(3): 255–276.
19. Inmon WH. Building the Data Warehouse 4th edition. Wiley publishing Inc.: Indianapolis, 2005.
20. Eric A. Brewer, Towards robust distributed systems, keynote speech in 19th ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed
Computing (PODC 2000), Portland, Oregon, July 2000.
21. Gray J. The transaction concept: virtues and limitations, in: Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Very
Large Databases (VLDB’ 81) 7 (1981) 144–154.
22. Pritchett D. BASE: an ACID alternative. Queue Object Relational Mapping 2008; 6(3): 48–55.
23. Harder T, Reuter A. Principles of transaction-oriented database recovery. ACM Computing Surveys 1983; 15(4): 287–317.
24. Cooper M, Mell P. Tackling big data, NIST information technology laboratory computer security division, http://
csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/forum/documents/june2012presentations/fcsm_june2012_cooper_mell.pdf [last accessed
15 September 2014].
25. A very short history of data science, http://whatsthebigdata.com/2012/04/26/a-very-short-history-of-data-science
[last accessed 15 September 2014].
26. In-memory analytics, leveraging emerging technologies for business intelligence, Gartner Report, 2009.
27. Apache Spark, https://spark.incubator.apache.org [last accessed 03 April 2014].
28. Apache storm, http://storm.incubator.apache.org [last accessed 03 April 2014].
29. S4: distributed stream computing platform, http://incubator.apache.org/s4 [last accessed 20 November 2014].
30. Google big query, https://cloud.google.com/bigquery-tour [last accessed 15 January 2015].
31. Chang F, Dean J, Ghemawat S, Heish W. C., Wallach D. A, Burrows M, Chandra T, Fikes A, Gruber R. E. Big
table: a distributed storage system for structured data, in: Proceedings of the 7th USENIX Symposium on Operating
Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 2006), Seattle, WA, Nov 2006.
32. Decandia G, Hastorun D, Jampani M, Kakulapati G, Lakshman A, Pilchin A, Sivasubramanian S, Vosshall P,
Vogels W. Dynamo: Amazon’s highly available key-value store, in: Proceedings of the 21st ACM Symposium
on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP 2007), Stevenson, Washington, USA, Oct 2007.
33. Amazon elastic MapReduce, developer guide, 2015, http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ElasticMapReduce/latest/DeveloperGuide/emr-dg.pdf
[last accessed 1 November 2014].
34. Chauhan A, Fontama V, Hart M, Hyong W, Woody B. Introducing Microsoft Azure HDInsight, Technical Overview.
Microsoft press: One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington, 2014.
35. Rack space, www.rackspace.com [last accessed 22 August 2014].
36. Horton Hadoop, http://hortonworks.com [last accessed 22 August 2014].
37. Cloudera Hadoop, http://www.cloudera.com [last accessed 03 September 2014].
38. Oracle Berkeley DB, Oracle data sheet, http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/products/berkeleydb/berkeley-dbdatasheet-132390.pdf
[last accessed 03 September 2014].
39. Buyya R, Vecchiola C, Selvi T. Mastering in Cloud Computing – Foundations and Applications Programming.
Morgan Kaufman: USA, 2013.
40. Apache couch DB, a database for the web, www.couchdb.apache.org [last accessed 10 September 2014].
41. MongoDB operations best practices, http://info.10gen.com/rs/10gen/images/10gen-MongoDB_Operations_Best_Practices.pdf.
42. Apache HBase, http://hbase.apache.org [last accessed 20 December 2014].
43. InfiniteGraph: the distributed graph database, a performance and distributed performance benchmark of InfiniteGraph and a
leading open source graph database using synthetic data, infinite graph, white paper from objectivity, http://www.objectivity.com/wp-content/uploads/Objectivity_WP_IG_Distr_Benchmark.pdf,
2012 [last accessed 20 December 2014].
44. Neo4j graph database, http://www.neo4j.org [last accessed 20 December 2014].
45. Aggarwal CC, Zhai C. Probabilistic Models for Text Mining: In Mining Text Data. Kluwer Academic Publishers:
Netherlands, 2012: 257–294.
46. Nyce C. Predictive analytics white paper, American Institute for CPCU/Insurance Institute of America, http://www.
theinstitutes.org/doc/predictivemodelingwhitepaper.pdf, 2007 [last accessed 30 January 2015].
47. Apache MapReduce, http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/stable/mapred_tutorial.html [last accessed 20 February 2015].
48. Apache Mahout, scalable machine learning library, http://mahout.apache.org [last accessed 20 February 2015].
49. Capacity scheduler, http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.2.1/capacity_scheduler.pdf [last accessed 20 February 2015].
50. Fair scheduler, http://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.2.1/fair_scheduler.pdf [last accessed 20 February 2015].51. Google-gdata, .NET library for the Google data API, http://code.google.com/p/google-gdata [last accessed 20
February 2015].
52. Cloud infrastructure management interface (CIMI) model and RESTful HTTP based protocol – an interface for managing
cloud infrastructure, http://dmtf.sites/default/files/standards/documents/DSP0263_1.0.1.pdf [last accessed 13
February 2015].
53. Big data replication, www.tervela.com/big-data-replication [last accessed 20 March 2015].
54. Condie T, Conway N, Alvaro P, Hellerstein J, Elmeleegy K, Sears R. MapReduce online, in: Proceedings of the 7th
USENIX on Networked systems design and implementation (NSDI 2010), San Jose, California, April 2010.
55. Karlof H, Suri S, Vassilvitskii S. A model of computation for MapReduce, in: Proceedings of the 21st ACM-SIAM
Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA 2010), Austin, Texas, January 2010.
56. Afrati F, Sarma A, Salihoglu S, Ullman J. Vision paper: towards an understanding of the limits of Map-Reduce computation,
arxiv.org/abs/1204.1754 [last accessed 09 December 2014].
57. Ekanayake J, Li H, Zhang B, Gunarathne T, Bae S. H, Qiu J, Fox G.
Twister: a runtime for iterative MapReduce, in: Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Symposium on High
Performance Distributed Computing (HPDC 2010), Chicago, Illinois, June 2010.
58. Bhatotia P, Wieder A, Akkus I, Rodrigues R, Acar U. Large-scale incremental data processing with change propagation,
in: Proceedings of the 3rd USENIX Workshop on Hot topics in Cloud computing (HotCloud 2011),
Portland, June 2011.
59. Bu Y, Howe B, Balazinska M, Ernst M. HaLoop: efficient iterative data processing on large cluster, in: Proceedings
of the 36th International Conference on Very Large Databases (VLDB 2010), Singapore, September 2010.
60. Zhang Y, Gao Q, Gao L, Wang C. PrIter: a distributed framework for prioritized iterative computations, in: Proceedings
of the 2nd ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing (SoCC 2011), Cascais, Portugal, October 2011.
61. Lin J. MapReduce is good enough? If all you have is a hammer, throw away everything that’s not a nail!, http://
arxiv.org/pdf/1209.2191v1.pdf [last accessed 02 March 2015].
62. Raghavendra K, Chaudhri A, Kumar K.P, Varadan G. High performance private cloud for satellite data processing –
engineering in cloud, in: Proceedings of the 1st International Conference on Advances in Cloud Computing (ACC
2012), Bangalore, India, July 2012.
63. Raghavendra K, Akilan A, Ravi K, Kumar K.P, Varadan G. Satellite data product generation on Aneka .NET cloud,
research product demonstration, Presented at the 10th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and
Grid Computing (CCGrid 2010), Melbourne, Australia, May 2010.
64. Radhadevi PV, Solanki SS. In-flight geometric calibration of different cameras of IRS-P6 using a physical sensor
model. The Photogrammetric Record 2008; 23(121): 69–89.
65. Deepak P, Kumar K. P, Varadan G. A service oriented utility grid for data parallel remote sensing applications, in:
Proceedings of 2009 High Performance Computing & Simulation (HPCS 2009) in conjunction with International
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing Conference (IWCMC 2009), Leipzig, Germany, June 2009,
pp. 131–137.
66. Deepak P, Kumar K. P, Varadan G. Service oriented utility grid for 3-dimensional topographic visualization from
satellite images, in: Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on eScience, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA,
Dec 2008, pp. 47–54.
67. Lee JG, Kang M. Geospatial big data: challenges and opportunities. Big Data Research 2015; 2(2): 74–81.
68. Jardak C, Mahonen P, Riihiajariv J. Spatial big data and wireless networks: experiences, applications, and research
challenges. IEEE Network 2014; 28(4): 26–31.
69. How big data impacts health care, Harvard business review, https://hbr.org/resources/pdfs/comm/sap/
18826_HBR_SAP_Healthcare_Aug_2014.pdf, 2014. [last accessed 03 March 2015].
70. Catanese S. A, Meo P. D, Ferrara E, Flumara G, Provetti A. Crawling Facebook for social network analysis purposes,
in: Proceedings of 1st International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics (WIMS’11),
Sogndal, Norway, May 2011.
71. Berger P, Hennig P, Klingbeil T, Kohnen M, Pade S, Meinel C. Mining the boundaries of social networks: crawling
Facebook and Twitter for blog intelligence, in: Proceedings of 12th annual conference on Information and Knowledge
Engineering (IKE’ 13), Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, July 2013.
72. John A. R.A. Fisher and the making of maximum likelihood 1912–1922. Statistical Science 1997; 12(3): 162–176
referencesrp