ISSUES, CHALLENGES, AND SOLUTIONS:
BIG DATA MINING titlerpData has become an indispensable part of every economy, industry, organization, business
function and individual. Big Data is a term used to identify the datasets that whose size is
beyond the ability of typical database software tools to store, manage and analyze. The Big
Data introduce unique computational and statistical challenges, including scalability and
storage bottleneck, noise accumulation, spurious correlation and measurement errors. These
challenges are distinguished and require new computational and statistical paradigm. This
paper presents the literature review about the Big data Mining and the issues and challenges
with emphasis on the distinguished features of Big Data. It also discusses some methods to deal
with big data.abstractrpBig data mining, Security, Hadoop, MapReducekeywordsrpData is the collection of values and variables related in some sense and differing in some other
sense. In recent years the sizes of databases have increased rapidly. This has lead to a growing
interest in the development of tools capable in the automatic extraction of knowledge from data
[1]. Data are collected and analyzed to create information suitable for making decisions. Hence
data provide a rich resource for knowledge discovery and decision support. A database is an
organized collection of data so that it can easily be accessed, managed, and updated. Data mining
is the process discovering interesting knowledge such as associations, patterns, changes,
anomalies and significant structures from large amounts of data stored in databases, data
warehouses or other information repositories. A widely accepted formal definition of data mining
is given subsequently. According to this definition, data mining is the non-trivial extraction of
implicit previously unknown and potentially useful information about data [2]. Data mining
uncovers interesting patterns and relationships hidden in a large volume of raw data. Big Data is a
new term used to identify the datasets that are of large size and have grater complexity [3]. So we
cannot store, manage and analyze them with our current methodologies or data mining software
tools. Big data is a heterogeneous collection of both structured and unstructured data. Businesses
are mainly concerned with managing unstructured data. Big Data mining is the capability of extracting useful information from these large datasets or streams of data which were not possible
before due to its volume, variety, and velocity.
The extracted knowledge is very useful and the mined knowledge is the representation of
different types of patterns and each pattern corresponds to knowledge. Data Mining is analysing
the data from different perspectives and summarizing it into useful information that can be used
for business solutions and predicting the future trends. Mining the information helps
organizations to make knowledge driven decisions. Data mining (DM), also called Knowledge
Discovery in Databases (KDD) or Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, is the process of
searching large volumes of data automatically for patterns such as association rules [4]. It applies
many computational techniques from statistics, information retrieval, machine learning and
pattern recognition. Data mining extract only required patterns from the database in a short time
span. Based on the type of patterns to be mined, data mining tasks can be classified into
summarization, classification, clustering, association and trends analysis [4].
Enormous amount of data are generated every minute. A recent study estimated that every
minute, Google receives over 4 million queries, e-mail users send over 200 million messages,
YouTube users upload 72 hours of video, Facebook users share over 2 million pieces of content,
and Twitter users generate 277,000 tweets [5]. With the amount of data growing exponentially,
improved analysis is required to extract information that best matches user interests. Big data
refers to rapidly growing datasets with sizes beyond the capability of traditional data base tools to
store, manage and analyse them. Big data is a heterogeneous collection of both structured and
unstructured data. Increase of storage capacities, Increase of processing power and availability of
data are the main reason for the appearance and growth of big data. Big data refers to the use of
large data sets to handle the collection or reporting of data that serves businesses or other
recipients in decision making. The data may be enterprise specific or general and private or
public. Big data are characterized by 3 V’s: Volume, Velocity, and Variety [6].
Volume -the size of data now is larger than terabytes and peta bytes. The large scale and rise of
size makes it difficult to store and analyse using traditional tools.
Velocity – big data should be used to mine large amount of data within a pre defined period of
time. The traditional methods of mining may take huge time to mine such a volume of data.
Variety – Big data comes from a variety of sources which includes both structured and
unstructured data. Traditional database systems were designed to address smaller volumes of
structured and consistent data whereas Big Data is geospatial data, 3D data, audio and video, and
unstructured text, including log files and social media. This heterogeneity of unstructured data
creates problems for storage, mining and analyzing the data.
Big Data mining refers to the activity of going through big data sets to look for relevant
information. Big data samples are available in astronomy, atmospheric science, social
networking sites, life sciences, medical science, government data, natural disaster and resource
management, web logs, mobile phones, sensor networks, scientific research, telecommunications
[7]. Two main goals of high dimensional data analysis are to develop effective methods that can
accurately predict the future observations and at the same time to gain insight into the relationship
between the features and response for scientific purposes. Big data have applications in many
fields such as Business, Technology, Health, Smart cities etc. These applications will allow people to have better services, better customer experiences, and also to prevent and detect illness
much easier than before [8].
The rapid development of Internet and mobile technologies has an important role in the growth of
data creation and storage. Since the amount of data is growing exponentially, improved analysis
of large data sets is required to extract information that best matches user interests. New
technologies are required to store unstructured large data sets and processing methods such as
Hadoop and Map Reduce have greater importance in big data analysis. To process large volumes
of data from different sources quickly, Hadoop is used. Hadoop is a free, Java-based
programming framework that supports the processing of large data sets in a distributed computing
environment. It allows running applications on systems with thousands of nodes with thousands
of terabytes of data. Its distributed file system supports fast data transfer rates among nodes and
allows the system to continue operating uninterrupted at times of node failure. It runs Map
Reduce for distributed data processing and is works with structured and unstructured data [6].
This paper is organized as follows. Section 1 gives introduction and Section 2 presents literature
review. Section 3 presents the issues and challenges of big data mining. Section 4 provides an
overview of security and privacy challenges of big data and Section 5 describes some
technologies to deal with big data analysis. Section 6 concludes this paper with summaries.introductionrpThe amounts of data is growing exponentially worldwide due to the explosion of social
networking sites, search and retrieval engines, media sharing sites, stock trading sites, news
sources and so on. Big Data is becoming the new area for scientific data research and for
business applications. Big data analysis is becoming indispensable for automatic discovering of
intelligence that is involved in the frequently occurring patterns and hidden rules. Big data
analysis helps companies to take better decisions, to predict and identify changes and to identify
new opportunities. In this paper we discussed about the issues and challenges related to big data
mining and also Big Data analysis tools like Map Reduce over Hadoop and HDFS which helps
organizations to better understand their customers and the marketplace and to take better
decisions and also helps researchers and scientists to extract useful knowledge out of Big data. In
addition to that we introduce some big data mining tools and how to extract a significant
knowledge from the Big Data. That will help the research scholars to choose the best mining tool
for their work.conclusionrp[1] Julie M. David, Kannan Balakrishnan, (2011), Prediction of Key Symptoms of Learning Disabilities
in School-Age Children using Rough Sets, Int. J. of Computer and Electrical Engineering, Hong
Kong, 3(1), pp163-169
[2] Julie M. David, Kannan Balakrishnan, (2011), Prediction of Learning Disabilities in School-Age
Children using SVM and Decision Tree, Int. J. of Computer Science and Information Technology,
ISSN 0975-9646, 2(2), pp829-835.
[3] Albert Bifet, (2013), “Mining Big data in Real time”, Informatica 37, pp15-20
[4] Richa Gupta, (2014), “Journey from data mining to Web Mining to Big Data”, IJCTT, 10(1),pp18-20[5] http://www.domo.com/blog/2014/04/data-never-sleeps-2-0/
[6] Priya P. Sharma, Chandrakant P. Navdeti, (2014), “ Securing Big Data Hadoop: A Review of Security
Issues, Threats and Solution”, IJCSIT, 5(2), pp2126-2131
[7] Richa Gupta, Sunny Gupta, Anuradha Singhal, (2014), “Big Data:Overview”, IJCTT, 9 (5)
[8] Wei Fan, Albert Bifet, “Mining Big Data: Current Status and Forecast to the Future”, SIGKDD
Explorations, 14 (2), pp1-5
[9] Chanchal Yadav, Shullang Wang, Manoj Kumar, (2013) “Algorithm and Approaches to handle large
Data- A Survey”, IJCSN, 2(3), ISSN:2277-5420(online), pp2277-5420
[10] Xindong Wu, Xingquan Zhu, Gong-Qing Wu, Wei Ding, “Data Mining with Big Data”
[11] Puneet Singh Duggal, Sanchita Paul, (2013), “Big Data Analysis:Challenges and Solutions”, Int.
Conf. on Cloud, Big Data and Trust, RGPV referencesrp