The Mobile Data Challenge:
Big Data for Mobile Computing Research titlerp This paper presents an overview of the Mobile Data Chal-
lenge (MDC), a large-scale research initiative aimed at gen-
erating innovations around smartphone-based research, as
well as community-based evaluation of related mobile data
analysis methodologies. First we review the Lausanne Data
Collection Campaign (LDCC) { an initiative to collect unique,
longitudinal smartphone data set for the basis of the MDC.
Then, we introduce the Open and Dedicated Tracks of the
MDC; describe the specic data sets used in each of them;
and discuss some of the key aspects in order to generate
privacy-respecting, challenging, and scientically relevant
mobile data resources for wider use of the research commu-
nity. The concluding remarks will summarize the paper.abstractrp keywordsrp Mobile phone technology has transformed the way we live, as
phone adoption has increased rapidly across the globe [17].
This has widespread social implications. The phones them-
selves have become instruments for fast communication and
collective participation. Further, dierent user groups, like
teenagers, have started to use them in creative ways. At the
same time, the number of sensors embedded in phones and
the applications built around them have exploded. In the
past few years smartphones remarkably started to carry sen-
sors like GPS, accelerometer, gyroscope, microphone, cam-
era and Bluetooth. Related application and service oering
covers e.g. information search, entertainment or healthcare.
The ubiquity of mobile phones and the increasing wealth of
the data generated from sensors and applications are giving
rise to a new research domain across computing and social
science. Researchers are beginning to examine issues in be-
havioral and social science from the Big Data perspective {
by using large-scale mobile data as input to characterize and
understand real-life phenomena, including individual traits,
as well as human mobility, communication, and interaction
patterns [11, 12, 9].
This new research, whose ndings are clearly important to
society at large, has been often conducted within corpora-
tions that historically have had access to these data types,
including telecom operators [13] or Internet companies [6],
or through granted data access to academics in highly re-
stricted forms [12]. Some initiatives, like [1], have collected
publicly available but in some extent limited data sets to-
gether. Clearly, government and corporate regulations for
privacy and data protection play a fundamental and neces-
sary role in protecting all sensitive aspects of mobile data.
From the research perspective, this also implies that mobile
data resources are scarce and often not ecologically valid to
test scientic hypotheses related to real-life behavior.
The Mobile Data Challenge (MDC) by Nokia is motivated
by our belief in the value of mobile computing research for
the common good - i.e., of research that can result in a
deeper scientic understanding of human and social phe-
nomena, advanced mobile experiences and technological in-
novations. Guided by this principle, in January 2009 Nokia
Research Center Lausanne and its Swiss academic partners
Idiap and EPFL started an initiative to create large-scale
mobile data research resources. This included the design
and implementation of the Lausanne Data Collection Cam-
paign (LDCC), an eort to collect a longitudinal smartphone
data set from nearly 200 volunteers in the Lake Geneva re-
gion over one year of time. It also involved the denition
of a number of research tasks with clearly specied exper-
imental protocols. From the very beginning the intention
was to share these research resources with the research com-
munity which required integration of holistic and proactive approach on privacy according to the of privacy-by-design
principles [2].
The MDC is the visible outcome of nearly three years of
work in this direction. The Challenge provided researchers
with an opportunity to analyze a relatively unexplored data
set including rich mobility, communication, and interaction
information. The MDC comprised of two research alter-
natives through an Open Research Track and a Dedicated
Research Track. In the Open Track, researchers were given
opportunity to approach the data set from an exploratory
perspective, by proposing their own tasks according to their
interests and background. The Dedicated Track gave re-
searchers the possibility to take on up to three tasks to solve,
related with prediction of mobility patterns, recognition of
place categories, and estimation of demographic attributes.
Each of these tasks had properly dened experimental pro-
tocols and standard evaluation measures to assess and rank
all contributions.
This paper presents an overview of the Mobile Data Chal-
lenge intended both for participants of the MDC and a wider
audience. Section 2 summarizes the LDCC data, the basis
for the MDC. Section 3 describes the MDC tracks and tasks
in detail. Section 4 provides details on the specic data sets
used for the MDC. Section 5 summarizes the schedule we
have followed to organize the Challenge. Finally, Section 6
oers some nal remarks.introductionrpThis paper described a systematic ow of research over 3.5
years at the time of writing, targeting to create and provide
unique longitudinal smartphone data set for wider use by the
research community. In this paper we gave motivation for
this initiative and summarized the key aspects of the Lau-
sanne Data Collection Campaign (LDCC) in which the rich
smartphone data was collected from around 200 individuals
over more than a year. We also described in further details
the Mobile Data Challenge (MDC) by Nokia which was a
data analytics contest making this data widely available to
the research community. The data collection campaign was
running in 2009-2011 whereas the challenge was organized
in 2011-2012.
Collecting such data requires extensive eort and underlying
investments, which often means that collected data sets are
available for researchers only in the limited manner. This
has recently generated some discussion about the basic prin-
ciples of science in connection with the Big Data driven re-
search. Verication of some claimed scientic ndings can
namely be challenging if access to the underlying data is very
limited. Protecting privacy of individuals behind the data
is obviously the key reason for access and usage limitations
of Big Data.
With the examples described in this paper we demonstrated
that open data sharing with the research community and
therefore wider open innovation momentum around the same
commonly available data set is possible. Achieving that re-
quires proactive and holistic approach on privacy through-
out the whole research ow. Privacy protection requires ex-
tremely careful considerations due to multimodality of the
rich smartphone data. In this paper we described the needed
countermeasures both when the smartphone data was origi-
nally collected and when it was later released to the research
community as a part of the MDC. In practice this required
both technical countermeasures and agreement based pri-
vacy protection. In that manner it was possible to achieve
appropriate balance between the necessary privacy protec-
tion but simultaneously still maintaining the richness of the
data for research purposes.
Already so far the Mobile Data Challenge has produced in-
teresting ndings and multidisciplinary scientic advances.
The contributions to the MDC addressed various interesting
angles from the perspective of mobile computing research,
like investigations on predictability of human behavior pat-
terns or opportunities to share/capture data based on hu-
man mobility, visualization techniques for complex data as
well as correlation between human behavior and external
environmental variables (like weather). The materials pre-
sented in the MDC workshop are available in [4]. Momen-
tum around the interesting research resources described in
this paper is expected to continue and expand also after the
Mobile Data Challenge itself. Our intention is to maintain
summary at least of the most important LDCC and MDC
originated research outcomes in [4] also in the future.conclusionrp[1] http://crawdad.cs.dartmouth.edu/.
[2] http://privacybydesign.ca/.
[3] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_address.
[4] http://research.nokia.com/mdc.
[5] I. Aad and V. Niemi. NRC Data Collection and the
Privacy by Design Principles. In PhoneSense, 2011.
[6] L. Backstrom, E. Sun, and C. Marlow. Find me if you
can: improving geographical prediction with social
and spatial proximity. In Proc. World Wide Web
Conf. (WWW), Apr. 2010.
[7] R. Bell, J. Bennett, Y. Koren, and C. Volinsky. The
million dollar programming prize. Spectrum, IEEE,
46(5):28{33, 2009.
[8] J. Bennett and S. Lanning. The netix prize. In
Proceedings of KDD Cup and Workshop, volume 2007,
page 35, 2007.
[9] G. Chittaranjan, J. Blom, and D. Gatica-Perez.
Mining large-scale smartphone data for personality
studies. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing,
published online Dec. 2011.
[10] T. Do and D. Gatica-Perez. Contextual conditional
models for smartphone-based human mobility
prediction. In Proc. ACM Int. Conf. on Ubiquitous
Computing, Pittsburgh, Sep. 2012.
[11] N. Eagle, A. Pentland, and D. Lazer. Inferring
friendship network structure by using mobile phone
data. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, 106(36):15274{15278, 2009.
[12] M. C. Gonzalez, C. A. Hidalgo, and A.-L. Barabasi.
Understanding individual human mobility patterns.
Nature, 453(7196):779{782, June 2008.
[13] S. Isaacman, R. Becker, R. Caceres, S. Kobourov,
M. Martonosi, J. Rowland, and A. Varshavsky.
Identifying important places in people's lives from
cellular network data. In Proc. Int. Conf. on Pervasive
Computing, San Francisco, Jun. 2011.
[14] N. Kiukkonen, J. Blom, O. Dousse, D. Gatica-Perez,
and J. Laurila. Towards rich mobile phone datasets:
Lausanne data collection campaign. In Proc. Int.
Conf. on Pervasive Services, Berlin, Jul. 2010.
[15] R. Montoliu and D. Gatica-Perez. Discovering human
places of interest from multimodal mobile phone data.
In Proc. Int. Conf. on Mobile and Ubiquitous
Multimedia, Limassol, Dec. 2010.
[16] M. Przybocki and A. Martin. Nist speaker recognition
evaluation-1997. In Proceedings of RLA2C, pages
120{123, 1998.
[17] P. Ross. Top 11 technologies of the decade. Spectrum,
IEEE, 48(1):27{63, 2011.
[18] A. Smeaton, P. Over, and W. Kraaij. Evaluation
campaigns and trecvid. In Proceedings of the 8th ACM
international workshop on Multimedia information
retrieval, pages 321{330. ACM, 2006.referencesrp