Cellular Traffic Offloading throughWiFi NetworkstitlerpCellular networks are currently facing the challenges
of mobile data explosion. High-end mobile phones and
laptops double their mobile data traffic every year and this
trend is expected to continue given the rapid development
of mobile social applications. It is imperative that novel
architectures be developed to handle such voluminous mobile
data. In this paper, we propose and evaluate an integrated
architecture exploiting the opportunistic networking paradigm
to migrate data traffic from cellular networks to metropolitan
WiFi access points (APs). To quantify the benefits of deploying
such an architecture, we consider the case of bulk file transfer
and video streaming over 3G networks and simulate data
delivery using real mobility data set of 500 taxis in an urban
area.We are the first to quantitatively evaluate the gains of citywide
WiFi offloading using large scale real traces. Our results
give the numbers of APs needed for different requirements of
quality of service for data delivery in large metropolitan area.
We show that even with a sparse WiFi network the delivery
performance can be significantly improved. This effort serves
as an important feasibility study and provides guidelines for
operators to evaluate the possibility and cost of this solution.abstractrpCellular traffic offloading, delay tolerant, WiFi
access points, trace-driven simulation.keywordsrpAccording to Cisco forecasts [1] and practical experiences
of mobile operators, we are now facing the “mobile data
apocalypse”. Mobile data traffic grows at a compound annual
growth rate (CAGR) of 131 percent between 2008 and
2013, and will exceed two exabyte per month in 2013. At
the same time, cellular operators in Europe are investing a
large amount of money to push machine-to-machine (M2M)
communications for billions of machines and smart devices
(e.g., automobile and sensors), which will create additional
mobile traffic. However, currently cellular networks do not
have enough capacity to accommodate such an exponential
growth of data. Thus, there is urgency for the research
community to look for new solutions.
Operators are rolling out increased bandwidth via High
Speed Packet Access (HSPA), Long Term Evolution (LTE)
and other upgrades. But simply increasing the speed may
not always be economically effective, and there may not be
enough bandwidth even with 4G. Moreover, there is always
a need to balance end-user satisfaction, infrastructure investments
(CAPEX) and operating expenses (OPEX). Even
without the mobile data apocalypse issue, if we consider the
current flat-rate charging model, cellular operators can still
integrate low-cost technologies to reduce the OPEX. Since
users are paying a flat rate for the data services, the operators
will not gain more from extra consumption of data by the
users from their networks. Some operators have realized this
issue, and have applied Delay Tolerant Networking (DTN)
technologies to transfer bulk data across the Internet [2].
Even in situations where cellular data access is relatively
cheap and reliable, the bandwidth offered by such services
tend to be orders of magnitude smaller than what is offered
by local wireless communication technologies. Thus, it is not
appealing to use cellular data networks to transfer large files
and operators should balance their traffic between cellular
(licensed) spectrum and open (unlicensed) wireless technologies.
For example, a better approach to handle this is using
the cellular network to transmit the request for some content,
and then using delay tolerant techniques to actually deliver
the data to mobile devices (this might either be through other
mobile nodes as relays, or by simply predicting when a user
will come into contact with a high-bandwidth access point
and delay the data transmission to that point). The result
is that there will be less traffic in cellular networks, which
can benefit the operator considerably. At the same time, the
local network might be able to provide a content feed with
higher quality and lower latency, thus rendering the system
beneficial for end-users as well.
In this paper, we propose a DTN approach [3] by leveraging
the fact that a significant amount of mobile data are
indeed delay tolerant in nature. The target data types are bulk
data and videos, which will account for 64% of the world’s
mobile traffic by 2013 [1]. Bulk data, for example, large
AVI files and data generated by scientific experiments, can
usually tolerate certain delay. Certain uplink data created by
sensors, and M2M applications such as remote sensing do
not require real-time data transmission. By exploiting this intrinsic
feature of data, we propose an integrated architecture,
Metropolitan Advanced Delivery Network (MADNet), that
consists of cellular networks, WiFi networks, and mobile-tomobile
Pocket Switched Networks (PSNs) [4]. We believe
that this architecture can provide a low-cost solution in
parallel with other solutions like HSPA and femtocells [5].
We focus on metropolitan areas since they have high
population density, and high content demands. We consider a scenario in which there is abundant coverage of 3G
network in large areas with a flat-rate payment plan for
data services. Users have mobile devices that can download
and produce rich multimedia contents. The devices have
large, but not unlimited, amount of persistent storage. Users
may want to upload their content to remote servers. There
will be ubiquitous availability of low cost cloud computing
resources, and users will upload their files and download
media files from the cloud easily. This will be a common
scenario in the near future.
For realistic evaluation, we use a real data set of 500
taxis moving in the city of San Francisco for 30 days, and
information gathered by the crawling of Youtube videos. We
show that with the addition of a limited number of APs, we
offload more than 50% 3G cellular traffic and reduce the
delay of transfers by more than 50% in the majority of the
requests. We further validate the results using another data
set collected at completely different time and with different
participants. The contribution of this paper is three-fold.
We propose a novel architecture to leverage opportunistic
WiFi and peer-to-peer connections for cellular data offloading.
We define the delivery methods for both downstream
and upstream, and highlight the application scenarios
for applying this new architecture. The architecture is
simple, uses only available techniques from current mobile
computing research, and hence can be easily prototyped.
We identify the delay-tolerant natures of certain bulk
contents and design the mechanisms to intentionally delay
them to achieve the effect of migrating bulk traffic from
the cellular network. We confirm the results with two
large scale real mobility datasets. We are the first to use
such large scale datasets to evaluate metropolitan cellular
offloading.
We quantify the number of APs required for a city-wide
WiFi offloading with different quality of service for data
delivery. It is obvious that using both cellular and WiFi
together will reduce the traffic on the cellular network.
The key issue here is how many APs are required to
obtain a certain performance improvement. This determines
the installation and maintenance costs of the WiFi
network, and hence the feasibility of this solution for the
operators. In term of research, this strongly motivates the
optimization of problems at different levels of detail, such
as optimized WiFi deployment, smart caching, multiple
concurrent WiFi access, and network management.
This paper does not provide a mathematical formulation
of the problem and does not provide prototyping results.
Instead, it provides an evaluation of evaluate the feasibility
of such offloading solution through real mobility traces, and
triggers more specific research topics as the next step. If the
ratio of performance improvement and deployment cost is
very low, it might not be worth spending more effort on any
minor optimizations. Hence, this study is very important for
further research on this topic.
The rest of this paper is structured as follows. In Section
II, we introduce the general offloading strategies. In
Section III, we present MADNet architecture and possible
application scenarios. In Section IV, we detail our simulation
setup. In Section V, we discuss the simulation results.
In Section VI, we review related work. We conclude in
Section VII.introductionrpIn this paper, we present an architecture for the integration
of WiFi networks and mobile-to-mobile Pocket Switched
Networks (PSN) with cellular networks to provide a lowcost
solution to handle the exponential growth of mobile
data traffic. Using real mobility traces from the city of San
Francisco, we have shown that only few hundreds of WiFi
APs deployed in an area of 313:83km2 can offload half
of the mobile data from the 3G network in our scenario
settings for both download and upload cases. The MADNet
architecture is simple, uses commonly available techniques
from current mobile computing research, and can be easily
prototyped and deployed using off-the-shelf hardware
equipment. Although the results are encouraging and suggest
the feasibility of opportunistic data offloading, we believe
this is still a fundamental step toward full integration of
opportunistic networks with cellular networks. Much more
research is required for practical use. We will study efficient
data replication and caching schemes, which can reduce the
delays induced by transferring data to the APs. We plan to
examine centrality metrics used to study spatial urban settings
and observe whether any effective deployment scheme
can be obtained by considering only the topological structure
of the city. For participants that share WiFi APs or relay
data, we can explore potential incentive schemes among the
cellular operators, normal users (residential WiFi owners),
and fixed-line operators (hotspot owners). The practical use
of the proposed architecture involves additional research and
engineering issues, including authentication and accounting,
signalling and transportation layer design. We believe that
our work will trigger many coming research challenges.conclusionrp[1] (2009, January) Cisco visual networking index: Global mobile
data traffic forecast update.
[2] N. Laoutaris, G. Smaragdakis, R. Sundaram, and P. Rodriguez,
“Delay-Tolerant Bulk Data Transfer on the Internet,”
in ACM SIGMETRICS 2009, June 2009.
[3] K. Fall, “A delay-tolerant network architecture for challenged
internets,” in ACM SIGCOMM, August 2003.
[4] A. Chaintreau, P. Hui, J. Crowcroft, C. Diot, R. Gass, and
J. Scott, “Impact of human mobility on opportunistic forwarding
algorithms,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing,
vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 606–620, 2007.
[5] V. Chandrasekhar, J. G. Andrews, and A. Gatherer, “Femtocell
networks: A survey,” IEEE Communications Magazine,
vol. 46, no. 9, pp. 59–67, September 2008.
[6] B. Han, P. Hui, V. Kumar, M. V. Marathe, G. Pei, and
A. Srinivasan, “Cellular Traffic Offloading through Opportunistic
Communications: A Case Study,” in ACM CHANTS
2010, Sep. 2010.
[7] P. Hui, J. Crowcroft, and E. Yoneki, “Bubble rap: socialbased
forwarding in delay tolerant networks,” in Proceedings
of the 9th ACM international symposium on Mobile ad hoc
networking and computing, ser. MobiHoc ’08. New York,
NY, USA: ACM, 2008, pp. 241–250.
[8] A. Balasubramanian, R. Mahajan, and A. Venkataramani,
“Augmenting Mobile 3G Using WiFi,” in ACM MobiSys
2010, Jun. 2010, pp. 209–222.
[9] K. Lee, I. Rhee, J. Lee, S. Chong, and Y. Yi, “Mobile data
offloading: how much can wifi deliver?” in Proceedings of
the 6th International COnference, ser. Co-NEXT ’10. New
York, NY, USA: ACM, 2010, pp. 26:1–26:12.
[10] S. J. Rahul C Shah, Sumit Roy and W. Brunette, “Data
mules: Modeling a three-tier architecture for sparse sensor
network,” in IEEE Workshop on Sensor Network Protocols
and Applications (SNPA), May 2003.
[11] P. Hui, A. Lindgren, and J. Crowcroft, “Empirical evaluation
of hybrid opportunistic networks,” in IEEE COMSNETS 2009,
January 2009.
[12] “Cabspotting,” http://www.cabspotting.org. [Online]. Available:
http://cabspotting.org
[13] A. Bouch, A. Kuchinsky, and N. Bhatti, “Quality is in the
eye of the beholder: meeting users’ requirements for internet
quality of service,” in ACM CHI ’00, 2000, pp. 297–304.
[14] A. King and J. Nielsen, Speed Up Your Site: Web Site
Optimization. Pearson Education, 2003.
[15] P. Crucitti, V. Latora, and S. Porta, “Centrality measures in
spatial networks of urban streets,” Physical Review E, vol. 73,
p. 036125, 2006.
[16] W. L. Tan, F. Lam, and W. C. Lau, “An empirical study on the
capacity and performance of 3g networks,” IEEE Transactions
on Mobile Computing, vol. 7, no. 6, pp. 737–750, 2008.
[17] M. Solarski, P. Vidales, O. Schneider, P. Zerfos, and J. P.
Singh, “An experimental evaluation of urban networking
using ieee 802.11 technology,” in IEEE OpComm 2006,
September 2006.
[18] M. Goemans, L. E. Li, V. S. Mirrokni, and M. Thottan,
“Market sharing games applied to content distribution in adhoc
networks,” in ACM MobiHoc ’04, May 2004.
[19] H. Luo, X. Meng, R. Ramjee, P. Sinha, and L. E. Li,
“The design and evaluation of unified cellular and ad hoc
networks,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 6,
no. 9, pp. 1060–1074, 2007.
[20] W. M. Aioffi, G. R. Mateus, J. M. de Almeida, and A. A. F.
Loureiro, “Dynamic content distribution for mobile enterprise
networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications,
vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 2022 – 2031, Oct. 2005.
[21] M. Aezladen, R. Cohen, and D. Raz, “Locally vs. globally
optimized flow-based content distribution to mobile nodes,”
in IEEE INFOCOM 2009, April 2009.
[22] R. Bhatia, G. Narlikar, I. Rimac, and A. Beck, “Unap: Usercentric
network-aware push for mobile content delivery,” in
IEEE INFOCOM 2009, April 2009.
[23] B. Han, P. Hui, and A. Srinivasan, “Mobile data offloading
in metropolitan area networks,” SIGMOBILE Mob. Comput.
Commun. Rev., vol. 14, pp. 28–30, November 2010.referencesrp