Keep a Few: Outsourcing Data
while Maintaining Con¯dentialitytitlerpWe put forward a novel paradigm for preserving privacy in
data outsourcing which departs from encryption. The basic idea behind
our proposal is to involve the owner in storing a limited portion of the
data, and maintaining all data (either at the owner or at external servers)
in the clear. We assume a relational context, where the data to be out-
sourced is contained in a relational table. We then analyze how the rela-
tional table can be fragmented, minimizing the load for the data owner.
We propose several metrics and present a general framework capturing
all of them, with a corresponding algorithm ¯nding a heuristic solution
to a family of NP-hard problems.abstractrp keywordsrpThe correct management of data with adequate support for reliability and avail-
ability requirements presents extremely signi¯cant economies of scale. There is
an important cost bene¯t for individuals and small/medium organizations in
outsourcing their data to external servers and delegating to them the respon-
sibility of data storage and management. Important initiatives already operate
in this market (e.g., Amazon's S3 service) and a signi¯cant expansion in this
direction is expected in the next few years. However, while on the one hand
there is a desire to outsource data management, there is on the other hand an
equally strong need to properly protect data con¯dentiality. Certain data, or -
more often - associations among data, are sensitive and cannot be released to
others or be stored outside the owner's control. The success and wide adoption of
data outsourcing solutions strongly depends on their ability to properly support
such con¯dentiality requirements.
In the last few years, the problem of outsourcing data subject to con¯dential-
ity constraints has raised considerable attention, and various research activities
have been carried out, providing the foundation for a large future deployment
of these solutions. All existing proposals share the assumption that sensitive
information stored at external servers can be protected by proper encryption.
More recent proposals combine encryption with fragmentation. While varying in
the amount of encryption required, all existing approaches assume the use of en-
cryption whenever needed for privacy, and operate under the implicit assumption
that the owner aims at externally storing the complete database. Encryption is
therefore considered a necessary price to be paid for protecting the con¯dential-
ity of information. Although cryptographic tools enjoy today a limited cost and
an a®ordable computational complexity, encryption carries however the burden
of managing keys, which makes it not applicable for many scenarios. In addition,
while the cost of encryption/decryption operations may be negligible, the exe-
cution of queries on encrypted data greatly increases the computational e®ort
required to the DBMS, considerably impacting its applicability for real-world
applications.
In this paper we propose a paradigm shift for solving the problem, which
departs from encryption, thus freeing the owner from the burden of its man-
agement. In exchange, we assume that the owner, while outsourcing the major
portion of the data at one or more external servers, is willing to locally store a
limited amount of data. The owner-side storage, being under the owner control,
is assumed to be maintained in a trusted environment. The main observation
behind our approach is that often is the association among data to be sensitive,
in contrast to the individual data themselves. Like recent solutions, we there-
fore exploit data fragmentation to break sensitive associations; but, in contrast
to them, we assume the use of fragmentation only. Basically, the owner main-
tains a small portion of the data, just enough to protect sensitive values or their
associations. The contribution of this paper is threefold. First, we propose a
novel approach to the problem of outsourcing data in the presence of privacy
constraints, based on involving the owner as a trusted party for limited stor-
age (Sect. 3). Second, aiming at minimizing the load required to the owner, we
investigate possible metrics according to which the owner's load could be char-
acterized (Sect. 4). The di®erent metrics can be applicable in di®erent scenarios,
depending on the owner's preferences and/or on the information (on the data or
on the system's workload) available at design time. Third, we introduce a new
theoretical problem, which is a generalization of a hitting set problem, show
how all the problems of minimizing the owner load with respect to the di®erent
metrics can be characterized as speci¯c instances of this problem, and present a
heuristic algorithm for its solution (Sect. 5).introductionrpThe paper presented an approach for the management of con¯dentiality con-
straints in data outsourcing. Speci¯cally, we were interested in analyzing the
e±cient management of data in the presence of a requirement forbidding the
use of encryption on the data. The solution presented satis¯es this requirement
by exploiting the availability at the owner of local trusted storage, which will
have to be used e±ciently by limiting its use to the representation of the min-
imal collection of data that are needed to protect the speci¯ed con¯dentiality
constraints. Minimization can be de¯ned following several distinct criteria and
we presented a general approach able to support, within the same algorithm,
the evaluation of alternative metrics. It is to note that this approach in no way
intends to make obsolete previous approaches using encryption. Rather, it pro-
poses a novel way that extends the adoption of data outsourcing to scenarios
where, in the evaluation of the tradeo® between the advantages and disadvan-
tages of encryption, a strong preference is expressed toward the adoption of an
encryption-less solution.conclusionrp1. Aggarwal, G., Bawa, M., Ganesan, P., Garcia-Molina, H., Kenthapadi, K., Mot-
wani, R., Srivastava, U., Thomas, D., Xu, Y.: Two can keep a secret: a distributed
architecture for secure database services. In: Proc. of CIDR 2005, Asilomar, CA,
USA (January 2005)
2. Biskup, J., Embley, D., Lochner, J.: Reducing inference control to access control
for normalized database schemas. IPL 106(1) (2008) 8{12
3. Ceselli, A., Damiani, E., De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Jajodia, S., Paraboschi, S.,
Samarati, P.: Modeling and assessing inference exposure in encrypted databases.
ACM TISSEC, 8(1) (February 2005) 119{152
4. Ciriani, V., De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Foresti, S., Jajodia, S., Paraboschi, S.,
Samarati, P.: Fragmentation and encryption to enforce privacy in data storage.
In: Proc. of ESORICS'07, Dresden, Germany (September 2007)
5. Ciriani, V., De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Foresti, S., Jajodia, S., Paraboschi, S.,
Samarati, P.: Fragmentation design for e±cient query execution over sensitive
distributed databases. In: Proc. of ICDCS'09, Montreal, Canada (June 2009)
6. Ciriani, V., De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Foresti, S., Samarati, P.: k-Anonymity.
In Yu, T., Jajodia, S., eds.: Secure Data Management in Decentralized Systems.
Springer-Verlag (2007)
7. Cormode, G., Srivastava, D., Yu, T., Zhang, Q.: Anonymizing bipartite graph data
using safe groupings. In: Proc. of VLDB'08, Auckland, New Zeland (August 2008)
8. Dawson, S., De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Lincoln, P., Samarati, P.: Maximizing
sharing of protected information. JCSS 64(3) (May 2002) 496{541
9. De Capitani di Vimercati, S., Foresti, S., Jajodia, S., Paraboschi, S., Samarati, P.:
Over-encryption: Management of access control evolution on outsourced data. In:
Proc. of VLDB'07, Vienna, Austria (September 2007)
10. Garey, M., Johnson, D.: Computers and Intractability; a Guide to the Theory of
NP-Completeness. W.H. Freeman and Company (1979)
11. HacigÄumÄus, H., Iyer, B., Mehrotra, S.: Providing database as a service. In: Proc.
of ICDE'02, San Jose, CA, USA (February 2002)
12. Miklau, G., Suciu, D.: Controlling access to published data using cryptography.
In: Proc. of VLDB'03, Berlin, Germany (September 2003)
13. Navathe, S., Ceri, S., Wiederhold, G., Dou, J.: Vertical partitioning algorithms for
database design. ACM TODS 9(4) (December 1984) 680{710
14. Wang, H., Lakshmanan, L.V.S.: E±cient secure query evaluation over encrypted
XML databases. In: Proc. of VLDB'06, Seoul, Korea (September 2006)referencesrp