Big Data: The New Challenges in Data MiningtitlerpBig Data is a new term used to identify the datasets but
due to their large size and complexity, we cannot manage them
with our current methodologies or data mining software tools.
With the fast development of networking, data storage, and the
data collection capacity, Big Data is now rapidly expanding in all
science and engineering domains, including physical, biological
and biomedical sciences. Big Data mining is the capability of
extracting useful information from these large datasets or
streams of data, that due to its volume, variability, and velocity,
it was not possible before to do it. The Big Data challenge is
becoming one of the most exciting opportunities for the next
years. This paper represents a broad overview of the topic, Big
Data challenges, Data Mining Challenges with Big Data, Big Data
processing framework and forecast to the future.abstractrpBig Data, New Challenges, Data Mining, Future
Challenges, Big Data Problems.keywordsrpBig Data is too big, too fast, or too hard for existing tools to
process [1]. Here, “too big” means that organizations
increasingly must deal with petabyte-scale collections of data
that come from click streams, transaction histories, sensors,
and elsewhere. “Too fast” means that not only is data big, but
it must be processed. “Too hard” is a catchall for data that
doesn’t fit neatly into an existing processing tool or that needs
some kind of analysis that existing tools can’t readily provide.
Big Data is currently defined using three data
characteristics: volume, variety and velocity [2]. At some
point when the volume, variety and velocity of the data are
increased, the current techniques and technologies may not be
able to handle storage and processing of the data. At that point
the data is defined as Big Data. The term Big Data Analytics
is nothing but the process of analyzing and understanding the
characteristics of massive size datasets by extracting useful
geometric and statistical patterns. These three characteristics
of a dataset increase the complexity of the data.
Many applications involve the Big Data problem,
including network traffic risk analysis, geospatial
classification and business forecasting. Network intrusion
detection and prediction are time sensitive applications and
they require highly efficient Big Data techniques and
technologies to tackle the problem. In this paper some of the
problems and challenges associated with the Big Data
technologies and techniques are discussed.
The current definition of Big Data defined on a 3D space,
V3, formed by three parameters, volume, variety and velocity
cannot provide a suitable platform for the early detection of
Big Data characteristics for Big Data classification. Figure 1
shows the 3D space defined for Big V3, formed by three parameters, volume, variety and velocity cannot provide a
suitable platform for the early detection of Big Data
characteristics for Big Data classification.
Figure 1 shows the 3D space defined for Big Data, where the
axis of volume represents the growth of data size, the axis of
velocity represents the increase in speed in which the data
must be processed, and the axis of variety represents the
increase in various types of data.A new definition for Big Data as a 3D space, C3, as shown in
Figure 2, which is defined based on three new parameters:
cardinality, continuity, and complexity. In C3 space the
cardinality defines the number of records in the dynamically
growing dataset at a particular instance. The continuity defines
two characteristics and they are: (i) representation of data by
continuous functions, and (ii) continuously growth of data size
with respect to time. The complexity defines three
characteristics and they are: (i) large varieties of data types,
(ii) high dimensional dataset; and (iii) the speed of data
processing are very high[3].introductionrpBig Data is going to continue growing during the next years,
and each data scientist will have to manage much more
amount of data every year. This data is going to be more
diverse, larger, and faster. We discussed in this paper a change
to the basic definition V3 of Big Data to C3 so that the Big
Data analytics maybe better explained and understood with
mathematical and statistical techniques. Research on Big Data
techniques and technologies evolving and at the same time
new problems and challenges are emerging, hence the hope is
to develop better and better techniques and technologies
towards finding solutions for Big Data classification problem.
We are at the beginning of a new era where Big Data mining
will help us to discover knowledge that no one has discovered
before.conclusionrp[1] Sam Madden • Massachusetts Institute of Technology From Database
to Big Data,IEEE,2012
[2] P. C. Zikopoulos, C. Eaton, D. deRoos, T. Deutsch, and G. Lapis,
Understanding big data – Analytics for enterprise class Hadoop and
streaming data, McGraw-Hill, 2012.
[3] Shan Suthaharan , Big Data Classification: Problems and Challenges in
Network Intrusion Prediction with Machine Learning.
[4] Neal Leavitt,”Storage Challenges: Where Will Att That Big Data Go?”,
0018-9162/13/$31.00 © , 2013 IEEE.
[5] I. Muttik and C. Barton. "Cloud security technologies," information
security technical report 14.1: 1-6, 2009.
[6] S. Carlin and K. Curran. "Cloud Computing Technologies."
International Journal of Cloud Computing and Services Science (IJCLOSER)
1.2: 59-65, 2012.
[7] P. C. Wong, H. W. Shen, C. R. Johnson, C. Chen, and R. B. Ross, “The
Top 10 Challenges in Extreme-Scale Visual Analytics,” Computer
Graphics and Applications, IEEE, 32(4), 63-67, 2012.
[8] Xindong Wu,, Xingquan Zhu, Gong-Qing Wu, Wei Ding, “Data
Mining with Big Data”, 1041-4347/13, 2013 IEEE
[9] Wei Fan, Albert Bifet, “ Mining Big Data: Current Status, and Forecast
to the Future”, SIGKDD Explorations, Volume 14, Issue 2
[10] V. Gopalkrishnan, D. Steier, H. Lewis, and J. Guszcza.Big data, big
business: bridging the gap. In Proceed-ings of the 1st International
Workshop on Big Data,Streams and Heterogeneous Source Mining:
Algorithms,Systems, Programming Models and Applications, Big-Mine
'12, pages 7{11, New York, NY, USA, 2012. ACM.
[11] C. Parker. Unexpected challenges in large scale machine learning. In
Proceedings of the 1st International Work- shop on Big Data, Streams
and Heterogeneous Source Mining: Algorithms, Systems, Programming
Models and Applications, BigMine '12, pages 1{6, New York,NY,
USA, 2012. ACM.
[12] N. Marz and J. Warren. Big Data: Principles and best practices of
scalable realtime data systems. Manning Publications, 2013.
[13] B. Efron. Large-Scale Inference: Empirical Bayes Meth- ods for
Estimation, Testing, and Prediction. Institute of Mathematical Statistics
Monographs. Cambridge University Press, 2010.
[14] D. Feldman, M. Schmidt, and C. Sohler. Turning big data into tiny data:
Constant-size coresets for k-means, pca and projective clustering. In
SODA, 2013.
[15] J. Gama. Knowledge Discovery from Data Streams. Chapman & all/Crc
data Mining and Knowledge Discovery. Taylor & Francis Group, 2010.
[16] J. Gantz and D. Reinsel. IDC: The Digital Universe in 2020: Big Data,
Bigger Digital Shadows, and Biggest Growth in the Far East. December
2012.
[17] R. Smolan and J. Erwitt. The Human Face of Big Data. Sterling
Publishing Company Incorporated, 2012.
[18] Katina Michael, Keith W. Miller, “ Big Data: New Opportunities and
New Challenges”, IEEE Computer Society 0018-9162/13/$31.00 ©
2013 IEEEreferencesrp