Data Mining Challenges With Big DatatitlerpData analysis is a clear bottleneck in many applications, both due to lack of scalability of the underlying algorithms and
due to the complexity of the data that needs to be analyzed. The value of data explodes when it can be linked with other data, thus
data integration is a major creator of value. Since most data is directly generated in digital format today, we have the opportunity
and the challenge both to influence the creation to facilitate later linkage and to automatically link previously created data. Data
analysis, organization, retrieval, and modeling are other foundational challenges. Big Data concern large-volume, complex,
growing data sets with multiple, autonomous sources. With the fast development of networking, data storage, and the data
collection capacity, Big Data are now rapidly expanding in all science and engineering domains, including physical, biological
and biomedical sciences. This paper presents about the data mining and its challenges with big data.abstractrp
Big Data, data mining, Big data semantics, Big Data mining algorithmsKeywordsrpWe are awash in a flood of data today. In a broad range of application areas, data is being collected at unprecedented scale. Decisions
that previously were based on guesswork, or on painstakingly constructed models of reality, can now be made based on the data itself.
Such Big Data analysis now drives nearly every aspect of our modern society, including mobile services, retail, manufacturing,
financial services, life sciences, and physical sciences.Big data is a broad term for data sets so large or complex data
processing applications are inadequate. Challenges include analysis, capture, curation, search, sharing, storage, transfer, visualization,
and information privacy. The term often refers simply to the use of predictive analytics or other certain advanced methods to extract
value from data, and seldom to a particular size of data.
The rise of Big Data applications where data collection has grown tremendously and is beyond the ability of commonly used
software tools is to capture, manage, and process within an acceptable elapsed time. The most fundamental challenge for Big Data
applications is to explore the large volumes of data and extract useful information or knowledge for future actions means we need to
mine user interested data. In many situations, the Data Mining process has to be very efficient and close to real time because storing
all observed data is nearly infeasible.A. Characteristics Of Big Data
Big data can be described by the following characteristics:
1) Volume – The quantity of data that is generated is very important in this context. It is the size of the data which determines the
value and potential of the data under consideration and whether it can actually be considered Big Data or not.
2) Variety - This means that the category to which Big Data belongs to is also a very essential fact that needs to be known by the
data analysts. This helps the people, who are closely analyzing the data and are associated with it.
3) Velocity - The term ‘velocity’ in the context refers to the speed of generation of data or how fast the data is generated and
processed to meet the demands and the challenges which lie ahead in the path of growth and development.
4) Variability - This is a factor which can be a problem for those who analyze the data. This refers to the inconsistency which can be
shown by the data at times.
5) Veracity - The quality of the data being captured can vary greatly. Accuracy of analysis depends on the veracity of the source
data.
6) Complexity - Data management can become a very complex process, especially when large volumes of data come from multiple
sources.introductionrpDriven by real-world applications and key industrial stakeholders and initialized by national funding agencies, managing and mining
Big Data have shown to be a challenging yet very compelling task. While the term Big Data literally concerns about data volumes,
and the key characteristics of the Big Data are 1) huge with heterogeneous and diverse data sources, 2) autonomous with distributed
and decentralized control, and 3) complex and evolving in data and knowledge associations. Such combined characteristics suggest
that Big Data require a “big mind” to consolidate data for maximum values. To explore Big Data, we have analyzed several
challenges at the data, model, and system levels. To support Big Data mining, high-performance computing platforms are required,
which impose systematic designs to unleash the full power of the Big Data. At the data level, the autonomous information sources and
the variety of the data collection environments, often result in data with complicated conditions, such as missing/uncertain values.
Finally d Big Data as an emerging trend and the need for Big Data mining is arising in all science and engineering domains. With Big
Data technologies, we will hopefully be able to provide most relevant and most accurate social sensing feedback to better understand
our society at realtime. We can further stimulate the participation of the public audiences in the data production circle for societal and
economical events. The era of Big Data has arrived.conclusionrp[1] R. Ahmed and G. Karypis, “Algorithms for Mining the Evolution of Conserved Relational States in Dynamic Networks,” Knowledge and Information Systems,
vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 603-630, Dec. 2012.
[2] M.H. Alam, J.W. Ha, and S.K. Lee, “Novel Approaches to Crawling Important Pages Early,” Knowledge and Information Systems, vol. 33, no. 3, pp 707-734,
Dec. 2012.
[3] S. Aral and D. Walker, “Identifying Influential and Susceptible Members of Social Networks,” Science, vol. 337, pp. 337-341, 2012.
[4] A. Machanavajjhala and J.P. Reiter, “Big Privacy: Protecting Confidentiality in Big Data,” ACM Crossroads, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 20-23, 2012.
[5] S. Banerjee and N. Agarwal, “Analyzing Collective Behavior from Blogs Using Swarm Intelligence,” Knowledge and Information Systems, vol. 33, no. 3, pp.
523-547, Dec. 2012.
[6] Xindong Wu, Xingquan Zhu, Gong-Qing Wu, and Wei Ding, “Data Mining with Big Data” IEEE transactions on knowledge and data engineering, vol. 26, no. 1,
january 2014, pp-97-107.
[7] E. Birney, “The Making of ENCODE: Lessons for Big-Data Projects,” Nature, vol. 489, pp. 49-51, 2012. M. Young, The Technical Writer’s Handbook. Mill
Valley, CA: University Science, 1989.
[8] G. Cormode and D. Srivastava, “Anonymized Data: Generation, Models, Usage,” Proc. ACM SIGMOD Int’l Conf. Management Data, pp. 1015-1018,2009.referencesrp