Cellular Data Network Infrastructure Characterization and
Implication on Mobile Content Placement titlerpDespite the tremendous growth in the cellular data network usage
due to the popularity of smartphones, so far there is rather limited
understanding of the network infrastructure of various cellular
carriers. Understanding the infrastructure characteristics such as
the network topology, routing design, address allocation, and DNS
service configuration is essential for predicting, diagnosing, and
improving cellular network services, as well as for delivering content
to the growing population of mobile wireless users. In this
work, we propose a novel approach for discovering cellular infrastructure
by intelligently combining several data sources, i.e., server
logs from a popular location search application, active measurements
results collected from smartphone users, DNS request logs
from a DNS authoritative server, and publicly available routing updates.
We perform the first comprehensive analysis to characterize
the cellular data network infrastructure of four major cellular carriers
within the U.S. in our study.
We conclude among other previously little known results that
the current routing of cellular data traffic is quite restricted, as it
must traverse a rather limited number (i.e., 4–6) of infrastructure
locations (i.e., GGSNs), which is in sharp contrast to wireline Internet
traffic. We demonstrate how such findings have direct implications
on important decisions such as mobile content placement
and content server selection. We observe that although the local
DNS server is a coarse-grained approximation on the user’s network
location, for some carriers, choosing content servers based on
the local DNS server is accurate enough due to the restricted routing
in cellular networks. Placing content servers close to GGSNs
can potentially reduce the end-to-end latency by more than 50%
excluding the variability from air interface.abstractrpCellular network architecture, GGSN placement, Mobile content
deliverykeywordsrpOn the Internet, IP addresses indicate to some degree the identity
and location of end-hosts. IP-based geolocation is widely used in
different types of network applications such as content customization
and server selection. Using IP addresses to geolocate wireline
end-hosts is known to work reasonably well despite the prevalence
of NAT, since most NAT boxes consist of only a few hosts [7].
However, one recent study [5] exposed very different characteristics
of IP addresses in cellular networks, i.e., cellular IP addresses
can be shared across geographically very disjoint regions within
a short time duration. This observation suggests that cellular IP
addresses do not contain enough geographic information at a sufficiently
high fidelity. Moreover, it implies only a few IP gateways
may exist for cellular data networks, and that IP address management
is much more centralized than that for wireline networks, for
which tens to hundreds of Points of Presence (PoPs) are spread out
at geographically distinct locations.
There is a growing need to improve mobile content delivery,
e.g., via a content distribution network (CDN) service, given the
rapidly increasing mobile traffic volume and the fact that the performance
perceived by mobile users is still much worse than that
for DSL/Cable wireline services [17]. For mobile content, the radio
access network, cellular backbone, and the Internet wireline all
have impact and leave space for further improvement [2, 1, 30]. A
first necessary step is to understand the cellular network structure.
The lack of geographic information of cellular IP addresses brings
new challenges for mobile service providers, who attempt to deliver
content from servers close to users. First, it is unclear where
to place the content servers. As shown later, cellular data networks
have very few IP gateways. Therefore, it is critical to first identify
those IP gateways to help decide where to place content servers.
Second, unlike wireline networks, cellular IP addresses themselves
often cannot accurately convey a user’s location, which is critical
information needed by the CDN service to determine the closest
server. In this work, we show how these challenges can be addressed
by leveraging the knowledge of the cellular network infrastructure.
Cellular data networks have not been explored much by the research
community to explain the dynamics of cellular IP addresses
despite the growing popularity of their use. The impact of the cellular
architecture on the performance of a diverse set of smartphone
network applications and on cellular users has been largely overlooked.
In this study, we perform the first comprehensive characterization
study of the cellular data network infrastructure to explain
the diverse geographic distribution of cellular IP addresses,
and to highlight the key importance of the design decisions of the
network infrastructure that affect the performance, manageability,
and evolvability of the network architecture. Understanding the
current architecture of cellular data networks is critical for future
improvement.
Since the observation of the diversity in the geographic distribution
of cellular IP address in the previous study [5] indicates
that there may exist very few cellular IP data network gateways,
identifying the location of these gateways becomes the key for cellular
infrastructure characterization in our study. The major challenge
is exacerbated by the lack of openness of such networks. We
are unable to infer topological information using existing probing
tools. For example, merely sending traceroute probes from cellular
devices to the Internet IP addresses exposes mostly private IP addresses
along the path within the UMTS architecture. In the reverse
direction, only some of the IP hops outside the cellular networks respond
to traceroute probes.
To tackle these challenges, instead of relying on those cellular
IP hops, we use the geographic coverage of cellular IP addresses
to infer the placement of IP gateways following the intuition that
those cellular IP addresses with the same geographic coverage are
likely to have the same IP allocation policy, i.e., they are managed
by the same set of gateways. To obtain the geographic coverage,
we use two distinct data sources and devise a systematic approach
for processing the data reconciling potential conflicts, combined
with other data obtained via simple probing and passive data analysis.
Our approach of deploying a lightweight measurement tool on
smartphones provides the network information from the perspective
of cellular users. Combining this data source with a location
search service of a cellular content provider further enhances our
visibility into the cellular network infrastructure.
One key contribution of our work is the measurement methodology
for characterizing the cellular network infrastructure, which
requires finding the relevant address blocks, locating them, and
clustering them based on their geographic coverage. This enables
the identification of the IP gateways within cellular data networks,
corresponding to the first several outbound IP hops used to reach
the rest of the Internet. We draw parallels with many past studies
in the Internet topology characterization, such as the Rocketfuel
project [31] characterizing ISP topologies, while our problem highlights
additional challenges due to the lack of publicly available information
and the difficulties in collecting relevant measurement
data. We enumerate our key findings and major contributions below.
We designed and evaluated a general technique for distinguishing
cellular users from WiFi users using smartphones
and further differentiating network carriers based on cellular
IP addresses. Compared with other heuristics such as
querying IP addresses from whois database and distinguishing
cellular carriers based on key words such as “mobility”
and “wireless” from the organization name, our technique
collects the ground truth observed by smartphone devices
by deploying a lightweight measurement tool for popular
smartphone OSes. Distributed as a free application on major
smartphone application markets, it can tell the carrier name
for 99.97% records of a popular location search application
which has 20,000 times more records than the application.
We comprehensively characterized the cellular network infrastructure
for fourmajor U.S. carriers including both UMTS
and EVDO networks by clustering their IP addresses based
on their geographic coverage. Our technique relies on the
device-side IP behavior easily collected through our lightweight
measurement tool instead of requiring any proprietary information
fromnetwork providers. Our characterization methodology
is applicable to all cellular access technologies (2G,
3G, or 4G).
We observed that the traffic for all four carriers traverses
through only 4–6 IP gateways, each encompassing a large
geographic coverage, implying the sharing of address blocks
within the same geographic area. This is fundamentally different
from wireline networks with more distributed infrastructure.
The restricted routing topology for cellular networks
creates new challenges for applications such as CDN
service.
We performed the first study to examine the geographic coverage
of local DNS servers and discussed in depth its implication
on content server selection. We observe that although
local DNS servers provide coarse-grained approximation for
users’ network location, for some carriers, choosing content
servers based on local DNS servers is reasonably accurate for
the current cellular infrastructure due to restricted routing in
cellular networks.
We investigated the performance in terms of end-to-end delay
for current content delivery networks and evaluated the
benefit of placing content servers at different network locations,
i.e., on the Internet or inside cellular networks. We observed
that pushing content close to GGSNs can potentially
reduce the end-to-end latency by 50% excluding the variability
from air interface. Our observation strongly encourages
CDN service providers to place content servers inside cellular
networks for better performance.introductionrpIn this paper, we comprehensively characterized the infrastructure
of cellular data network of four major wireless carriers within
the U.S. including both UMTS and EVDO technology. We unveiled
several fundamental differences between cellular data networks
and the wireline networks in terms of placement of GGSNs,local DNS server behavior, and routing properties. One of the most
surprising findings is that cellular data networks have severe restriction
on routing by traversing only a few limited GGSNs to interface
with external Internet networks. We observed that all 4 carriers we
studied divide the U.S. among only 4–6 GGSNs, each serving a
large geographic area. Since the GGSN is the first IP hop, it implies
that CDN servers cannot consistently serve content close to
end users.
Our study also showed that in the best case local DNS servers
for some carriers can be close to GGSNs. Since traffic from and
to local DNS servers and cellular users must traverse one of those
few GGSNs, using local DNS servers and the knowledge of the
mapping to the GGSN to identify the best server to deliver mobile
content currently can be sufficient despite the routing restrictions.
Regarding content placement, we investigated and compared two
choices: (i) placing content at the boundary between the cellular
backbone and the Internet; and (ii) placing content at the GGSN
in the cellular backbone. We observed that pushing content close
to GGSNs could potentially reduce the end-to-end latency by more
than 20%. If pushing content into the proprietary cellular backbone
is not permitted, placing content at the boundary still gives
considerable benefit.
We believe our findings in characterizing the infrastructure for
cellular data networks directly motivate future work in this area.
Our observations on the cellular infrastructure guide CDNs to provide
better service to mobile users, and our methodology for discovering
cellular data network properties will continue to reveal
new behavior as cellular networks evolve.conclusionrp[1] Introduction Mobile Data Track Presentation. http://www.
nanog.org/meetings/nanog47/presentations/Monday/
Intro_nanog47_mobiletrack.pdf.
[2] The future of mobile networking. http://www.nanog.org/
meetings/nanog47/presentations/Monday/Future_
Mobile_Data_N47_Mon.pdf.
[3] University of Oregon Route Views Archive Project. http://
www.routeviews.org.
[4] M. Anand, E. B. Nightingale, and J. Flinn. Self-Tuning
Wireless Network Power Management. Wireless Networks,
11(4), 2005.
[5] M. Balakrishnan, I. Mohomed, and V. Ramasubramanian.
Where’s That Phone?: Geolocating IP Addresses on 3G
Networks. In Proceedings of IMC, 2009.
[6] N. Balasubramanian, A. Balasubramanian, and
A. Venkataramani. Energy Consumption in Mobile Phones:
A Measurement Study and Implications for Network
Applications. In Proc. ACM SIGCOMM IMC, 2009.
[7] M. Casado and M. J. Freedman. Peering through the shroud:
The effect of edge opacity on IP-based client identification.
In Proc. Symposium on Networked Systems Design and
Implementation, 2007.
[8] R. Chakravorty, S. Banerjee, S. Agarwal, and I. Pratt. MoB:
A Mobile Bazaar for Wide-area Wireless Services. In Proc.
ACM MOBICOM, 2005.
[9] M. C. Chan and R. Ramjee. TCP/IP Performance over 3G
Wireless Links with Rate and Delay Variation. In Proc. of
MOBICOM, 2002.
[10] S. J. Cheng, C. Jin, A. R. Kurc, D. Raz, and Y. Shavitt.
Constrained Mirror Placement on the Internet. In Proc. IEEE
INFOCOM, 2001.
[11] J. Chesterfield, R. Chakravorty, J. Crowcroft, P. Rodriguez,
and S. Banerjee. Experiences with Multimedia Streaming
over 2.5G and 3G Networks. Journal ACM/MONET, 2004.
[12] CISCO. Configuring Dynamic Addressing on the GGSN.
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_4/12_4y/
12_4_24ye/cfg/ggsndhcp.html.
[13] M. Ghaderi, A. Sridharan, H. Zang, D. Towsley, and R. Cruz.
TCP-Aware Resource Allocation in CDMA Networks. In
Proceedings of ACM MOBICOM, Los Angeles, CA, USA,
September 2006.
[14] Google. Gears. http://gears.google.com.
[15] B. Gueye, A. Ziviani, M. Crovella, and S. Fdida.
Constraint-based Geolocation of Internet Hosts. IEEE/ACM
Trans. Netw., 14(6):1219–1232, 2006.
[16] C. Huang, A. Wang, J. Li, and K. W. Ross. Measuring and
Evaluating Large-Scale CDNs. In Microsoft Research
Technical Report MSR-TR-2008-106, 2008.
[17] J. Huang, Q. Xu, B. Tiwana, Z. M. Mao, M. Zhang, and
P. Bahl. Anatomizing Application Performance Differences
on Smartphones. In Proc. ACM MOBISYS, 2010.
[18] E. Inc. LTE-SAE architecture and performance. http://
www.ericsson.com/ericsson/corpinfo/publications/
review/2007_03/files/5_LTE_SAE.pdf.
[19] E. Katz-Bassett, J. P. John, A. Krishnamurthy, D. Wetherall,
T. Anderson, and Y. Chawathe. Towards IP geolocation using
delay and topology measurements. In IMC 2006:
Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGCOMM conference on
Internet measurement, pages 71–84, New York, NY, USA,
2006. ACM.
[20] R. Keralapura, A. Nucci, Z.-L. Zhang, and L. Gao. Profiling
Users in a 3G Network Using Hourglass Co-Clustering. In
Proc. ACM MOBICOM, 2010.
[21] X. Liu, A. Sridharan, S. Machiraju, M. Seshadri, and
H. Zang. Experiences in a 3G Network: Interplay between
the Wireless Channel and Applications. In Proceedings of
ACM MOBICOM, 2008.
[22] H. V. Madhyastha, T. Isdal, M. Piatek, C. Dixon,
T. Anderson, A. Krishnamurthy, and A. Venkataramani.
iPlane: An Information Plane for Distributed Services. In
Proc. Operating Systems Design and Implementation, 2006.
[23] Z. M. Mao, C. Cranor, F. Douglis, M. Rabinovich,
O. Spatscheck, and J. Wang. A Precise and Efficient
Evaluation of the Proximity between Web Clients and their
Local DNS Servers. In Proc of USENIX Annual Technical
Conference, 2002.
[24] J. Oberheide, K. Veraraghavan, E. Cooke, J. Flinn, and
F. Jahanian. In-Cloud Security Services for Mobile Devices.
In Proc of the First Workshop on Virtualization and Mobile
Computing, 2008.
[25] V. N. Padmanabhan and L. Subramanian. An Investigation of
Geographic Mapping Techniques for Internet Hosts. In ACM
Sigcomm, 2001.
[26] L. Qiu, V. N. Padmanabhan, and G. M. Voelker. On the
Placement of Web Server Replicas. In Proc. IEEE
INFOCOM, 2001.
[27] M. Rahnema. UMTS Network Planning, Optimization, and
Inter-Operation with GSM. Wiley, 2007.
[28] P. Rodriguez, R. Chakravorty, J. Chesterfield, I. Pratt, and
S. Banerjee. MAR: A Commuter Router Infrastructure for
the Mobile Internet. In Proc. ACM MOBISYS, 2004.
[29] A. Shaikh, R. Tewari, and M. Agrawal. On the Effectiveness
of DNS-based Server Selection. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM,
Anchorage, AK, April 2001.
[30] S. Solutions. Solutions: Mobile Data Offload. http://www.
stoke.com/Solutions/smdo.asp.
[31] N. Spring, R. Mahajan, and D. Wetherall. Measuring ISP
Topologies with Rocketfuel. In ACM Sigcomm, 2002.
[32] N. Spring, D. Wetherall, and T. Anderson.
Reverse-Engineering the Internet. In Proc. First ACM
SIGCOMM HotNets Workshop, 2002.
[33] A. Sridharan, R. Subbaraman, and R. Guerin. Distributed
Uplink Scheduling in CDMA Networks. In Proceedings of
IFIP-Networking 2007, May 2007.
[34] L. Subramanian, S. Agarwal, J. Rexford, and R. H. Katz.
Characterizing the Internet Hierarchy from Multiple Vantage
Points. In Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2002.
[35] P.-N. Tan, M. Steinbach, and V. Kumar. Introduction to Data
Mining. Addison-Wesley, 2006.
[36] I. Trestian, S. Ranjan, A. Kuzmanovic, and A. Nucci.
Measuring Serendipity: Connecting People, Locations and
Interests in a Mobile 3G Network. In Proceedings of IMC,
2009.
[37] B. Wong, I. Stoyanov, and E. G. Sirer. Octant: A
Comprehensive Framework for the Geolocalization of
Internet Hosts. In Proc. Symposium on Networked Systems
Design and Implementation, 2007.
[38] M. Zhang, C. Zhang, V. Pai, L. Peterson, and R. Wang.
PlanetSeer: Internet Path Failure Monitoring and
Characterization in Wide-Area Services. In Proc. Operating
Systems Design and Implementation, 2004.
[39] Z. Zhuang, T.-Y. Chang, R. Sivakumar, and A. Velayutham.
A3: Application-Aware Acceleration for Wireless Data
Networks. In Proc. of ACM MOBICOM, 2006.referencesrp