Advance cryptography algorithm for improving data security 
 titlerp
Information security is the process of protecting information. It protects its availability, privacy and integrity. Access to stored
information on computer databases has increased greatly. More companies store business and individual information on computer than
ever before. Much of the information stored is highly confidential and not for public viewing. In this paper I have developed a new
cryptography algorithm which is based on block cipher concept. In this algorithm I have used logical operation like XOR and shifting
operation. Experimental results show that proposed algorithm is very efficient and secured.
 To write this paper I have Study about information security using cryptography technique. After the detailed study of Network
security using cryptography, I am presenting my proposed work. This paper is dividing in four sections. In section-I, I am presenting
just basic introduction about Information Security using cryptography, in section-II, I am presenting detailed description of
Information security using cryptography and various algorithms, in section-III, I am presenting my proposed algorithm, and in section
IV I am Presenting summary and references where I have completed my research. The proposed algorithm has the batter speed
compared with the comparing encryption algorithm. Nevertheless, the proposed algorithm improves encryption security by inserting the
symmetric layer. The proposed algorithm will be useful to the applications which require the same procedure of encryption and
decryption.
abstractrp
Information security, Encryption, Decryption, Cryptography
keywordsrp
The main feature of the encryption/decryption program
implementation is the generation of the encryption key. Now a
day, cryptography has many commercial applications. If we are
protecting confidential information then cryptography is provide
high level of privacy of individuals and groups. However, the
main purpose of the cryptography is used not only to provide
confidentiality, but also to provide solutions for other problems
like: data integrity, authentication, non-repudiation.
Cryptography is the methods that allow information to be sent
in a secure from in such a way that the only receiver able to
retrieve this information. Presently continuous researches on the
new cryptographic algorithms are going on. However, it is a
very difficult to find out the specific algorithm, because we have
already known that they must consider many factors like:
security, the features of algorithm, the time complexity and
space complexity. Figure 1 is representing conventional
encryption
Figure 1: A Simplified Model of Conventional Encryption
Security Services: If we are taking about security of information
then following services come in mind.
? Confidentiality (privacy)
? Authentication (who created or sent the data)
? Integrity (has not been altered)
? Non-repudiation (the order is final)
? Access control (prevent misuse of resources)
? Availability (permanence, non-erasure)
 introductionrp
 From the result its is
clear that our “proposed technique” is batter result producing as
compared “DJSA symmetric key algorithm” and “Effect of
Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES
Methodology”. If any user emphasis on security then he can use
our proposed algorithm. Our method is essentially block cipher
method and it will take less time if the file size is large. The
important thing of our proposed method is that it is almost
impossible to break the encryption algorithm without knowing
the exact key value. We propose that this encryption method can
be applied for data encryption and decryption in any type of
public application for sending confidential data. 
 conclusionrp
[1] Dripto Chatterjee, Joyshree Nath, Suvadeep Dasgupta,
Asoke Nath “A new Symmetric key Cryptography Algorithm
using extended MSA method: DJSA symmetric key algorithm”
published in 2011 International Conference on Communication
Systems and Network Technologies, 978-0-7695-4437-3/11
$26.00 © 2011 IEEE.
[2] Yan Wang and Ming Hu “Timing evaluation of the known
cryptographic algorithms “2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security 978-0-7695-3931-7/09
$26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CIS.2009.81.
[3] Symmetric key cryptography using random key generator,
A.Nath, S.Ghosh, M.A.Mallik, Proceedings of International
conference on SAM-2010 held at Las Vegas(USA) 12-15
July,2010, Vol-2,P-239-244.
[4] Data Hiding and Retrieval, A.Nath, S.Das, A.Chakrabarti,
Proceedings of IEEE International conference on Computer
Intelligence and Computer Network held at Bhopal from 26-28
Nov, 2010.
[5] Neal Koblitz “A Course in Number Theory and
Cryptography” Second Edition Published by Springer-Verlag.
[6] By Klaus Felten “An Algorithm for Symmetric
Cryptography with a wide range of scalability” published by
2nd International Workshop on Embedded Systems, Internet
Programming and Industial IT.
[7] Majdi Al-qdah & Lin Yi Hui “Simple
Encryption/Decryption Application” published in International
Journal of Computer Science and Security, Volume (1) : Issue
(1).
[8] T Morkel, JHP Eloff “ ENCRYPTION TECHNIQUES: A
TIMELINE APPROACH” published in Information and
Computer Security Architecture (ICSA) Research Group
proceeding.
[9] Text book William Stallings, Data and Computer
Communications, 6eWilliam 6e 2005.
[10] Md. Nazrul Islam, Md. Monir Hossain Mia, Muhammad F.
I. Chowdhury, M.A. Matin “Effect of Security Increment to
Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology” Ninth
ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering,
Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed
Computing 978-0-7695-3263-9/08 DOI
10.1109/SNPD.2008.101 IEEE 2008.
[11] [Rijn99]Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen, AES
submission document on Rijndael, Version 2, September 1999
referencesrp