A Review and Comparative Analysis of Various Encryption AlgorithmstitlerpNow days, Data security is very challenging issue that touches many areas including computers and communication. Recently, we came across many attacks on cyber security that have played with the confidentiality of the users. These attacks just broke all the security algorithms and affected the confidentiality, authentication, integrity, availability and identification of user data. Cryptography is one such way to make sure that confidentiality, authentication, integrity, availability and identification of user data can be maintained as well as security and privacy of data can be provided to the user. Encryption is the process of converting normal data or plaintext to something incomprehensible or cipher-text by applying mathematical transformations or formulae. These mathematical transformations or formulae used for encryption processes are called algorithms. We have analysed ten data encryption algorithms DES, Triple DES, RSA, AES, ECC, BLOWFISH, TWOFISH, THREEFISH, RC5 and IDEA etc. Among them DES, Triple DES, AES, RC5, BLOWFISH, TWOFISH, THREEFISH and IDEA are symmetric key cryptographic algorithms. RSA and ECC are asymmetric key cryptographic algorithms. In this paper, we have analysed various encryption algorithms on the basis of different parameters and compared them to choose the best data encryption algorithm so that we can use it in our future work.abstractrpSecurity, Cryptograph, Algorithm, Key, Cipher, Security attacks, NIST etc.keywordsrpCryptography algorithm is the technique or some formula that makes data or network secure by providing security. Cryptography is the science of devising methods that allow information to be sent in a secure form in such a way that the only person able to retrieve this information is the intended recipient. The highly use of networking leads to the data exchange over the network while communicating to one and another system. While communication it is very important to encrypt the message so that intruder cannot read the message. Network security is highly based on cryptography [18]. Basically, Cryptography is an art of hiding information by encrypting the message. The art of protecting information (encryption) it into an unreadable format (encrypted text), called cipher text. Only those who possess a secret key can de-cipher (decrypt) the message into plain text. The system in which first data(Plain text) in encrypted at sender side and decrypted into plain text again at receiver end using a unique key or some particular formula is called a Cryptographic system. Encrypted messages can sometimes be broken by cryptanalysis, also called code-breaking [26].Although modern cryptography techniques are virtually unbreakable. As the Internet and other forms of electronic communication become more prevalent, electronic security is becoming increasingly important. Cryptography is used to protect e-mail messages, credit card information, and corporate data. One of the most popular cryptography systems used on the Internet is Pretty Good Privacy because it's effective and free.
On the basis of the input data, cipher algorithms are classified as block ciphers, in which the size of the block is of fixed size for encryption and stream ciphers in which a continuous stream is passed for encryption and decryption. Among the algorithms taken under consideration, some of them are block cipher like RSA, DES, AES, Blowfish, Twofish, Threefish etc. and some of them are stream cipher i.e. ECC, RC5 etc.introductionrpIn this paper, we have analysed various encryption algorithms. We have found that each algorithm has its own benefits according to different parameters. From the work completed in this paper it is observed that that the strength of the each encryption algorithm depends upon the key management, type of cryptography, number of keys, number of bits used in a key. Longer the key length and data length more will be the power consumption that will lead to more heat dissipation. So, it is not advisable to use short data sequence and key lengths. All the keys are based upon the mathematical properties and their strength decreases with respect to time. The keys having more number of bits requires more computation time which simply indicates that the system takes more time to encrypt the data. From above analysis we have found that ECC and Blowfish, these two encryption algorithms are leading with the security level that they provide and faster encryption speed. ECC is having some attacks on it but on Blowfish, no attack is successful yet. So, from this review and analysis we have shortlisted ECC and Blowfish encryption algorithm. These two encryption algorithms are more secure and fast to work with and in future, there is wide scope of improvement in these both encryption algorithms.conclusionrp[1] D. Hakerson, A. Menezes and S. Vanston, “Guide to Elliptic Curve Cryptography”, Springer, (2004); Verlag, NY. [2] M. Kumar and E. G. Dharma, “A comparative analysis of symmetric key encryption algorithm”, IJARCET, vol. 3, no. 2, (2014). [3] I. Landge, T. Bharmal and P. Narwankar, “Encryption and decryption of data using two fish algorithm”, World Journal of Science and Technology, vol. 2, no. 3, (2012), pp. 157-161. [4] J. W. Cornwell, “Blowfish Survey”, Department of Computer Science, Columbus State University, Columbus. [5] E. Biham and A. shamir, "A differential cryptoanalysis of data encryption stamdard", Springer-verlag, (1993). [6] B. Schneier, “Description of a New Variable-Length Key, 64-Bit Block Cipher (Blowfish)”, [online] Available at: http://www.schneier.com/paper-blowfishfse.html. [7] S. Basuin, “International data encryption algorithm (idea) – a typical illustration”, Journal of global research in computer science (JGRCS), vol. 2, no 7, (2011). [8] A. Kakkar and M. L Singh, “Comparison of Various Encryption Algorithms and Techniques for Secured Data Communication in Multinode Network”, Published in International Journal of engg, and technology(IJET), vol. 2, no. 1, (2012). [9] J. Daemen, R. Govaerts and J. Vandewalle, “Weak Keys for IDEA”, Springer-Verlag, (1998). [10] M. Abutaha, M. Farajallah, R. Tahboub and M. Odeh, “Survey Paper: Cryptography Is the Science of Information Security”, published in International Journal of Computer Science and Security (IJCSS), vol. 5, no. 3, (2011). [11] M. Thaduri, S. Yoo and R. Gaede, “ An Efficient Implementation of IDEA encryption algorithm using VHDL”, Elsevier, (2004). [12] L. Singh and R. K. Bharti, "Comparative perfomance analysis of cyptographic algorithms", International journal of advanced research in computer science and software engineering (IJARCSSE), vol. 3, no. 11, (2013). [13] G. C. Kessler, “An Overview of Cryptography”, http://www.garykessler.net/library/crypto.html, (2006). [14] W. Stallings, "Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice", (1999), Prentice-Hall, New Jersey. [15] R. L. Rivest, “The RC5 Encryption Algorithm”, MIT laboratory for C.S, Cambridge. [16] K. Abdullah, “Research Commons at the University of Waikato”, http://waikato.researchgateway.ac.nz/. [17] W. Diffiee and M. Hellman, “New Directions in Cryptography”, IEEE Transaction Information Theory IT-22, (1976), pp. 644-654. [18] Text book William Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, 6eWilliam 6e, (2005).[19] R. L. Rivest, “The RC5 Encryption Algorithm”, Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Fast Software Encryption (FSE), (1994). [20] D. Coppersmith, "The data encryption standard (DES) and its strength against attacks", IBM Journal Research Develop., vol. 38, no. 3, (1994), pp. 243 -250. [21] J. V. Shanta, “Evaluating the performance of Symmetric Key Algorithms: AES (Advanced Encryption Standard ) and DES ( Data Encryption Standard ) in IJCEM International Journal of Computational Engineering & Management”, vol. 15, no. 4, (2012), pp.43-49. [22] A. Nadeem, “A performance comparison of data encryption algorithms”, IEEE information and Communication Technologies , (2006), pp. 84-89. [23] R. L. Rivest, “RC5 Encryption Algorithm”, Dr Dobbs Journal, vol. 226, (1995), pp. 146-148. [24] R. Davis, “The data encryption standard in perspective”, Communications Society Magazine, IEEE, (2003), pp. 5 – 9.
[25] Y. F. Huang, “Algorihtm for elliptic curve diffie-Hellman key exchange based on DNA title self assembly”, Proceedings of 46th IEEE Theories and Applications, (2008). [26] N. Islam, M. H. Mia, M. F. I. Chowdhury and M. A. Matin, “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology”, Ninth ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed Computing, (2008).referencesrp