A Hyper Modern Cryptography Algorithm to Improved Data Security: HMCAtitlerpIn this paper, we propose an improved block cipher symmetric encryption algorithm that has the same structure of encryption and decryption. So far, conventional cryptography algorithms have difference structure of encryption and decryption. We devise our algorithm by inserting a symmetric layer using random number, encryption number and XOR operations, in which the whole proposed algorithm rounds uses encryption procedure and the same for it decryption procedure. The symmetry layer is put between encryption part and decryption one. The proposed algorithm has the batter speed compared with the comparing encryption algorithm. Nevertheless, the proposed algorithm improves encryption security by inserting the symmetric layer. The proposed algorithm will be useful to the applications which require the same procedure of encryption and decryption.abstractrpInformation security, Encryption, Decryption, CryptographykeywordsrpThe main feature of the encryption/decryption program implementation is the generation of the encryption key. Now a day, cryptography has many commercial applications. If we are protecting confidential information then cryptography is provide high level of privacy of individuals and groups. However, the main purpose of the cryptography is used not only to provide confidentiality, but also to provide solutions for other problems like: data integrity, authentication, non-repudiation. Cryptography is the methods that allow information to be sent in a secure form in such a way that the only receiver able to retrieve this information. Presently continuous researches on the new cryptographic algorithms are going on. However, it is a very difficult to find out the specific algorithm, because we have already known that they must consider many factors like: security, the features of algorithm, the time complexity and space complexity. Figure 1 is representing conventional encryption model.Security Services: If we are taking about security of information then following services come in mind.
Confidentiality (privacy)
Authentication (who created or sent the data)
Integrity (has not been altered)
Non-repudiation (the order is final)
Access control (prevent misuse of resources)
Availability (permanence, non-erasure)
Terminology on Cryptography:- Ciphers vs. Codes: Ciphers are based on the individual characters in a message, and generally translate letter to another letter or symbol. On the other hand, codes translate whole words or phrases where “hello” could be the code for “tomto” or “my self this” could be code for “yes you can do”.
Cryptography vs. Steganography: Cryptography and steganography are also regularly confused. Steganography involves concealing the existence of a message such as invisible inks or messages buried within other messages. Cryptography does not conceal the fact that a message exists; cryptography conceals the meaning of the message from those who do not know how to decipher it.introductionrpFrom the result its is clear that our “proposed technique” is batter result producing as compared “DJSA symmetric key algorithm” and “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology”. If any user emphasis on security then he can use our proposed algorithm. Our method is essentially block cipher method and it will take less time if the file size is large. The important thing of our proposed method is that it is almost impossible to break the encryption algorithm without knowing the exact key value. We propose that this encryption method can be applied for data encryption and decryption in any type of public application for sending confidential data.conclusionrp[1] Dripto Chatterjee, Joyshree Nath, Suvadeep Dasgupta, Asoke Nath “A new Symmetric key Cryptography Algorithm using extended MSA method: DJSA symmetric key algorithm” published in 2011 International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies, 978-0-7695-4437-3/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE. [2] Yan Wang and Ming Hu “Timing evaluation of the known cryptographic algorithms “2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security 978-0-7695-3931-7/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CIS.2009.81. [3] Symmetric key cryptography using random key generator, A.Nath, S.Ghosh, M.A.Mallik, Proceedings of International conference on SAM-2010 held at Las Vegas(USA) 12-15 July,2010, Vol-2,P-239-244. [4] Data Hiding and Retrieval, A.Nath, S.Das, A.Chakrabarti, Proceedings of IEEE International conference on Computer Intelligence and Computer Network held at Bhopal from 26-28 Nov, 2010. [5] Neal Koblitz “A Course in Number Theory and Cryptography” Second Edition Published by Springer-Verlag. [6] By Klaus Felten “An Algorithm for Symmetric Cryptography with a wide range of scalability” published by 2nd International Workshop on Embedded Systems, Internet Programming and Industial IT. [7] Majdi Al-qdah & Lin Yi Hui “Simple Encryption/Decryption Application” published in International Journal of Computer Science and Security, Volume (1) : Issue (1). [8] T Morkel, JHP Eloff “ ENCRYPTION TECHNIQUES: A TIMELINE APPROACH” published in Information and Computer Security Architecture (ICSA) Research Group proceeding. [9] Text book William Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, 6eWilliam 6e 2005. [10] Md. Nazrul Islam, Md. Monir Hossain Mia, Muhammad F. I. Chowdhury, M.A. Matin “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology” Ninth ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed Computing 978-0-7695-3263-9/08 DOI 10.1109/SNPD.2008.101 IEEE 2008. [11] [Rijn99]Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen, AES submission document on Rijndael, Version 2, September 1999.referencesrp