Password Authentication Key Exchange By Two Server Password Only in Web Applications.titlerpIn the world of communication there is need of secure transmission of message so password based authentication make a client and a server to authenticate and established a session key through Deffie Hellman and ElGamal protocol. In single server architecture, passwords are stored in single server only, if it got hacked through attack, the password will get easily accessed by the intruder .To solve this problem two server with password authenticated key exchange is used where symmetric or asymmetric way is applied .So in the symmetric protocol which is used to initialized our secure transmission ,client can form cryptographic keys in two servers. The efficiency of protocol is better ,It is cost effective and lead to parallel execution of servers which are included for registration and authentication.abstractrpDeffie Hellman protocol, ElGamal encryption, two passwords onlykeywordsrpHacking and intrusion are the major problems in secure transmission of messages between server and client, which can be easily done through comprimisation of server. One other way to break the security is by guessing the passwords also the hash values can be guessed which the easiest way is for attacker which is commonly used or followed by most. Preliminary studies cover the concept of online and offline attacks ,majorly they are grouped under dictionary attacks. Here offline attacks are faster in speed of guessing the password. Offline attacks are the passive attacks in which attacker try to guess the password from the conversation or communication made between two parties and guess the attacks from the dictionary. Online attacks the attacker guess the password through dictionary and tries to login. Online attempts made to guess the password is also called as active attacks .These both types of attack should be avoided in client server communication. The main aim in server and client architecture is that client’s passwords are maintained to server only. When that server gets hacked then security in the transmission of message will be reduced.. The architecture which is best suited is the public key Infrastructure and the model used is PKI model.
PKI model is used for password protection. It enables users to securely and privately exchange data with the use of public and private key pair. The digital certificate .It uses the public key cryptography. The password only authenticated key exchange uses short password of user.
The second model which is password only model, where password is the secret key for encryption of random selected numbers which is considered as a benchmark for the cryptographic assumption. Here the main concept is the user has to remember the password every communication done is based on important factor that is password as it doesn’t require any external storage.introductionrpThe protocol which will be used in proposed system gives the password authentication .Key exchange in a secure way. The communication of two servers is symmetric and computation rounds are less due to parallel working of two servers whose comprimization is avoided on the basis of the assumption in DDH and CDH.Thus the system is secure against the active and passive attack thus increasing its efficiency.conclusionrp[1] Xun Yi, San Ling, and Huaxiong Wang ,”Efficient Two-Server Password-Only Authenticated Key Exchange”,IEEE Transactions On Parallel And Distributed Systems, Vol. 24, No. 9, September 2013
[2] Y. Yang, R.H. Deng, and F. Bao, “Fortifying Password Authentication in Integrated Healthcare Delivery Systems,” Proc. ACM Symp. Information, Computer and Comm. Security (ASIACCS ’06), pp. 255- 265, 2006.
[3] M. Abdalla and D. Pointcheval, “Simple Password-Based Encrypted Key Exchange Protocols,” Proc. Int’l Conf. Topics in Cryptology (CT-RSA), pp. 191-208, 2005.
[4] Y. Yang, F. Bao, and R.H. Deng, “A New Architecture for Authentication and Key Exchange Using Password for Federated Enterprise,” Proc. 20th IFIP Int’l Information Security Conf. (SEC ’05), pp. 95-111, 2005.
[5] D. Boneh and M. Franklin, “Identity Based Encryption from the Weil Pairing,” SIAM J. Computing, vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 586-615, 2003.
[6] M. Di Raimondo and R. Gennaro, “Provably Secure Threshold Password Authenticated Key Exchange,” Proc. 22nd Int’l Conf. Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques (Eurocrypt ’03), pp. 507-523, 2003.
[7] J. Brainard, A. Jueles, B.S. Kaliski, and M. Szydlo, “A New Two- Server Approach forAuthentication with Short Secret,” Proc. 12th Conf. USENIX Security Symp., pp. 201-214, 2003.
[8] P. MacKenzie, S. Patel, and R. Swaminathan, “Password-Authenticated Key Exchange Based on RSA,” Proc. Sixth Int’l Conf. Theory and Application of Cryptology and Information Security: Advances inCryptology (Asiacrypt ’00), pp. 599-613, 2000.
[9] L. Gong, T.M.A. Lomas, R.M. Needham, and J.H. Saltzer, “Protecting Poorly-Chosen Secret from Guessing Attacks,” IEEE J. Selected Areas in Comm., vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 648-656, June 1993.referencesrp