A FORMAL CLASSIFICATION OF INTERNET
BANKING ATTACKS AND VULNERABILITIEStitlerpA formal classification of attacks and vulnerabilities that affect current internet banking systems is
presented along with two attacks which demonstrate the insecurity of such systems. Based ona thorough
analysis of current security models, we propose a guidelines for designing secure internet banking
systems which are not affected by the presented attacks and vulnerabilities.abstractrpInternet banking, e-bank, online bank, identification, authentication, authorization.keywordsrpCurrently there is a clear need for efficient security models by banks which offer online access
to their banking systems [20]. In face of the growing number of transactions processed through
online banking systems, several new security technologies and models which aim at providing
authenticated secure communications through known insecure channels have been introduced
in current literature [16].
The number of malware and exploits focused on online banking systems vulnerabilities has
been steadily growing during past years [19]. Recent reports [22] indicate that banking trojans
were among the 50 main security threats in 2009, while Brazil fiures as the source and
destination of most of those attacks performed in Latin America[30].
In order to propose security models and solutions in general it is first necessary to understand
and properly classify the existing attack techniques and the vulnerabilities on which they are
based. Such characterization must be conducted taking into consideration the external factors
that affect security and the intrinsic trust relation between users and providers of online banking
services. Furthermore, it must be considered the responsibility for maintaining security is
always transferred to the weakest link in the security chain, which means, in most cases, the
final user. In this paper we present a formal analysis and classification of the several
vulnerabilities and attacks that affect online banking systems.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: the current security models for online banking are
discussed in sections 2 and 3. In section 4, we present a comparative analysis of the solutions
currently adopted by banking institutions and their inherent vulnerabilities. In section 5, attack
modelling is introduced and we describe efficient attacks against currently adopted solutions. In
section 6, the countermeasures necessary to thwart the presented attacks are introduced. Finally,
in section 7, we conclude with suggestions for future works.introductionrpThe security models for online banking systems currently in use are strongly based on Internet
banking user identification and authentication methods, which are also the components where
most Internet banking systems' vulnerabilities are found. The aforementioned methods depend
on the user's knowledge of secret authentication information and the user's ability for
maintaining both this information and the device used to access internet banking services
secure. If the user's platform (i.e. computing devices, operating systems and applications) is
compromised, the banking system is compromised as a whole, allowing the execution of
fraudulent transactions. As result of these issues, most of the online banking systems currently
in operation may be compromised and subverted. Two attacks which efficiently render current
security models ineffective are presented, demonstrating how vulnerable internet banking
systems are.
Most of the attacks directed at online banking systems target the user (the weakest link in the
chain), focusing on obtaining authentication and identification information through the use of
social engineering and compromising the user's Internet banking access device in order to
install malware which automatically performs banking transactions, apart from obtaining
authentication data. This fact indicates that secure internet banking systems should provide
security mechanisms as user independent as possible, mitigating the risk of user related
informations leaks and security issues affecting the system and leading to fraud.
In face of the current security issues and the growing number of attacks and consequent frauds,
new internet banking systems should be designed as to provide better authentication and
identification methods which are less dependent on the user. The basic characteristics of such
methods are introduced based on the analysis the methods currently employed. A internet
banking systems with those characteristics will render the presented attacks (and other attacks)
ineffective, significantly decreasing the number of observed frauds.As a future work, a new internet banking system could be developed along with a new security
model which provide the security requisites introduced in this paper. Furthermore, efficient
techniques for real-time fraud and attacks detections could be proposed based on efficient data
mining and pattern recognition methods.conclusionrp[1] ISO/IEC 27002 Code of practice for information security management. 2. ed. Rio de Janeiro: ABNT,
2007.
[2] ISO/IEC. 27001 Information security management systems Requirement. Rio de Janeiro: ABNT,
2007.
[3] CAVUSOGLU, Hasan e Cavusoglu, Huseyin. Emerging Issues in Responsible Vulnerability
Disclosure. Workshop on Information Technology and Systems (WITS 2004). Barcelona, Spain, 2004.
[4] GOGUEN, Alice; Feringa, Alexis; Stoneburner, Gary. Risk Management Guide for Information
Technology Systems [Report]. Computer Security Division Information Technology Laboratory ;
National Institute of Standards and Technology Gaithersburg. Nist Special Publication 800, Julho 2002.
[5] KOSSEW, David. State of the Art Security in Internet Banking [Peridico]. 1997.
[6] MARSH, Stephen P. Formalising Trus as a Computational Concept. Tese (Doutorado). University of
Stirling. - Scotland, UK, 1994. - p. 198.
[7] MICROSOFT, An in-depth perspective on software vulnerabilities and exploits, malicious code
threats, and potentially unwanted software, focusing on the first half of 2008 [Report]. Security
Intelligence Report, January through June 2008.
[8] PEOTTA, Laerte; Amaral, Dino. Estudo de taxonomia de ataques e atacantes em um honeypot de
alta interao. Proceedings of the First International Conference on Forensic Computer Science
Investigation, Braslia, pp. 38-42, ISSN 1980-1114, 2007.
[9] WEEKS, Stephen. Understanding Trust Management Systems. IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy. 2001.
[10] O. Dandash, P. Dung Le, and B. Srinivasan, Internet banking payment protocol with fraud
prevention, 2007 22nd International International Symposium on Computer and Information Sciences,
Nov. 2007, pp. 1-6.
[11] YAHALOM, R.; Klein, B. ; Beth, T. Trust Relationships in Secure Systems-A Distributed
Authentication Perspective. IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. Washington, DC : IEEE
Computer Society, May 24-26, 1993.
[12] V. Bertol, R.T. Jr, and L.P. Melo, "Um Modelo Para As Normas Sobre Certificacao Digital No
Brasil," Procedings of the Four International Conference on Forensic Computer Science Investigation
(ICoFCS'2009), 2009.
[13] L. Granville, L. Tarouco, and R.R. Barcelos, "Taxonomia de Malwares : Uma Avaliacao dos
Malwares Automaticamente Propagados na Rede," Sbseg 2009, Campinas - So Paulo: 2009, pp. 43-56.
[14] CORREIA, M. A. S. et al. Segurana em Internet Banking. XIII Simposio Brasileiro em Seguranca
da Informacao e Sistemas Computacionais (SBseg), Gramado - RS, 2008. 291-299.
[15] G. Dalton, R. Mills, J. Colombi, and R. Raines, "Analyzing Attack Trees using Generalized
Stochastic Petri Nets," 2006 IEEE Information Assurance Workshop, 2006, pp. 116-123.
[16] DANDASH, O.; DUNG, P. ; SRINIVASAN, B. Security Analysis for Internet Banking Models.
Eighth ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and
Parallel/Distributed Computing. [S.l.]: [s.n.]. 2007. p. 1141 - 1146.
[17] FINJAN MALICIOUS CODE RESEARCH CENTER. Cybercrime Intelligence: Cybercriminals
use Trojans & Money Mules to rob online banking accounts. [S.l.]. 2009.
[18] HALLER, N. A One-Time Password System (RFC 2289). Internet Engineering Task Force. [S.l.].
1998.
[19] MICROSOFT. An in-depth perspective on software vulnerabilities and exploits, malicious code
threats, and potentially unwanted software, focusing on the first half of 2008. [S.l.]. 2008. January
through June.[20] NAMI, M. R. E-Banking: Issues and Challenges. 10th ACIS International Conference on Software
Engineering, Artificial Intelligences, Networking and Parallel/Distributed Computing, 2009. 263-267.
[21] NILSSON, M. A. A.; HERD, S. Building Security and Trust in Online Banking. Conference for
human-computer interaction. Portland - Oregon - USA: [s.n.]. 2005.
[22] SYMANTEC. Relatorio Sobre Ameacas de Seguranca na Internet. Symantec - America Latina.
[S.l.]. 2010.
[23] T. T. et al. Modeling Internet Attacks. Wordshop on Information Assurance and Security. NY:
IEEE. 2001.
[24] A.S. Martino and X. Perramon, A Model for Securing E-Banking Authentication Process:
Antiphishing Approach, 2008 IEEE Congress on Services - Part I, Jul. 2008, pp. 251-254.
[25] A.S. Martino and X. Perramon, Defending E-Banking Services: Antiphishing Approach, 2008
Second International Conference on Emerging Security Information, Systems and Technologies, Aug.
2008, pp. 93-98.
[26] WANG, H.; HUANG, X.; DODDA, R. G. Ticket-based mobile commerce system and its
implementation. Q2SWinet '06: Proceedings of the 2nd ACM international workshop on Quality of
service & security for wireless and mobile networks. Terromolinos, Spain: ACM. 2006. p. 119--122.
[27] WEIMING, G. et al. Falcon: on-line monitoring and steering of large-scale parallel programs.
FRONTIERS '95: Proceedings of the Fifth Symposium on the Frontiers of Massively Parallel
Computation (Frontiers'95). Washington, DC, USA: IEEE Computer Society. 1995. p. 422.
[28] YAN, J.; EL, A.; SALAH,. Usability of CAPTCHAs or usability issues in CAPTCHA design.
SOUPS '08: Proceedings of the 4th symposium on Usable privacy and security. New York, NY, USA:
ACM. 2008. p. 44--52.
[29] M. JOHNSON, A new approach to Internet banking. University Cambridge. (PhD) 2008, p. 113.
[30] Carneiro, B. and Sousa, R. T., Identifying Bank Frauds Using Crisp-DM And Decision Trees,
International Journal of Computer Science & Information Technology . October, vol. 2, 2010, pp. 162-
169referencesrp