An Enhanced Symmetric Key Cryptography Algorithm to Improve Data SecuritytitlerpThis work uses enhanced symmetric key encryption algorithm, in which same structure of encryption and decryption procedure algorithm is used. In conventional encryption methods the key for encryption and decryption is same and remain secret. The algorithm uses key generation method by random number in algorithm for increasing efficiency of algorithm. The algorithm use key size of 512 bits for providing better security and it also provide the concept of internal key generation at receiver end on the basis of 512 bits key which will entered by the sender. This internal key will store in the sender end database and send to the receiver end by other path for preventing brute force attack and other harmful attacks on security. This algorithm is more efficient for large data where existing algorithms provides efficient encryption and decryption only for 2MB data. This work provides better speed in comparison to existing algorithms for large size of files with less overhead.abstractrpInformation security, Encryption, Decryption, Cryptography, Brute force attack.keywordsrpCryptography has an important role for preventing private data from being stolen. Encryption and decryption are the synonym of Cryptography. Encryption is the process that converts plain text into cipher text by using encryption algorithms with key that process performed on sender end and decryption is the reverse process of encryption performed on receiver end [9]. The main feature of the encryption/decryption program implementation is the generation of the encryption key. Now a day, cryptography has many commercial applications. If anyone is protecting confidential information then cryptography provides high level of privacy of individuals and groups. However, the main purpose of the cryptography is not to only provide confidentiality, but also to give solutions for other problems like: Integrity of data, authentication and non-repudiation. Cryptography is the method that allows information to be sent in a secure form in such a way that the only receiver is able to retrieve this information. Presently continuous researches on the new cryptographic algorithms are going on. However, it is very difficult to find out the specific algorithm, because they must consider many factors like: security, the features of algorithm, the time complexity and space complexity. Figure 1 is representing conventional encryption model.Security Services: If any security algorithm providing security of information then following voices come in mind.
Confidentiality
Authentication
Integrity
Non-repudiation
Access control Availability introductionrpThe result comparison shows that “proposed technique” gives better result as compared “BP1” and “BP2”. When users are focusing on security then they can select proposed algorithm for better result with less time complexity. Proposed method is essentially block cipher method and it will take less time with providing security if the file size is large. Where existing algorithms efficiently works with 2 Mb file. The important feature of our proposed method is that it is almost impossible to break the encryption algorithm without knowing the exact key value because of internal key generation with the reference of entered key. The proposed method for both encryption and decryption can be applied for any type of public application for sending confidential data and by sending internal key to the sender by using another secured path to the receiver. Proposed method prevents data from attackers and claim for less time complexity with large data. So it provides useful application in the field of network security.conclusionrp[1] Dripto Chatterjee, Joyshree Nath, Suvadeep Dasgupta, Asoke Nath “A new Symmetric key Cryptography Algorithm using extended MSA method: DJSA symmetric key algorithm” published in 2011 International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies, 978-0-7695-4437-3/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE. [2] Yan Wang and Ming Hu “Timing evaluation of the known cryptographic algorithms “2009 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Security 978-0-7695-3931-7/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE DOI 10.1109/CIS.2009.81. [3] Symmetric key cryptography using random key generator, A.Nath, S.Ghosh, M.A.Mallik, Proceedings of International conference on SAM-2010 held at Las Vegas (USA) 12-15 July, 2010, Vol-2, and P-239-244. [4] Data Hiding and Retrieval, A.Nath, S.Das, A.Chakrabarti, Proceedings of IEEE International conference on Computer Intelligence and Computer Network held at Bhopal from 26-28 Nov, 2010.
[5] Neal Koblitz “A Course in Number Theory and Cryptography” Second Edition Published by Springer-Verlag.
[6] By Klaus Felten “An Algorithm for Symmetric Cryptography with a wide range of scalability” published by 2nd International Workshop on Embedded Systems, Internet Programming and Industial IT.
[7] Majdi Al-qdah & Lin Yi Hui “Simple Encryption/Decryption Application” published in International Journal of Computer Science and Security, Volume (1): Issue (1).
[8] T Morkel, JHP Eloff “ENCRYPTION TECHNIQUES: A TIMELINE APPROACH” published in Information and Computer Security Architecture (ICSA) Research Group proceeding.
[9] Text book William Stallings, Data and Computer Communications, 6eWilliam 6e 2005.
[10] Md. Nazrul Islam, Md. Monir Hossain Mia, Muhammad F. I. Chowdhury, M.A. Matin “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology” Ninth ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed Computing 978-0-7695-3263-9/08 DOI 10.1109/SNPD.2008.101 IEEE 2008.
[11] [Rijn99] Joan Daemen and Vincent Rijmen, AES submission document on Rijndael, Version 2, September 1999.referencesrp