Alternative Graphical Authentication for Online
Banking EnvironmentstitlerpMany financial institutes tend to implement a secure authentication mechanism through the
utilization of the One-Time-Password (OTP) technique. The use of a hardware security token
to generate the required OTP has been widespread. Despite the fact that this method provides a
fairly high level of security, many systems have not taken into consideration the need for a
secure alternative login method whenever the hardware token is unavailable. This paper
discusses the authentication issues associated with current e-banking login implementations
when the hardware security token is unavailable. The study was supported by a user survey to
realize the constraints confronting the user while logging in to their online banking system.
The result showed that many online banking users had multiple accounts and found carrying
around several security tokens is inconvenient. Moreover, high proportion of the users had
confidently accepted the concept of one-time graphical password as an alternative means of
authentication. Therefore, a potential solution has been introduced along with a conceptual
discussion. The proposal aims to consolidate several authentication mechanisms to unite their
various advantages into one robust authentication system with consideration of usability. The
composite mechanism comprises of a One-Time-Password combined with graphic-based
authentication techniques.abstractrpAlternative authentication, User authentication security, Online banking
authentication, Graphical password, One-Time-PasswordkeywordsrpOnline banking, also known as Internet banking, is a means of delivering banking
services electronically to customers. Online banking services include accessing
account information, the transfer of funds between different accounts and making
electronic payments and settlements (Dube & Gulati, 2005; FFIEC, 2003). The
popularity of online banking is growing, but it is now faced with major challenges,
one of which is the high risk of data compromise. Thus, in order to minimize the
threats to online banking and at the same time increase customer security, confidence
and acceptance of this electronic service channel, the online accounts of customers
must be securely protected via enhancing user authentication without adversely
impacting upon the users’ experience (Williamson & Money–America’s, 2006).As reported by Verizon (2013), 37% of breaches in 2013 affected financial
organizations, which increased by about 10% compared with the previous year’s
report. Crime against the finance industry involved various type of common attacks
such as tampering (physical), brute force (hacking), and spyware (malware). The
target of such breaches was mostly payment cards, credentials, and bank account
info. Basically, gaining unauthorized access in an easy and less-detectable way is
possible through leveraging other’s authorization access. Moreover, an earlier report
(2012) showed that about four of every five breaches involving hacking was factored
by authentication-based attacks (guessing, cracking, or reusing valid credentials).
Authentication credentials theft presented a high value of loss as a result of
espionage-related breaches. About 80% of these attacks can be forced to adapt or die
whenever the idea of a suitable authentication replacement is collectively accepted.
The critical importance of securing the wide range of banking services being
deployed over the Internet is a major concern for both service providers and
customers. Thus, extreme caution is always paid to safeguarding the e-banking
system as well as customer information. The first line of defence is protecting the
authentication system from fraud and identity theft. Currently, the traditional textbased
password is the foremost knowledge-based authentication and the primary
form of user authentication (De Angeli et al., 2005; Fu et al., 2001) and while there
are many techniques to secure passwords (Pinkas & Sander, 2002), most are
insufficient in the face of attackers’ tools (Chakrabarti & Singbal, 2007;
AuthenticationWorld.com, 2012). The deficiencies of the textual password is wellknown
and affects both aspects of usability and security (Dhamija & Perrig, 2000;
Suo, Zhu & Owen, 2005). Therefore, the need for alternative methods has emerged
where various alternative knowledge-based techniques have been proposed, such as
graphic-based passwords (recognising graphical elements – e.g. images,
iconography, grids) (Gyorffy, Tappenden & Miller, 2011; Kuber & Yu, 2010) or
associative/cognitive questions (Zhao, Dong & Wang, 2006; Alexander, 2008). Each
approach has different aspects of strengths and weaknesses.
In crucial systems such as in financial organizations, robust security is constantly
demanded. One of the solutions to meet that goal is the One-Time-Password
approach. The idea of OTPs is to encode the password for a single use only;
producing a unique password for each login session or transaction. In other words,
the user will end up using different dynamic password for each login. Illegitimately
obtaining an OTP should be useless and helpless for attackers to generate any further
encoded passwords. Thus, managing to record or steal a used OTP would be totally
unusable for further login attempts since an OTP loses its validity (expire and
discard) after first use. This means that OTP systems are protected against replay
attacks (Yampolskiy, 2007; McDonald, Atkinson & Metz, 1995).
This paper aims to point out limitations in some authentication cases within the
online banking system and propose a potential solution to securely fill-in this gap
using the same web browser without the need for any additional devices. The
remainder of the paper proceeds with a brief review of some authentication features
provided by leading financial institutes. Section 3 then discusses the authentication problems in online banking. Section 4 presents the preliminary survey results that
investigate the authentication issues in online banking and gauge perceptions towards
alternative authentication methods. Section 5 gives a general introduction to our
proposed prototype of OTGP and conclusions and future work are addressed in
Section 6.introductionrpAn overview of various authentication features provided by some of the leading
banks has been presented and discussed. It was found that the adoption of multifactor
authentication using hardware token OTPs has increased. However, the study
has shown that there are some failures in fulfilling the login requirement using the
OTP method, even though the user experience with such a technique has been found
to be satisfactory. Furthermore, carrying around multiple security tokens to manage
several online accounts has been described as inconvenient and unnecessary. In this
paper, the issue of the absence of an alternative authentication method when the main
hardware OTP token is not present has been discussed. To overcome this issue, a
general conceptual structure of the proposed solution has been introduced involving
several authentication mechanisms such as graphic-based and One-Time-Password
that aim to meet the main objective of having a usable secure authentication
mechanism that is available anytime and anywhere without the need for additional
devices. The initial features and advantages of the OTGP scheme were briefly
presented. The next phase will look at system implementation with initial user trials and lab experiments. Statistical data such as time, security level, and password
memorability over time intervals will be some of the outputs of the experiment.
Upon the assumption of positive results from the initial trials, the final phase of the
OTGP project will then expand the study through a field experiment to obtain a
wider range of participants for more accurate results.conclusionrpAlexander, C. (2008) 'Two Factor Authentication That Doesn’t Use Chips'. Card Technology
Today, 20 (5). pp 9.
Anderson, R. J. (2001) 'Access Control'. Security Engineering: A guide to building
dependable distributed systems. 1st edn.: Wiley, pp 51-71.
AuthenticationWorld.com (2012) Password Authentication. Available at:
http://authenticationworld.com/Password-Authentication/index.html (Accessed: 02/04/2014).
Chakrabarti, S. & Singbal, M. (2007) 'Password-Based Authentication: Preventing Dictionary
Attacks'. Computer, 40 (6). pp 68-74.
De Angeli, A., Coventry, L., Johnson, G. & Renaud, K. (2005) 'Is a Picture Really Worth a
Thousand Words? Exploring the Feasibility of Graphical Authentication Systems'.
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 63 (1–2). pp 128-152.
Dhamija, R. & Perrig, A. (2000) 'Déjà vu: A User Study Using Images for Authentication', the
9th USENIX Security Symposium. pp. 45-58.
Dube, D. & Gulati, V. P. (2005) 'Information System Audit and Assurance'. (Appendix B). pp
594.
FFIEC (2003) 'FFIEC E-Banking Booklet'. [Online]. Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council. Available at: http://www.isaca.org/Groups/Professional-English/itaudit-
tools-and-techniques/GroupDocuments/e_banking.pdf (Accessed: 02/04/2014).
Fu, K., Sit, E., Smith, K. & Feamster, N. (2001) 'Dos and Don'ts of Client Authentication on
The Web', Proceedings of the 10th conference on USENIX Security Symposium. Washington,
D.C. USENIX Association, pp. 19-19.
Furnell, S. (2005) 'Authenticating Ourselves: Will We Ever Escape the Password?'. Network
Security, 2005 (3). pp 8-13.
Furnell, S. & Zekri, L. (2006) 'Replacing Passwords: In Search of the Secret Remedy'.
Network Security, 2006 (1). pp 4-8.
Gyorffy, J. C., Tappenden, A. F. & Miller, J. (2011) 'Token-based Graphical Password
Authentication'. International Journal of Information Security, pp 1-16.
Kuber, R. & Yu, W. (2010) 'Feasibility Study of Tactile-based Authentication'. International
Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 68 (3). pp 158-181.
McDonald, D. L., Atkinson, R. J. & Metz, C. (1995) 'One Time Passwords in Everything
(OPIE): Experiences with Building and Using Stronger Authentication', the Proceedings of
the 5th USENIX Security Symposium. Salt Lake City, Utah.Pinkas, B. & Sander, T. (2002) 'Securing Passwords Against Dictionary Attacks', Proceedings
of the 9th ACM conference on Computer and communications security. ACM, pp. 161-170.
Ray, P. P. (2012) 'Ray's Scheme: Graphical Password Based Hybrid Authentication System
for Smart Hand Held Devices'. Journal of Information Engineering and Applications, 2 (2). pp
1-11.
relbanks.com (2012) Banks Around the World. Available at: http://www.relbanks.com
(Accessed: 02/4/2014).
RBS (2014) Will I be charged for any mobile phone text alert messages I may get? - Ask a
Question. The Royal Bank of Scotland ©. Available at: http://supportcentrerbs.
custhelp.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/745/kw/network%20operator (Accessed:
12/4/2014).
Suo, X., Zhu, Y. & Owen, G. S. (2005) 'Graphical Passwords: A Survey', Computer Security
Applications Conference, 21st Annual. 5-9 Dec. 2005. pp. 10 pp.-472.
Verizon (2013) 2013 Data Breach Investigations Report. Verizon Enterprise Security
Solutions. Available at: http://www.verizonenterprise.com/resources/reports/rp_data-breachinvestigations-
report-2013_en_xg.pdf (Accessed: 02/04/2014).
Weir, C. S., Douglas, G., Richardson, T. & Jack, M. (2010) 'Usable Security: User Preferences
for Authentication Methods in eBanking and the Effects of Experience'. Interacting with
Computers, 22 (3). pp 153-164.
Williamson, G. D. & Money–America’s, G. (2006) 'Enhanced Authentication in online
Banking'. Journal of Economic Crime Management, 4 (2).
Yampolskiy, R. V. (2007) 'User Authentication via Behavior Based Passwords', Systems,
Applications and Technology Conference, 2007. LISAT 2007. IEEE Long Island. 4-4 May
2007. pp. 1-8.
Zhao, Z., Dong, Z. & Wang, Y. (2006) 'Security Analysis of a Password-based Authentication
Protocol Proposed to IEEE 1363'. Theoretical Computer Science, 352 (1–3). pp 280-287.referencesrp