Comparative Analysis of Cryptographic Algorithms and Advanced Cryptographic AlgorithmstitlerpToday is the era of Internet and networks applications. So,Information security is a challenging issue in today’s technological world. There is a demand for a stronger encryption which is very hard to crack. The role of Cryptography is most important in the field of network security. There is a broad range of cryptographic algorithms that are used for securing networks and presently continuous researches on the new cryptographic algorithms are going on for evolving more advanced techniques for secures
communication. In this study is made for the cryptography algorithms, particularly algorithms- AES, DES, RSA, Blowfishare compared and performance is evaluated. Also some enhanced algorithms are described and compared with the enhanced algorithms.abstractrpAES, DES, BLOWFISH, Decryption, Encryption, SecuritykeywordsrpCryptography is a word with Greek origins, means“secret writing”. However it is the science andart totransform the messages to make the secure andimmune against security attacks. It is the technique toprovide secure communication in presence of adversaries to maintain information securities such asdata confidentiality, data integrity, authentication,and non-repudiation. The process to convert ordinaryinformation or the plain text into unintelligible text orthe cipher text in cryptography is called encryption.The cipher text is understandable only to someonewho knows how to decrypt it. The message orinformation is encrypted using an encryptionalgorithm. This is usually done with the use ofan encryption key, which specifies how the messageis to be encoded. Any adversary that can see thecipher text should not be able to determine anythingabout the original message. An authorized party,however, is able to decode the cipher text usinga decryption algorithm which usually requiresa secret decryption key.There are number of cryptographic algorithms used for encryption data and most of all fall into two generic categories – Public key system and secret key system. Symmetric key algorithm is known as secrecy key or shared key algorithm. Because in symmetric key algorithm a shared key does both the encryption and decryption only one key is used for doing everything.So the success of algorithm depends on two factors-secrecy of the key and its distribution. Symmetric algorithms are: Data Encryption Standard (DES), Triple DES (3DES), International Data Encryption algorithm (IDEA), Blowfish, AdvancedEncryption Standard (AES). Asymmetric key algorithm is also known as public key algorithm. In this algorithm, there are two keys public and private used for encryption and decryption. Public key is used to encrypt the message and private key is used to decrypt the message. Asymmetric algorithms are: Diffie-Hellman and RSA Public Key Encryption.introductionrpCryptography algorithm is the science in secret code. Rapidly rising cybercrime and the growing prospect of the internet being used as a medium for attacks create a major challenge for network security. Some well-known cryptographicalgorithms have been analyzed in this paper to demonstrate the basic differences between the existing encryption techniques.It was concluded that Blowfish has better performance than AES in terms of Average time.“Byte – Rotation Encryption Algorithm (BREA)” allows all the blocks to processparallel in CPU. Because of parallel execution, theprocessing speed of the system will enhance. Encryption algorithm using fuzzy logic which can provideeither low processing or high security according to user’s requirement which will be more advanced than theexisting encryption algorithms. From the result it is clear that our “Advanced technique” is batter result producing as compared “DJSA symmetric key algorithm” and “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology”. If any user emphasis on security then he can use our proposed algorithm. No one can guarantee 100% security. But we can work toward 100% risk acceptance. A good cryptographic system strikes a balance between what is possible and what is acceptable. Thus considerable research effort is still required for secured communication.conclusionrp[1] AtulKahate “cryptography and network security”, Tata McGraw-Hill publishing company, New Delhi, 2008.
[2] William Stallings, “Network Security Essentials(Applications and Standards)”, Pearson Education,2004.
[3] W. Stallings, “Cryptography and Network Security”, Prentice Hall, 1995.
[4] National Bureau of Standards, “Data EncryptionStandard, ” FIPS Publication 46, 1977.
[5] DriptoChatterjee, JoyshreeNath, SuvadeepDasgupta, AsokeNath “A new Symmetric key Cryptography Algorithm using extended MSA method: DJSA symmetric key algorithm” published in 2011 International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies, 978-0-7695-4437-3/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE.
[6] B. Schneier, Applied Cryptography, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1994
[7] SairamNatarajan #1,“A Novel Approachfor Data Security Enhancement Using MultiLevel Encryption scheme”, Researchpaper, IJCSIT, Vol. 2 (1), 2011, 469-473.
[8] Symmetric key cryptography using random key generator, A.Nath, S.Ghosh, M.A.Mallik, Proceedings of International conference on SAM-2010 held at Las Vegas(USA) 12-15 July,2010, Vol-2,P-239-244.
[9] Neal Koblitz “A Course in Number Theory and Cryptography” Second Edition Published by Springer-Verlag.
[10] By Klaus Felten “An Algorithm for Symmetric Cryptography with a wide range of scalability” published by 2nd International Workshop on Embedded Systems, Internet Programming and Industial IT.referencesrp