A New Encryption Algorithm to Increase Performance & Security through Block Cipher TechniquetitlerpData Security is the process of providing protection to the important information transferred over the network. Cryptography plays a very vital role in enhancing the security of any information or the data .This dissertation work aim to design and implement such a system that provides complete authenticity and confidentiality over the open network. The proposed system works over the implementation of new block cipher cryptography along with its comparison to other block cipher algorithm over efficiency.abstractrpEncryption, decryption, cryptography, MSA, AESkeywordsrpInformation is an asset, which like other important business asset values to an organization. And consequently needs to be suitably protected. Information can be created, lost, processed, stored and corrupted. Cryptography plays a very important role in securing data over the network. Cryptography comprises of some basic terms:
Confidentiality (privacy- Assurance)
Authentication ( claimed user only)
Integrity (data is not disturbed by an unauthenticated person)
Non-repudiation (denial protection)
Access Control (prevents misuse of resource)
Availability(performance, non-erasure)
1. Cryptography basically works over two algorithms Encryption and Decryption algorithm. Encryption converts plain text in to cipher text i.e. readable data in to unreadable data, where as Decryption performs the vice versa. This Encryption-Decryption process is performed with the help of a unique key. Depending over the key, algorithms is been divided in to two major categories- Symmetric key encryption and asymmetric key encryption. Symmetric algorithm uses only one key for encryption and decryption, such key is considered as private key. On the other hand Asymmetric algorithm uses two keys one for encryption (public key) and one for decryption (Private Key).In symmetric key or secret key encryption, strength of key is depended over the size of the key used. For the same algorithm, encryption using longer key is harder to break than the one done using smaller key. Asymmetric Encryption techniques are almost 1000 times slower than symmetric technique, because they require more computational process. Thus there is a need for an algorithm to have good efficiency along with less response time, less battery power consumption and less memory utilization. Hence the proposed approach tries to work over these factors.introductionrpThe difference of efficiency between proposed and the existing algorithm is very high. The security, efficiency, CPU Utilization is of primary concern. The proposed encryption algorithm is very simple, direct mapping algorithm using some logical operation. This cipher text generation provides a good strength to the encryption algorithm, with the increasing importance of video security more enhanced better methods are required to improve security in a broad way. As such it is quite essential to improve our algorithms performance in future. Here a new approach for data security using block cipher symmetric key cryptography was proposed. This new approach uses the concept of encryption number and random number from paper to enhance the complexity of key. This results increases efforts for brute force attacks. The proposed approach also uses the logical shift and X-or operations to reduce the CPU utilization and processing time of algorithm. The proposed system successfully encrypt and decrypt the files in Text, Pdf, xml, image, mp3 format.conclusionrp[1] ¹Md. Nazrul Islam, ¹Md. Monir Hossain Mia, 2Muhammad F. I. Chowdhury, 3M.A. Matin “Effect of Security Increment to Symmetric Data Encryption through AES Methodology” Ninth ACIS International Conference on Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed Computing
[2] Dripto Chatterjee, Joyshree Nath, Suvadeep Dasgupta, Asoke Nath “A new Symmetric Key Cryptography Algorithm using extended MSA method: DJSA Symmetric Key algorithm” 2011 International Conference on communication Systems and Network Technologies.
[3] Diaa Salama Abdul Minaam1, Hatem M. Abdual-Kader2, and Mohiy Mohamed Hadhoud2 “Evaluating the Effects of Symmetric Cryptography Algorithms on power consumption for Different Data types” International Journal of Network Security, Vol.11, No.2, PP.78-87, Sept. 2010
[4] 1.Vishwa gupta,2. Gajendra Singh ,3.Ravindra Gupta “Advance cryptography algorithm for improving data security” Volume 2,Issue 1, January 2012 ISSN:2277 128X International Journal of Advance Research in Computer Science and Software Engineering.
[5] Krishna Kumar Pandey Vikas Rangari Sitesh KumarSinha “An Enhanced Symmetric Key cryptography Algorithm to Improve Data Security” International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887) Volume 74– No. 20, July 2013referencesrp