5|It work perfectly as expected... Connect with all my apple device( iPad,iPhone and ipod)
5|This laptop is purr-fect for my daughter who is attending college to become a veterinarian.
5|Great product would def recommend you purchase this item
4|Definitely different switching from a PC to a MAC but I love it
5|Really Love my macbook pro. I bought it for personal and school use. Recommend this product to those who really love using apple products. Its great to use for personal use, such as music and photos. Really glad i bought this when i did because i got it at such a great price. There so much to explore on this great device. I recommend this to anyone who loves apple products, this is a must have.
5|My son can't wait to take this computer to college
5|Great laptop for any age. I bought this one because my other was stolen.
5|I love my new MacBook PRO, its fast and perfect for what I use it for . I have always had PC's and after having to buy one after another, and hearing so many wonderful things about the MacBook, I decided to buy one. I am very happy I did.
5|I bought this item for my mother and she had no problems getting it set up on her own. It took some getting used to after switching over from a PC, but the MacBook is really easy to use and a great buy.
4|Love my mac book pro. It is so easy to use. Makes my day to day job so much easier
4|Works perfectly well, heats up at times when watching full screen movies.
5|Bought this to replace the Mac my daughter has had for over 6 years. It is lighter than her old one. Macbook laptops are pretty solid systems overall.
5|great for all levels of mac users including beginners. love the photo editing feature.
4|I bought this laptop to work with my music. So far it runs great, generates little heat and has a very good battery. It really handles my projects well. Only complaint is once again Apple likes to charge way too much money for a product than needs everything to be of the same company to work without too many crashes. Still a good laptop though.
5|Use my mac book everyday. Helps with work, school and everything else needed! Has lots of storage and battery life goes a long way.
5|You can add up to 16 gigs and 2 terabyte hard . Faster than the newer MacBooks and much more expandable. Has a dvd-r and lots of ports.
4|Unknown for myself, but my college student appears to like the product.
4|For a really old laptop it really fast and durable
5|At 1st I just wanted a cheap laptop but then I went all out ant got the best thing they had!! Well at least to me it was one of thr best
4|This is a laptop that I would put more ram into right away.
5|Really like it! I like Apple products. So, happy to have this.
5|After years of being a PC user, I decided to give Apple a try. The casual computer user that I am means I researched extensively for months and watched the price drop through Back to School sales until New Year's Eve and still I debated on the purchase of a MacBook. I was told to wait because of the price and the memory is not as high as a PC to house iTunes library and movies but I finally took the plunge and am extremely satisfied with the purchase. The last time I bought a laptop was in 2007 and it was a Dell, almost wieghing as much as a baby, so I felt I deserved to have a great product, (I also used the student discount of $50). If you have an iPhone or other Apple devices the features are great because everything is transferable and seamless and a big plus for me is the 500gb of memory, which has been plenty for what I need (15 movies, about 3,000 songs, 426 photos and 30 camera phone videos so far!). I chose the Pro because it is my main form of technology for my house and I enjoy the CD/DVD feature, as well as the USB and Ethernet ports. I would have gone with the Air but I felt that I needed the Ethernet port just on the off chance my internet provider connection wavered, as it has in the past. I ordered online and was surprised that it delivered quickly with UPS, approximately 3 days after I placed the order.
5|I decided it was time to upgrade my Windows computer for school. I opted for the disk drive version with a lot more memory over the retina model. I love the computer and highly recommend it. A+ quality and performance as expected by Apple.
5|My first Apple labtop! I definitely have no complaints!
5|Great laptop for the price apple makes great products and this laptop gets the job done.
4|Same computer you get at the Apple Store. I love MacBooks so it's all good.
4|I've always owned a PC, so when finally converting over to a Macbook, I think i made a pretty good choice. I love my model specifically because it still has the cd drive installed and I dont have to purchase it seperatly, Still learning how to use the programs, but overall it is a great computer.
5|Not super easy to use at first for someone used to a PC, but once you figure it out it becomes very user friendly.
5|This is exactly what's I was looking for. I'm glad I got the deal also.
5|Came just as advertised works great I bought two the price was great as well
4|The camera was not working properly brand new outside of the box! My 12 year old daughter's Christmas gift was ruined, at least that's what she said! We had to look up how to fix the problem on YouTube! Other than the minor set back she LOVES her MacBook Pro 13.1, at least that's how she says it...lol
5|It takes awhile to get used to operation if you are used to microsoft products but after a few uses it is easy and user friendly.
4|I'm used to PC so I still have some learning to do
5|perfect for my high school students needs. fast enough and already has the programs required to get her school work done.
5|excellent laptop, everything I needed , I can work on it without any problem , I recommend
4|Has everything I wanted is a good price for product
5|This MacBook is an excellent product. It has so many features that exceeded my expectations, even though there are newer models you can purchase.
5|Thank You Apple for living up to past laptop products
5|I purchased this macbook pro for my girlfriend who has always used Windows PC's. She absolutely loves the macbook and is adjusting to the apple environment better than I expected. She is extremely happy and would highly recommend even though price is a bit steep for her blood and that is why I gave it to her as a christmas gift.
5|This is my first MacBook &amp;amp; I love it! It is super simple to navigate!
5|I absolutely love my MacBook! Been an apple fan for some time now and would recommend it to others!
5|Perfect for traveling great picture and video quality
4|It's a laptop what more can I say it's not a toy for fun
4|Having used a variety of devices over the years, it took me awhile to take the leap to a very good MAC. It has all sorts of capacity. I am still in the process of becoming familiar with it. Am generally very pleased. Since I use a mini IPad and Smart phone a lot, the MAC book provides a good balance that can be coordinated with the other devices. This seems to be meeting my needs.
5|I have tried this model before using a friends laptop. I decided it would be the best product for my money I am very happy with my purchase
5|This was my third one purchased and everyone is very happy with them
4|I bought this for my daughter to go back to school.
5|This computer is easy to use and I think it is great for anyone wanting to purchase a new computer. I highly recommend it.
5|First time Mac Buyer and I'm in love. Very fast and user friendly.
5|My husbands Christmas gift &amp;amp; he loves it. It was a great price also
5|Very happy with how fast the computer works and easy to setup the laptop. The computer has had no glitches as of yet
5|I am new to Mac and it's taken some adjustments but not as much as I thought.
5|I have had multiple Mac laptops for over 8 years and I would never go back to a PC. Mac are virus free and very easy to use.
4|I love Apple product and wanted one for my wife so she would stop using mine.
5|It does everything I need it to do, for my work...
4|A friend of mine who knows about Apple computers had highly recommended this particular model to me. I find it to be a little slow. Other than that, it serves my purpose.
4|Was a gift for my daughter who is 11 she is very pleased with it so far
2|This computer is slow compared to the recents apple lineup and overpriced if compared to microsoft based laptops
4|The product is a good value. Service was satisfactory and it was on sale.
5|MacBook is an excellent product. Easy to use!!!!!!
5|Eventhough this model was a 2012 Apple product, for the money it could not be beat. It almost has all the same features as the current model at half the price. Thanks
5|This is a great computer and easy to use. My son really likes it.
5|He is so happy with the laptop. Was able to subscribe to all of Adobe and have plenty of memory and compatiblity. Store where he picked up computer was excellent in the handling and service. Computer was ordered on line and picked up in another state.
4|I love the look and feel of this laptop. Only gripe is that it came with 4GB of memory and no ability to upgrade that to 8GB at the time of purchase. I was right in fearing that might not be enough memory for two users and now have to upgrade the unit myself. No big deal but a hassle, nevertheless .
5|You can't beat a Mac! Overall a great computer for just about anything.
5|I chose this computer as my Christmas gift this year because I do photography. I like that it has the CD player internally. This makes it easier for me to have everything I need without adding any external devices. I also like the photo card reader that is on this computer. I don't have to attach a photo card reader device. It is absolutely the greatest. The size is also very comfortable to use. I would recommend this computer to anyone looking for the computer that has everything. I absolutely love it!
5|My daughter loves using her new lap top that she got as a Christmas present.
4|Purchased new MacBook (old one is now 6 years old). Hoping for increased speed and battery power. Notice no difference in machines. El Capitan is the problem. I would NOT "upgrade" to this OS. All my issues started on old machine with EC and began on new machine when I time machined to new MacBook
5|I have been a PC girl all my life. I even had a Windows phone at one point. I researched, polled and googled the heck out of Mac before taking the plunge because I was hesitant to purchase a Mac but i haven't regretted it yet! One of the many reasons i chose Mac is because of the great feedback i received but, also, because once you purchase a PC and all the programs (Microsoft Office, etc.) it's the same price as buying a Mac. Plus, even though the Mac can be susceptible to viruses it's not nearly as rampant as on PC. The quality is distinctly better, and it shows. The transition to understand the way Mac works has been smooth and pleasant. I would definitely recommend you try it. YOLO!
5|Bought it for school and has been working greatly.
5|We converted my mom to an iPhone last year, so buying an iMac to replace her aging Windows machine made sense. It's been a pretty easy transition for this 84-year-old grandma. She's not afraid to learn new things and loves her new computer.
5|Everything my daughter needed for her classes at college.
5|Have loved using the laptop since day one and have kept enjoying it everyday since. I would highly recommend everyone to switch to apple because of how much easier things work and flow on the screen.
5|love this product so much better than I expected fabulous
4|Wanted a laptop with a DVD player but was worried about other performance as some said that the units were older models. Everything works fine and we have been using it to store photos / videos to clear up iCloud space.
5|Excellent price .Also very comparable too other high end computers.
5|Great computer. It's a perfect computer for someone in college.
5|This is the standard all Laptop Computers should meet.
5|Easy to use great product love the speed and light weight
5|I would definitely recommend this computer to anyone looking. Once you go Apple, you'll never go back!
5|I am very happy overall.. I will recommend to my friends
5|Great laptop, especially for the price! Nice sized screen, accomplishes everything that we need for it to do!
4|Love it so far, never had an issue with Apple products
5|Watching the tutorial helped tremendously! Made browsing much easier
5|This computer has many good aspects and demonstrates the typical quality of a macbook, but this computer is a little outdated.
5|My daughter has wanted this computer since her friend had got it a few years ago, then her sister got one last year through school. I recommend this for a college student. It's an Apple product and I have heard all good things about their computers.
4|This product is perfect for my teenage son to do his school assignments.
5|For Christmas holiday, I purchased a MacBook Pro 13" laptop for my husband. He had been talking about switching from a PC to a Mac for some time, but never made the move himself. For Christmas I gave him the MacBook. Wow, it has made a tremendous change in his enjoyment of laptops. The MacBook is sleek, elegant, and fast. He had no trouble adapting to the MacBook and now wants a desktop Mac as well. It works flawlessly with his iPhone and iPad. Now I'm read to purchase one for myself.
5|MacBook Pro works better than expected didn't realize I can more on this laptop then previous laptops I've had.
5|Best purchase of my life. Everything runs so smooth, love the fluidity from the Mac to my iPhone
5|My daughter uses this computer daily for school. Love the MacBook Pro.
5|I bought this mac book for my little cousin &amp;amp; she loovveeesssss it!!!!
5|I just use it for paying bills and working with ableton Live and a mixing controller. Definitely, worth the price I paid and their financing options helped a lot
5|There isn't probably isn't much more that I can report about Apple products, that we don't know already. No viruses, user friendliness, Apple care, and great customer service/support!
4|My daughter absolutely loves her Mac. She says its lightweight.
4|I ordered this over the internet but picked it up in the store and that was SO easy!!! I have not had a lot of time to play around with my new macbook but i am excited to see what it can do!
5|I bought this out of frustration with Microsoft than anything else. The windows 10 disaster, and their new male-ware style tactics to try to trick you into using their products made me look for an alternative. So far, so good. Initial setup was a breeze, and this thing is fast even with the 5400 rpm drive and only 4GB of memory. Time will tell if it will do everything I want, but so far I'm very impressed.
5|This MacBook Pro is a classic. It is durable, easy to travel with, and has great battery life. I've used this almost daily for 4 years before upgrading to the retina MacBook and it still works like new.
5|This Laptop is perfect for traveling and very simple to comprehend. I would also like to recommend this Laptop to first time buyers. It's been a thrill ride with this bad boy, get yourself one immidiately after reading my post. You won't regret the best decision you've made in you're life. ;)
5|Computer is good. I like make dvds. I like make cds. Computer can do it. Good computer.
5|bought the 2012 model so I can upgrade the ram and use a ssd from my older MacBook. Works great.
5|daughter loves it will be using into college it was a great investment..
5|I've not bought one before so this is new to me. This particular MacBook was highly recommended to me by several family members. I bought it during one of those flash sales so the price was incredible. Just learning to use it &amp;amp; I'm loving it! Thanks.
5|I have had a windows based computer for a very long time. I loved Windows 7 but when my hard drive went out on my computer I bought a new hard drive and got another 7 because I had tried an 8 and HATED IT. WINDOWS KEPT DISAPPEARING IF THE CURSER MOVED A LITTLE TOO FAR ONE WAY OR ANOTHER. I AM OLDER SO MAYBE IT WAS JUST A MATTER OF "OLD DOG NEW TRICK" but I didn't meet too many people who liked it including some younger ones! When I finally had to get a new computer I decided to go mac. I had already been introduced to the i phone and an iPad mini so it was a very easy transition even for this old dog! All my photos "synced" and it was very easy to use. LOVE IT! Big investment but no regrets!
5|I bought one each for my son and daughter because it was such a great deal on a great product. They are very happy with them and seem to be getting a lot of use.
5|I love my new MacBook, it hardware along with new OS make one of the best
5|I bought the computer for my family, worked so good,in decided to buy one for my mobile dj set up, really reliable, hasn't crashed, run multiple programs , almost bullet proof
5|This is my first Apple product ,I'm amazed how easy it is to learn and get used to the Mac operating system ,loaded with features would recommend to anyone.
5|I got this for my daughter as a birthday/Christmas gift. She will be going to college next year and this everything she wanted. Even though the guy in line behind me recommended I get a Windows laptop, went with this and she loves all it can do and how fast it is.
5|As the forgotten child in the Macbook Pro line-up, this model has not been updated by Apple since 2012, as they are moving on to the Retina models that have no user upgrade capability. However, the i5 processor in this laptop is still modern enough and fast enough to run just about any task you will use in a mobile/desk situation. Mine came with OSX El Capitan loaded (the latest version) as the standard OS, but you can use an earlier version OS if you wish (I ran a Mavericks version from an external boot drive without issue). I chose this model to replace a 2009 Macbook Pro which was wearing out after years of daily use, and it is almost identical in appearance and function, but that is a good thing! It's good in that it is the last model of Macbook for which you can upgrade the memory and hard drive, and this machine benefits greatly with a memory expansion, and becomes much quicker if you add a SSD (Solid State Drive) to replace the pokey 5400 rpm standard 500 GB hard drive. I noticed a BIG increase in speed and responsiveness when I upped the memory to 16 GB, however, that may be overkill, as 8 GB is definitely sufficient to support a lot of multitasking, and is not that expensive or difficult to add by yourself. Do an internet search for a video demo on how easy this is to do. The standard 4 GB memory is just adequate for single tasking, and if you open a lot of web pages or try to run multiple applications simultaneously, the system slows down as it needs to swap data to and from the hard drive as a memory cache, and the hard drive is slow. The results are "beach balls" as you wait for the swap to finish. With the memory addition and the SSD, everything just zips along nicely! There is something about the Macbook Pro that makes using it both easy, reliable, durable and pleasant, The display quality is superb either face-on, or off to an angle, so you really don't need the Retina display to do what you need done (in my opinion), which is another reason I chose to replace the 2009 model with this almost the same model. Plus, it has a DVD drive to either conveniently read/write data, or watch a movie on the go if you want without having to carry a separate plug in device. It has very fast internet connection speeds. Using built-in Disk Migration, all programs and settings were easily transferred from my 2009 Macbook Pro to the new computer without issue, so I had everything I used or saved before available from the start. I am very happy with this purchase, and can enthusiastically recommend this computer for purchase consideration. I really wish Apple would abandon their "no upgrades by the user allowed" designs that seem to be engineered into every new product coming out now, as Apple installed upgrade prices are wildly expensive compared to market value priced similar items. But, I guess that also explains why they are doing it, too!
5|This laptop is very nice like I download my video.
4|It's been a good use for the past couple of weeks.
4|Replacing a similar laptop. Would like larger HD, but wanted a CD player which this model includes, so chose it over the newer SSD. Works great, although it is a 13" screen, the view is bright and clear.
5|My daughter needed a new computer that had more memory and could go faster! She has loved her previous MacBook. She had it for 5 years with no problems. She needed an updated one! My husband inherited the old one and it's still going strong!
5|Very durable. Dropped in case and no problem still works. Easy to use and will never go back to PC.
5|Salesperson was professional and product is easy to use.
4|My first MacBook Pro.... works well but with issues. Needs a better camera, quick loading and log in.
5|If you're in the market for a new laptop and you want something that will last a long time and has good usability, you should definitely consider a Macbook Pro. I used to hate on Macs because of the compatibility problems between Macs and Windows back in the day, but those problems are getting much fewer. Basically with the new Mac Office 2016 and other programs out there, the switch from Windows to Mac is pretty easy. The only downside of Macs is the cost. I recommend getting this Macbook Pro without the Retina Display and then getting a solid-state drive and more memory (for this one it's up to 8GB) separately to upgrade after you get it. I highly recommend you have someone who is familiar with Mac do the upgrades, but there are instructions online on how to do that too. With the help of a friend, I upgraded this Macbook Pro from 500GB harddisk and 4GB memory to 250GB solid-state and 8GB memory, and in the long-run it was cheaper than if I had bought a Macbook Pro with the higher specs to begin with. With it upgraded, my Mac runs super fast and should last a long time.
5|Great for college, easy set up, easy to use, light
4|Got the MacBook Pro for my grand-daughter who is going into the Marines for when she goes to her training classes. I liked the fact that it is less likely to acquire viruses and it was a good deal
5|This product is very comfortable and easy to handle and specially useful for students.
5|My daughter uses the computer for her nursing class
5|wonderful for a Chinese made product we love the mac book
5|Excellent computer. Fast processing and stylish design. Very good deal since the price cut with the newer models out.
5|Very user friendly, great buy I love my macbook pro !!
5|My Mac Pro is just what I needed . It's excellent i love it!
5|Love how easy this item is to work. great for everyday activities
5|My final decision to buy this Macbook came from many online reviews.Totally satisfied. Worth the money. Great for college students. Very reliable performance. Anything else that I am missing ?
5|I had always wanted to own a Macbook Pro. Glad I got a great bargain too
5|This computer just blown out my expectation. Initally i bought Mac book pro older version and meeting not meeting my needs and expectation and i decided to upgrade to this one and i am very much satisfied with my new Mac book. It was so easy to set up, just took 5 mins. Perfect choice for power users.
5|Just changed from a PC laptop to this Apple Mac Pro. Trying to get use to the differences but so far I like it and wished I would have made switch years ago.
4|We got this computer to help integrate all of our Apple products together since we have mutiple people using multiple Apple devices in our home.
5|A bit of a learning curve to move from Windows PCs, but so much better in every way,
5|This is the Firth Mac book I had , it better my Window laptop but I have to update my programs to Mac products
5|Never had an Apple product and so I got the iPhone after I got the iPhone I fell in love with it because I'm so used to the galaxy products. After playing with the iPhone for a couple of months I wanted to try a MacBook compared to a regular Microsoft computer and I absolutely love it it was the best decision I've ever made as Microsoft computer and I absolutely love it it was the best decision I've ever made as as far as her computer if you're having a hard time deciding on what to get! THIS IS THE COMPUTER TO GET!
4|Takes time to get used to if you never had apple computer before but it is great after the adjustment however expensive
5|This is my first mac and so far I'm very pleased with my purchase.
5|Purchased for my daughter who is going off to college. She absolutely loves this computer.
5|Could not be happier with my first Mac. Works great and has been easy to learn iOS even for this long time PC user.
3|Never used a Mac before so it is taking some getting used to. Commands are different then Windows as well as closing windows etc.
5|Love the easy start up and technology. It is the best laptop I have purchased.
5|Love my mac book pro! It's amazing definitely worth the purchase
5|I got office pro with my Macbook and i love it so much! This computer is fast, easy interface, and really sleek!
5|nice product from Apple. I also have a nice IPHONE 6 which is great !
5|Great machine at a good price. Conveniently made my purchase on line and picked the laptop up. Small and light which was important because I carry it every day.
5|Best price around when I purchased. It's a Mac. It's good.
5|I love it! It's very easy to use. I love how fast it is.
5|I have been a big fan of Macs for years. They are a true work horse and will last for years.
5|My daughter needed a new computer for college and the MacBook Pro was the perfect size and does everything she needs it to do.
5|My wife Enjoyed the computer and is using it regularly.
5|Excellent functionality, capability, and size. Very happy!
5|I bought this mac after being fed up with my acer windows with windows 10. It has everything that a student needs. You can run parallel Windows if you want to run windows softwares in Mac.
5|Got this for my Daughter who is a sophomore in HS, this our third apple and I know there will be no issues. Once you learn how to use it, it's the best. More customer support would be great. Especially for those over 40, It's difficult to get the help you need on the phone and the Apple Store is too crazy.
5|This is this first Mac computer I've ever bought. So far enjoying it and learning it. It has a lot of options.
4|Not the high end computer, but it's a good computer to start my 10th grader with.
5|Fast, light weight, and compact. Picture/screen is crisp and clear. It's everything I hoped to have, and then some. Best computer ever!
5|Amazing product! Great display!! I would recommend this product.
5|great macbook pro already have one decided to buy my sister one for her high school.
5|look for a few years ..not sure what to buy ..decided to buy a Mac ..glad i did love it
5|Will not go back to other brands of laptop computers
5|I Love my MacBook! The best laptop you could ever buy, I had used others but I always wanted to have an Apple Laptop, easy to use, I would recommend it to anyone.
4|I love my new laptop. However, battery drains very quick.
5|I've used Macs since '89. This is the nicest Mac I've owned. It does everything I want and does it well. I'd recommend it to anyone.
5|Purchased the MacBook for business and home and could not be happier! Does everything I need and is fast and efficient.
5|I bought the Mac book Pro laptop for my 13 year old daughter for a Christmas present. She loves is and is really happy with how fast it is.
5|After losing my 2006 Mac Pro to a horrible death, I was forced to slog through life, OK, a few months, with a piece of cr@p Acer that my daughter had in middle school. But Hallelujah my husband finally got tired of me cussing out the Acer and bought my new Mac. Well, that and the fact he needed a computer to do the family taxes. But who cares the true reason, love or taxes, I have my new Mac and Life is gooooood!!!
5|Daughter is a college art major and uses it for everything!
5|I bought this computer for my daughter and she loves it.
5|I Enjoy all apple products and have never been disappointed.
5|worked good I like it it was easy to use made for a nice day
4|Got this computer because my sister has it and I love it!
5|Got this mac for my girlfriend for school and she loves it. Uses it everyday and the 3 months of internet security it came works wonder
5|This is the best laptop I've ever had!! It's very easy to set up and user friendly!! This is great for a college student!
5|I bought this computer for grad school and it has been amazing. It is a little slow to startup but I love everything else about it! I thought about getting a macbook air but the fact that I can add memory to this model was the seller for me.
5|Quite surprised considering the price but its perfect and really glad i went with this mac
5|My daughter loved her Christmas present. Great price!
4|all things that i bought very good i happy and looking foward
5|I love love this laptop, its lightweight and fast, everything is great ! I recommend it to anyone looking for a new laptop
5|Products are the best for all needs, i really recomend these items.
5|Easy to operate. I love how it syncs with all of my devices!
4|i5 but the speed looks i3 until it's open . Still great thu
5|really fast going from hard drive to flash drive makes a huge difference in the overall speed loading everything
5|I love all things Apple and so do my kids. I bought this for my son for school and he absolutely loves it.
5|I bought the Apple-MacBook Pro - Intel i5 13.3 inch Display - 4GB Memory - 500 GB Hard Drive - Silver. It is the perfect size for a laptop-not big/not to small. The set up was extremely easy and it automatically connected to my other Apple devices (sync). I bought it over the Black Friday weekend so the price was right! I am super satisfied!
4|alot is different then my hp comptr.. cant really say if its better yet
4|This is a great laptop for college no need to get the SDS hard drive, this is good enough, more space 500gb
5|I was tired of listening to her complain about her pc. Got this and she hasn't griped about it at all.
5|easy to use and get started. I bought the computer for my wife and she likes it. It is about the right size for a tablet and fits into our lives real well. We can do anything we want and it works real well. Seems like it has good battery life also.
5|Great computer. The battery last a ling time on a full charge.
4|Arrived on time. Good instructions to start. Information for assistance.
5|Very fast and easy to set up. Was able to download iTunes and all files with a few minutes.
4|My first mac.....love it....easy to use and fun to play with
5|Great product I only buy apple products every other device I have tried doesn't compare apple products my be a little more expensive than most but definitely worth the money
4|Think it will meet expectations. My wife is the main user and really likes it.
5|Had 2 pc laptops, but after windows 10, forget Microsoft based machines!
5|Our son's laptop for transition from Highschool to college....best Christmas surprise ever! Even beat the snowboard of yesteryear and PlayStation 3 :)
5|Get computer for the kids to use for school work and at home
5|The computer seemed to do everything that I needed it to.
5|Got a great laptop for a great price thanks to a flash sale.
4|My daughter loves it because it is slim and slick to use !
4|I bought this for my son as a Christmas gift. He has a iPhone,iPad but had been without a laptop since college when he last had a MacBook Pro. So far it has performed perfectly and now has a place to store his music collection.
5|Beautiful picture. Easy to set up and navigate. Able to be connected to multiple devices easily.
5|This is my first Apple product so I'm basically getting to know the functions at this point. So far, I love the clarity of the screen and beautiful keyboard functions. Looking forward to learning more.
5|I was away from Mac for a few months after my 2006 Mac Pro died. Yes, it lasted 9 years. I had to use my daughter's old PC and was purely despondent the entire time! But now, heaven has returned and all is right with the world!
5|This is the first ever Mac I owned. I always had windows before.I was a little worried that I would be lost but I have to say I am glad I made this purchase.. Easy to understand..
5|This was my a first time buying a Mac and I love it! Very easy to use and now it matches up with my other apple products. Very worth it
5|Very happy with my choice of 2012 model MacBook Pro. I chose it because it is the last model that contains a SuperDrive and a great variety of I/O ports. Apple has gone overboard with their latest design emphasis on thin, sleek, light-weight MacBooks and their dependency on iCloud. It's worth a little extra bulk to have the drive and gazintas and gazoutas! And the clearance price helped too.
4|You expect a certain quality when you spend the money for a MacBook. It has exceeded my expectations.
4|New to apple computers so there has been a learning curve but so far it has been easy
5|Purchased during the black friday sale after using Windows 8 and 10 I knew the Windows platform no longer worked for me, it was laid out in a unclean and messy way and unless you have a touch screen you can not really use all of the features. Coming from Windows to Mac has been an easy adjustment and I love having this computer. It's a fast upbeat, little to no lag on any of the programs I use. I see no difference in having a non Retina screen, I needed the cd drive for work since I'm a traveling nurse. I can understand if one worked with photos or any design would want the Retina but for me the most I look at are X-rays or CT scans and those come on discs and I need the drive more than a pretty screen. I can definitely say I do not see this older model being any worse than the current models and I think they should keep it up for those few of us who need the CD drive on the go instead of having to use an external drive. I would recommend purchasing again and again.
5|It's a tad bit heavy since its not an air laptop but it's resolution is good, the screen and keyboard is perfect and it comes to pages, keynote, and other programs that replace Microsoft word, which is good if you are a student you are not forced to purchase those. However if like me you won't use the CD entry just get the air cause it really is heavy specially if you go to school and have to carry it along with other books, but for the price it's an excellent product.
5|I love Apple computers and I have finally learned my lesson. You get what you pay for! I'm done with Window based products. I bought this for my wife and she uses it for everything! This one has dvd player which makes it a little heavier, but my wife doesn't mind. One last thought about Macs is I have an 8 yr old iMac and my daughter has a 7 yr old macbook and both are faster at surfing the net than my year old Toshiba laptop!
5|I found the exact make and model of the MacBook pro that I needed. It is an older model, but the newer models don't have disk drives for some reason. It was amazing that I now have a new computer that is compatible with my old hard drive. Thanks for having this in stock. I am very greatful, and the transaction went smoothly.
4|This computer does everything I need while giving me the protection I desired from a Mac. I love that I can link my iPad, iPod, iPhone, and now Macbook all together. The only downside is I think that users are not given enough free space on the Cloud but that is just an apple complaint. The computer itself is light, sleek, and handy.
5|Best laptop I've ever used. Good bye Windows!! Smooth machine and very efficient.
5|My daughter will soon be attending college and this is just what she was looking for. She loves it. Very user friendly and the monitor is the perfect size, not too small and not too big.
5|Enjoy the lightness of this computer and how easy it is to use.
5|awesome laptop. nice and thin -you cant beat apple when it comes to laptops or phones
5|It is a great device as its brand name. I'd recommend to friends.
5|The perfect gift for a novice user. We got another one for my son.
5|I love my Mac Book Pro. I used one my entire teaching career to managing my grade book, creating documents, cut-and-paste layouts, researching lesson plans, all of it. After trying others, I found the Mac really suited my retirement lifestyle, just as it had suited me so well during my professional teaching career.
5|Bought this for myself for Christmas and I've been pretty happy so far. No issues. It is my first Mac computer so I'm still getting used to it but so far it's great.
5|This was a gift for my grandson who games a lot and it was everything he needed - great laptop!
5|Great laptop so far. This is my first mac and I'm so happy with it!
5|Great laptop for my high school girl, recommended.
5|Purchased as gift for wife. Lots of storage VS new Flash drive versions. This unit does NOT have retina enhancement Overall value outstanding
5|It has it all and does everything well!! We have an "Air" as well but needed the integrated CD drive.
5|Everything I expected and more. I love apple and my mac is awesome!
5|A great computer for my teen. Will last for years. Apple products are outstanding values.
5|This was something I had wanted for a long time,. I asked for it for my high school graduation and it has been great for a college student. It is light weight and small enough to carry in a backpack or in a tote bag. It comes installed with everything I have needed for classes so far.
5|My elementary and middle school kids use MacBook Pros at school. Perfect lap top for homework.
5|Working great for home use with homework and streaming netflixs!
5|Bought this computer for school over 2 months ago and am extremely pleased with my purchase.
5|I purchased for my girls for Christmas to use for college and they really love it!
5|This MacBook was purchased for my daughter, who is a high school senior. We wanted a computer that could grow with her and be something she could ultimately use in college. It is powerful, compact and the build quality, like most things Apple, is impressive. It has adequate storage, although it could use a bit more RAM. Fortunately, this particular system is easy to upgrade, unlike the MacBook Air, which we considered as well. I highly recommend this system.
5|I recommend very good computer very easy to use !!
5|I like how this computer has a disk drive. Now the newer computers are omitting that feature. I'm happy with its overall performance
5|Great laptop. I give it 5 stars, however if you are a college student/traveler i would suggest getting either the newer model with a retina display or the latest air due to the fact that this isn't the lightest laptop out there and the retina display is lighter and thinner, as well as the macbook air. If you don't mind carrying around a bit of weight with you, then this laptop is great and you won't regret your purchase.
5|I got this MacBook during Black Friday. The value was amazing and the product is as well. I went with this model over the MacBook Air or newer MacBook Pro because of the hard drive. I needed the extra space and this has that and also a disc drive (haven't used it yet but good to have). It has the capability to be upgraded to the most current version of OSX and still flys when it comes to speed.
4|It's a great laptop for the people who don't want to go away from Apple
5|This computer was purchased for college use. The computer is lighter than the one that it is replacing and much faster. Screen resolution is ideal, speed is faster than what was actually needed, hopefully it will make it through 4 years of college. I am considering purchasing one for another family member, very impressive laptop.
4|MacBook Pro provides easy set up and use for kids and adults. Lots of programs for school projects, as well as functionality for work and keeping in touch with family.
5|I am so far very happy with this purchase even though it's not the latest macbook out there.
4|only one to own if you can afford the extra money,80 percent less likely to get viruses, awesome media software,the best . it's a 9 of 10 rating. only reason I no perfect is because of price should be 400.00 less. a little over priced .
5|This laptop is stable and easy to use. Definitely worth spending the extra money over the Air.
5|Got it for my daughter as a pre University gift. She LOVES it!!
5|I love it. It's easy to navigate and sleek. Great buy!!
5|Having been a Mac desktop user in the past, this is my first MacBook Pro laptop. I am very satisfied with the speed, functionality and ease of use. I realize there are newer versions of the MacBook available ~ however I selected this one because it has a built in CD drive. Downloads amazingly take only a nanosecond! I highly recommend this product.
5|I love this product I had the first one that came out and now I got myself this one.
5|Bought an Apple MacBook Pro recently and glad I did. It's easy to use, more durable than the thinner windows laptops, and no glitches from unnecessary programs.
3|This is my first mac and I do not like the caps lock button because I have to press several times to do its function. Sometimes it works well and others do not
5|Very easy to setup, and we were able to use immediately.
5|This is a great laptop. It was hard for me to switch to an Apple product and I have no complaints making the switch. This laptop is perfect for students and for personal home use. Highly recommend this Apple product if you have a student who needs something portable and light to get around school.
5|Easy to set up and use right out of the box. No additional software of accessories required.
5|I had Mac air now the pro. Both are great laptops.
4|This computer is a great item for school work and every day activities
5|The laptop is great for homework assignments and very easy to get use to the set up. Love it!
5|The Mac was everything that was expected. It runs fast and has many different capabilities
5|this a great product, does all the things I needed
3|This was a gift but because I'm a PC guy was not as apt at Mac tech so I'm not impressed for my cost to product ratio on this laptop, I always thought apple don't put the latest tech in there lap top worse if you bought a older model. Guess it was obsolete when it came out as most of there product.
4|laptop is perfect and working good but price was little expensive
5|I love my new MacBook. I originally bought an older model and decided to get the newest one. Customer service allowed me to return the older version with no problems.
5|Replacement laptop for my daughter who is college freshman. She has been using an apple laptop since middle school and hasn't had any problems with them in over seven years.
5|We bought this laptop for our daughter who will be leaving for college this year. Can't go wrong with an Apple Computer. I have 3 kids all using Apple products and have never had any issues.
5|This is my first MacBook and I been pleased with it. I will continue to buy MacBooks going forward.
5|Excellent product. Everything you expect from Apple.
5|Fast and easy to use .Like that it can be upgraded .
5|I needed a new MacBook Pro to replace my old one. Great MacBook for the price. It's the last model of its generation but does the same things as the newer generation MacBook Pro.
5|Pricier than PCs, but well worth the extra $$. I would definitely recommend this!
5|Using with go pro, works perfect. Love Apple!! Don't buy anything else!
5|My grandchild loves this Mac, and finds it very easy to navigate
5|The Mac Book Pro is a durable, fast, easy to use machine!
5|Windows 8 was the last straw. Should have bought a Mac a long time ago. Very fast and the apps work flawlessly.
4|every thing is good I like this MacBook that is my first macbook
5|Great buy. I love the Macbook. Def buy again! Easy to use!
4|This laptop was definitely a great buy at a great price!
5|I've been researching laptops for a long time. I've had many PC's over the years and was debating if spending the extra money for a Mac would be worth it. I'm so happy with my decision. You can immediately feel and see the difference as soon as you open it. It's built incredibly and runs like a dream. Anyone who may be on the fence.... Do it! You won't be disappointed.
5|Great Black Friday deal. Couldn't be happier. Love my MacBook Pro.
5|I'm very happy with this purchase. I bought the MacBook Pro for my husband as a law school graduation gift and it was a great choice.
5|I love my MacBook Pro. I was unsure about buying it at first but I'm glad I made the purchase. Totally worth every cent!
5|Very lightweight, pretty affordable, works perfect for all of my essential needs and wants.
5|I love Apple products. I enjoy the ease of use that they supply.
4|It's nice but slow wish I was told about the new replica version thought.....
5|I got the Mackbook Pro for my daughter, she absolutely loves it. Easy to operate and get it up and running.
4|I love my new mac! Great investment. Highly recommend it.
5|This is a great laptop, very sturdy! I have no problem with it.
4|Great computer; however, install virus protection before using!
4|Great laptop , I like all features and also light weight
5|Have had no problems with this macbook, and my favorite part is that it has a CD drive...nice "old school" feature
5|I like having the DVD drive so I can let my daughter watch her DVD's. I also like having the 500GB hard drive, so I do not need cloud storage. A little old school, but a great laptop!
5|Bought this as a gift for hubby. He is super happy with the product.
5|This computer has been perfect for school, allows me to get my work done quickly
4|This is my second MacBook Pro. I only wish they could make it a little lighter
5|I love it ! Very user friendly. Easy and fast navigation on the Internet. It has a long battery life. Best laptop I have ever owned.
5|Awesome buy! Would recommend this to a friend, great for school assignments.
5|It is a great laptop. I just wanted to replace my MacBook and the MacBook Pro was perfect.
3|I purchased for a friend who is an older man. He had a mac previously i tried to talk him into a PC machine but he wanted to go with apple. I thought this was the best deal on black friday. It took me a good amount of time to get this thing where he was able to use it (setting up screens enlarging icons etc etc. I don't understand how to close apple windows every time I visit him he has like 400 windows open and cant find anything. The operating system is not intuitve to me and the screen is subpar I would demand retina display if I was buying for myself. One plus is the apple support if anything goes wrong they somewhat help support their products - at least there is a store you can go to rather than talk to someone in a 3rd world country. Also malware, virus, etc.. seem to be less of a threat on apple especially for less tech savvy individuals, at least I won't be spending all day just trying to load the OS when I visit him due to all the bloatware/malware that will attack windows OS haha. Save your money and get one of those PC laptops with touch features.
5|Very user friendly and intuite machine. I love it.
5|Mac book pro was nice to use and good to handle ..
5|As a Mac lover, very happy with this laptop. Also like having a built in cd drive, necessary feature for me over an air! Would purchase again!
5|I bought this as a gift for my boyfriend knowing I could later expand ram if needed and he loves it.
5|Great computer, plenty of power for the price. Great battery life.
5|Used windows based computers for years and finally got a Mac!! Why did I wait so long!! Great computer! Extremely stable and fast!!
4|This was a Great black Friday buy. This purchase is for a college student.
4|The Apple Support team is great,,but I don't like the fact I had to pay hundreds of extra dollars for that 3 year option.
4|Just in time my old computer was obsolete so I got a great deal on this one and it works perfectly for me. I know I will need to learn how to use it more effectively but right from the start it's better than my previous one.
4|I had a apple before, I loved everything about it but it broke. So I bought a new one
5|Works great out of the box and is user friendly!!!
5|This is exactly as described and was the perfect gift.
5|But I wish the price was better for it being an older model.
4|Nice solid laptop, and I believe it's the last Macbook with a built-in optical drive. A little sluggish due to the spindle disk, an SSD would be a worth while upgrade. Otherwise a very solid laptop in a small form factor.
5|As always Apple put out a great product. Great display and easy to use. Seamless integration on my network. A+++
5|I bought this for my daugther for college. It has all she needs.
5|This is my first Apple laptop after having multiple windows pc's. I love the Apple. While I have had multiple iPhones and an iPad, there is a major difference in the learning curve with the MacBook. It has taken a short amount of time to adjust to the operating system. Great product!
5|I have owned many Apple products, and this one is doing well as the others all have. Easy to setup out of the box with fun Apple programs. Love it!
5|I mostly use it for school and it works great. I love it.
5|I have no complaints I can do a lot of my work from the computer
4|Easy to set up. Nice screen. Love Apple. Stupendous!
5|Excellent laptop. Used for Dj gigs. No problems at all.
4|I like the macbookpro. Still learning how to use everything
4|The machine operate as expected. I bought it for my daughter who is in 7th grade. It should be good until she finish high school.
5|I'm so happy with my Mac! Great product for a great price!
5|I bought this laptop because my husband has one and I liked it, was considering getting the new one or this and chose this instead and I'm glad I did.
4|Great product with good warranty. Accurate shipping
5|I prefer a Mac because of the years of experience and because of the ease.
5|The kids are very excited to use them and seem worth the cost.
5|I absolutely love my MacBook Pro! It runs smooth and OSX El Capitain is great!
5|The MacBook Pro is a excellent laptop, my kids both enjoy them and are able to do so much on them. Have bought other laptops in the past and this one by far is worth the money!
5|Another terrific laptop from Apple. This was to replace a much older one and I love the sleek design.
5|Great computer.....had it for a couple mints. The only problem I had was getting email switched over from my fell but I don't think that was the Mac issue but rather mine
4|I gave it 4 out of 5 stars because it was a lil heavy.
5|Apple delivers again. Great product for my student.
4|I love all Apple products and am pleased with my purchase
4|I purchased the Laptop as an upgrade from my MacBook Air and overall am pleased with my purchase. It's not the fastest thing out of the box, but everything can be upgraded for a pretty decent price.
4|My son wanted this. It took me some time to figure out. So far so good.
5|Always wanted a MAC and got this at a great price! Love Apple devices and this is no different! Wonderful laptop!
4|Perfect compact laptop. Fast and compatible to my needs.
5|Great value just what you would expect from a Mac also great Black Friday deal
5|I absolutely love my new MacBook. Bought some accessories with the the Black Friday savings
5|Excellent laptop, like all Apple products very easy to use and setup.
4|I general this was a great buy to upgrade my old MacBook circa 2007. The only issues I have are with file transfer since the two are hardly compatible since I could not uprgrade the OS to Lion on the old computer. I had read about this before, and was aware this would be an issue, and it is amounting to be a formidable one, as all of my iWork files need to be converted and saved as txt or windows version, in order for the new programs to open them... this was something I was NOT aware of. Next time, I will not wait as long to upgrade, which was clearly my issue. And THANK GOD I had an external drive to back-up to and use for the basic system information transfer. GO ME! LOL
4|I have always been a Windows guy, but after having too many issues this year with Creative Suite's font library not matching up with my school's Mac fonts, I decided that the easiest way to work on projects is to get a Mac. I immediately replaced the HDD with and SSD as well as putting in 16GB of RAM, and this thing FLIES. From a cold start, it takes at most 15 seconds to get me to my desktop, and all of my design software opens incredibly fast. This might be an older machine, but with a couple of easy upgrades, I could see myself using this for years down the road (along with the great build quality, of course).
4|It's an awesome computer! Now I wanna change my Android phone to an apple phone! It's so much easier to operate!!!
5|I love it, programing is very easy to understand! Great size not too big but not small! Would definitely recommend.
5|I've been wanting a MacBook and should have purchased this instead of the different brand. IBeing a college student, this fits perfectly into both my busy school and private life. The price also fit my budget! I couldn't be happier!
5|Am an Apple user all the way.. this is a good deal as it was $200 off the listed price. purchasing as a gift for my niece .
5|Easy to learn however keyboard was a little hard to get use to
5|People, get you technology right, MACs are better get one and you will tell me the differences
5|I have many of these. I use them for my business and work great
5|I have never had a problem with Mac nor have my friends and are great products
5|Good service on good product.. I hope that every time I need help it is there
4|Excellent version as long as you don't really care about Retina display. 500gb hd puts it at an advantage to air priced at similar range
5|For the price, this laptop can't be beat. I love Apple products and this is one of my favorites.
5|I was looking for a macbook for so long and then I found this one, I bought an open box product, and it saved me money. Even though it's open box it works great!
5|I love my apple laptop. Great for pictures. Easy to use.
5|Purchased for my college age daughter and she loves it. Works perfecting with all other existing equipment. Highly recommend this computer to anyone.
4|I heard that an Apple would be faster and better than other computers, but nobody told me that my new Samsung phone wouldn't back up on it easily...that's real hurdle. Plus my Canon copier will print from it, but will NOT SCAN with the Apple.....That was also a negative surprise. So I will need to get an iphone to replace my new Samsung so that they will work together, and will have to dig up my old laptop to scan a document. Other than that, it's a nice computer.
5|Excellent performance, very user friendly, price was great (for a mac--this new one on sale was about the same price as the refurbished I was looking at in the apple store)
5|I just love this computer, I'm not having any problems.
5|I have other apple products so I am familiar with the functions. There is a learning curve from use a pc to a Mac. Overall great investment.
5|I have always been a fan of Mac products since 2009. I decided to buy my daughter a Mac for Xmas.
5|This is my very first major computer purchase, and i am beyond pleased with how easy it is to navigate through all the new icons in the toolbar. I am also very pleased with the quick speed it possess. I would definitely recommend this product to anyone interested in making the right purchase when it comes to laptops.
5|This is my first Macbook and I love it!! its a great laptop and a great price!
4|I'm a new user to Mac. Right out of the box and first couple days it was really slow and lagged quit a bit. Never figured out why it was like that but it fine now and really feels great. Feels very sturdy and feels like great quality! And for not being retina the picture quality is pretty outstanding.
5|Good product to buy. This is my first Mac and I loved this product.
5|It will be great for the business she is in! She loves it!
5|this purchase was a investment for my child who is a college student. The Mac is very efficient in weight for being carried across a college campus. The bundle package was good and I was offered the student discount
5|Does everything I need it to do, I would never go back to Microsoft!
4|Purchased as open-box item. Had small dent in the underside of macbook, but did not affect overall look or functionality. Works great &amp;amp; is the perfect upgrade from my previous 2003 Macbook.
5|I needed a laptop with a CD-DVD drive/burner, and I wanted an Apple product. The price was right and the processor was fast enough and the storage was good, too. I bought two 4mb memory modules to upgrade to the max for this model and am quite happy with my MacBook Pro.
5|Everything he expected and more super fast Apple is a great product
4|Well overall its a good computer and it works for my needs as a Nursing student.
5|Great product for a child or adult. User friendly.
5|Just doing this for the reward points, computer was for son to use at college, and he hasn't had any problems that I am aware of
4|The Macbook is definitely slower than the newer models. That's due to the 4 GB of RAM and the mechanical hard drive. If you upgrade those two things then this unit become a great unit at a fraction of the price.
5|An amazing computer that will last! I have had a iMac for the past 7 years and it is still running really smooth. Great products!
5|I am not a band wagoner but all our phones,tablets and most computers are apple products. It has become an integrated system. Why. Because I have had only one minuscule problem with any of the products I've owned. This computer is the same as others that I have. No difference in quality. I will make one notation though. Apple is neglecting to put DVD drives In Some of thier computers which at this point in time I think is a bad idea. DVDs are still a widely used form of data transfer and an external drive is just not as convenient
5|I never owned a MacBook before but I was tired of replacing laptops every 2-3 years. A coworker recommended I try the MacBook because of the longevity of their product. I was nervous at first because Mac is very different from Windows. Everyday I'm learning something new and growing in the love with my new laptop daily.
5|Really like my new MacBook. Was easy to setup. Like the older version because I have the option to increase the memory.
4|I purchased this MAC for my daughter at College. She had a 4+ year old MAC that she received Freshman year in High School and it was time to get her a new one. We had purchased this MAC for my other daughter in September 2015 and she loves it so we got the same one again!
5|I love this computer because it works fast and is efficient.
5|Apple is a great product to begin with especily at this price. Love the size and functions.
5|We bought this Macbook Pro during the sale and it's awesome. I use the same computer for work and I like the fact that it includes the SuperDrive. With an external monitor, its even better and very portable.
5|Great computer! Easy set up. The DVD drive does make it a little heavily but I use it only at home so not a problem for me.
5|I love the product I love the product. I love the product
4|it's good for a student like me never struck in the middle of a work great battery life.
5|I am very happy with my new MacBook Pro. It is fast and reliable. I opted to get the older version of the MacBook Pro with the CD drive because I wanted to be able to access my CDs. It makes the computer heavier, but I am happy that I got the CD drive because I use it often. I do not travel with my laptop much because I have a reliable work computer. However, if I needed to travel with my laptop more, then I would have probably opted for the Air.
5|Very pleased with this purchase. It was a Christmas gift for my 15 year old daughter and she's enjoying it very much. One small issue with the camera that was easily resolved through an Internet search which doesn't change for opinion.
5|For the last 10 years I have been consistently buying PC's. For me they were the most affordable and got the job done. Even so, it is hard to resist the appeal that a Mac computer has. I waited until the Black Friday sale to purchase this computer because there was no way I could see myself buying such an expensive product, even if it is a Mac. Even with the slight mark down this computer is still more expensive than most PCs. However it is completely worth it. It is faster than any PC I have ever owned. Since this was my first Apple Product I was worried it would take me a while to learn their operating system but that was not the case. The transition was easy. I am still learning new shortcuts everyday but it has not slowed me down in the slightest. For those who want to transition from a PC to a Mac go with this laptop. It still has a CD drive, the new Macs are moving away from that. The screen is amazing and the battery life is spectacular. I just can't emphasize enough about the battery life for this computer. With my old PC I was able to get 3hrs max on battery. With this Mac I am able to use it for at least 7hrs on one full charge. And that means watching movies, multitasking, editing, etc. Things like this would easily drain my PC but my Mac keeps going strong. I have only had this computer a month, but I could easily say that I am not going back to a PC anytime soon. I still want to see how this computer fares in a year, but based on other reviewers answers it should still be working fine.
5|Great laptop for all ages. Great for schoolwork or everyday use.
5|Great device. Big enough small enough to travel with. Great device for music engineers or for musicians. Purchase protective cover for extra protection.
5|It is a Mac. What more can you say! Easy to operate, reliable and the best of the best. Not going to lie. It is slightly heavier than expected, but no big deal.
5|It's what I expect from Apple, less than 5 minuets out of the box
5|This was a great gift for my son who is in college, it will definitely be around for graduation in 3 years, unlike a PC!
4|Easy to setup, bought it for my daughter to do her school work.
5|After deciding to finally switch from Windows to Mac, I'm glad I did. I'm still adjusting to some minor changes but so far, I'm happy with my new Macbook. I'm about to start on a graphics-intensive project which I'm sure my Macbook could handle with ease.
5|This computer is so compatible for those who are familiar with Apple products! Great purchase for me! I am absolutely pleased with my purchase!
4|Easy to use. Easy to figure out problems you might encounter.
5|Purchased this product for $899 during Cyber Monday for my brother. He loves it. It's fast, clean design, hooked up easy to wifi! Ready to go right out of the box.
5|So far, this laptop has been very user friendly and easy for my daughter to learn using.
5|Good laptop as expected of mac. But unfortunately, I had to return it to take the Retina version of it.
5|Always have had a Mac and i will never go to anything else. The operating system is so smooth and no junk popping up asking you to do something.
5|Bought it for my wife for Christmas, and so far she loves it. Laptop is a little thicker then the Air but has a drive and battery life is better, so the choice is yours. For her she prefers the pro.
5|My daughter loves it!! Arrived on time, good deal.
5|Easy to use and understand. Great for prospective college student. I like how my iphone syncs up with the laptop
5|Good product, High quality, heavy duty. No bad issues Highly recommended!
4|This computer is not compatible with Microsoft software and components. We ran into trouble running some video software and cords.
5|I have been looking a long time for a sale on this model and got exactly what I wanted. Thanks...
5|I really like this computer a lot. Compared to my HP this one is so much better and easier to use. I would recommend this computer to everyone!
4|Makes my tv. sound much better &amp;amp; can hear the talking of the actors much better than just the tv.speakers.
4|Good MacBook option with expandability and decent size screen.
4|Great entry Mac laptop. I got it for my teenager for school work and research.
5|This computer is excellent. I went back and forth between this and the Air. I was replacing an old 2008 Mac Book, and this more than exceeded expectations. There is reason I won't leave apple products.
5|At first I Was a little disappointed at the looks of it. Looks simple thicker then what I was expecting but when I stared usinging my MacBook . It was Great for all my needs easy to manage great quality. A little heavy but not a big deal. Smooth navigation a little expensive but well worth my money.
5|Everything I expected. Usual Apple quality. Great deal.
5|I'm Satisfied! I didn't need the latest model this one does the job!
5|Bought it for my son for Christmas &amp;amp; he loves it. I would recommend this product
5|my daughter was sooo excited to open her MAC computer on Christmas day. Only the best will do and she loves it! No problems and easy set up. She will have this computer all through high school (8th grade now) and then some! worth the money!
5|This is my first MacBook, it took a little while to get to know how to use it, but after I watched a tutorial on YouTube everything was seamless!
5|2nd laptop I have bought for a child in college love them!
5|I purchased this computer for my husband as a Christmas gift and he absolutely loves everything about it! The user interface is easy to use and all of the fun features are much more advanced than any of the other HP computers that he has had before.
5|Once again Apple doesn't disappoint. Everything about the machine is first class!
5|Liked the computer and the DVD feature so much that I just got the same one again when I needed to replace my other one.
5|Computer is easy to use. It was great to link my iPhone with it too. It will be great to use for school.
5|My friend and her daughter have MACs, so I was able to "test drive" the product before purchasing. I am very pleased.
5|My laptop has been great so far! Really enjoying my Mac!
4|I use my macbook pro for school which involves usage of adobe premiere pro and it's handled nicely. It suits my needs of a portable computer weight-wise and size-wise. Syncing imessages between my iphone and macbook is a big plus.
5|Apple products are a little more pricey, but you get what you pay for.
5|I love the MacBook Pro. Even though it's not Retina display, I appreciate that it is the last model before retina. One of a kind.
5|I got this for my sister and she loves it. It is easy to use.
5|I love it, very functional, clean and efficient. We love it
5|Speed, storage, and quality resolution make it an amazing platform. I'm starting to learn it as this is my first Mac system.
5|Great Device for the price...it does pretty much everything...fast and reliable
5|The mac book is an excellent laptop..I bought it for my son xmas gift and he loves it This is our first but won't be the last one
5|As usual apple makes great product ,long battery life
5|I will never buy another PC...I just bought my second macbook (one for my husband) because they are just so reliable. Such amazing quality!
5|It could be a little faster and sometimes when I open it and enter my password it gets stuck or loads and makes me enter it again, but other than that, I love it. Great quality for the price
5|Love it!! Great for school and any other uses, I use it for high school since my other laptop started running really slow and so far I've had no difficulties with this one!
5|The Macbook Pro is a terrific laptop.As an Apple user, when an opportunity to acquire an Apple product at a Black Friday price..one has to act fast. This computer does almost every job you can imagine.. it even sports a DVD recorder/player...along with a 500 GB hard drive. Uses an older Intel chip but the speed is more than adequate even for streaming videos.
4|I recommend Apple products. Replacing a MacBook with a new one.
5|Great product I ended up returning it because my wife liked the air better but it is a great computer. If it was up to me I would have kept it.
5|This is the best laptop I have owned. It is so fast and has great graphics.
5|I have a iPhone already. It just made sense to me to buy the MacBook Pro.
5|My son was so excited to get this laptop for Christmas
5|The Mac Book Pro is an excellent laptop. I bought it as a christmas gift for my daughter. She loves it and I do as well. Easy to use graphics are great and compact.
3|One of the fastest computers I ever owned! Works very well. Easy to use.
5|I got this on Black Friday and I'm so glad I did. It's a little heavier than I expected but I love it!
5|have owned many apple products, including macbook air and macbook pro. This is a great computer!
4|Verry nice. My daughter love it, ..................
5|The size and speed are great for a college student
3|Not good, i was thinking it has no problem. But the problem is very SLOW
5|I purchased this during the black friday sales. certainly not going to find a lower price on a MacBook like this anywhere else. Despite being an older model, it runs exceptionally fast, the battery life is very good and the bonus of having a disc port is tough to find these days.
4|If you prefer to have the option to upgrade your RAM and Hard Drive then this is a good choice if not the only choice when it comes to MacBooks. The newer ones don't give you that option. I preferred the latest MacBook Air with a 256GB SSD. Its SSD is very quick in comparison and for my use the 4 GB RAM is ample enough. I'm not a gamer.
5|MY husband loves this laptop. Everything is convient and easy to use
5|When we arrived to pick up computer after being notified it was ready to be picked up, customer pick up did not have it. After45 minutes they finally figured out how to get one that was already in store to sell us.
5|We use this for business. It's perfect for Microsoft Office and QuickBooks. No complaints.
5|This is the perfect Macbook computer for personal/school use. It's small, easy to use, and has a CD drive (the air models do not). Very happy with my purchase!
5|Gave it to my girl for Christmas and she really enjoys it.
4|At first to scroll with mouse pad was a little tricky. Overall good computer
5|This is my first Mac Computer and liked everything in it! I bought this model because of the built-in CD drive, though it becomes little bit heavier.
4|Was not crazy about getting this for my daughter in college, but did and so far its been worth the money. She loves it.
5|Very pleased with my Apple purchase. It's everything I thought it would be.
5|3RD MAC PRO WE HAVE PURCHASED. WE ARE VERY HAPPY WITH THIS LAPTOP
5|This computer is great for college. It is light and easy to use
5|Both of my children own a mac book and have had no trouble with it for over 5 years. I have gone through 2 Dell laptops in 5 years. I know that this is a good computer and that is why I bought it.
5|I purchased the mac book pro for a college student who requested this do all computer. It will keep her organized for school and has the ability to watch dvd's. She loves it!
5|Great! Love it! It is as good as I have heard about
4|gotta get used to the Mac os as I've always had a pc but love the mac!!
5|I knew I wanted to buy the MacBook Pro, when I saw the price I didn't hesitate to buy it.
5|Can never go wrong with apple products. Great computer for the $
5|I bought this laptop for my niece. She is entering high school. She loved it so I highly recommend it to buyers out there.
5|Own this product already ... Love it so much I bought this for my daughter
5|I love the versatility and quality and longevity that a Mac offers!
5|Great speed, quality, and bang for the buck. Will recommend this Apple product to anyone!
5|I was really debating on what kind of laptop to buy but when I saw this one I knew it was perfect!
5|Great lap top . Perfect size and easy to carry Back and forth to classes . My older daughter had had the Mac book pro for three years and has had zero problems with it I would recommend if u have high school or college students
5|Black Friday special was great!!!! Made affordable as a teenage gift:)
3|I give this Mac book to my Grandma for School and she like it. Mac books are the best for business or if you're working on a project. It's not a gaming computer so that's a bummer.
5|great lop top ease to use fast when use the internet
5|This is the first time of having an apple macbook and I love it. It's fast and easy to used and is not slowing me down like windows laptop. It could be expensive but it's worth it.
5|Bought it for my kids for doing school homework &amp;amp; studying, so far so good! Highly recommended!
5|I'm a big fan of all Apple products, but there laptops are better than anything on the market. The i5 processor is lightning fast.
5|I bought this Laptop for my daughter and she loves it.
5|I love the looks of the apple laptop &amp;amp; all the great functions that your able to do with the laptop.
5|If you want to dip your toes in to the waters of Mac, this is how I've done so. It's not a bad experience as my first computer running OS X, having spent decades in the Windows world. A decent performing laptop that rises above the net book level. Maxing out RAM to 16 GB is almost a must for heavy media production. But for casual users, it's snappy out of the box.
5|I absolutely love my MacBook Pro! It's easy and wonderful to use.
5|The last MacBook Pro you can upgrade yourself. also it is one of the last ones that come with a built in DVD drive.
5|This is my first Macbook and I am very satisfied with it ~ Looking forward to learning more of its great features.
5|love this computer. would recommend to any student.
5|I decided to upgrade this year and great choice since I've been using this product
5|Top of the line mac book, would definitely recommend. Has all the computing power and features that other brands just can't compete with.
5|I am glad I got this item. It's very nice and got what I expected. It's a good one.
5|I do like all the system it's old but enough for me
3|It's easy to use, convenient, the mouse seems to go stuck when u right click.
5|After opening the box I realized that it was the perfect laptop for my son. He begin using it and was very excited and happy to have it. Apple products are great to use.
4|The Apple product comes with the name and the Black Friday rates were too good to resist.
4|This computer is obviously better than my old computer. It's much faster and smarter super happy with this purchase
5|Using a Mac Book Pro is the best choice I made with electronics. So worth all of the money, this is my second time purchasing a pro.
5|We now have two in our household, saving for a third one.
5|I have only good things to say about my new mac. It is quick and easy to use. Love my Mac!
5|Only had it for a month so far and am really enjoying. First time Mac user so I'm hoping to take some classes.
5|I waited quite a while before purchasing a new laptop, but I'm glad I did. And, I'm especially glad that I didn't go with something inferior because of a lower price. With the lure of a $200 discount in place on Black Friday, purchasing this MacBook Pro was the best decision I could have made. All of the Apple laptops were of the highest quality, but the MacBook Pro is the leader of their group. It has all of the features I was looking for, and although I would have liked the Retina display the output on this unit is nonetheless excellent. Other features such as a CD/DVD drive and an IR port are important to me, and although you can add external items as optional equipment it's way more convenient to have them built in. Finally, the track pad is by far superior to everything else out there. Hope this helps.
4|Easy to set up and use. I was on the internet in a matter of minutes.
5|A great laptop for the price and is perfect for my first Apple computer. It does everything I need it to for a basic computer until I get more experience and make the transition to Apple products from my pc. Thank goodness I no longer have to deal with all the extra "junk" software that pc manufacturers put on new their computers.
5|I have long been a fan of MacBooks and this one is excellent as expected
5|Like all Apple products, it takes time to learn but once you learn more it seems to work more logically than the competition.
5|Awesome purchase! I highly doubt I'll need another computer anytime soon
4|I had an older model that lasted five years and was happy to replace with a newer model
4|Got this macbook during the thanks giving for my friend and he loves it. He plans to use it for the next 6 years.
5|This computer does it all. I wish I would have had this lab top years ago. It would have made my life and college work a lot easier.
5|This computer was a hit on Christmas morning! He was so excited, as he is familiar with MacBooks and aware of the many features he will have. It has more then met his expectations! This machine is so worth the investment! I highly recommend it!
4|Love this computer. Is fast and easy to use. And love it even more for the picture editing.
4|I went from a 17 in Windows hp to this 13 in Mac... My very first and I love it. So happy I did it.
5|Love the product. Great operating system and easy to use
5|It is amazing for a college student very dependable and easy to set up and use.
5|its great laptop!! It's size is perfect! Not too big or small!!! &amp;amp; it's just really fast!!! Lol Got it at a great price on Black Friday!!
5|This product is amazing my daughter was pleased great product
5|My college son was absolutely thrilled with this laptop. Immediately set it up and was completely pleased with it.
2|My laptop stopped working within 30 days of purchase
5|After much research, the operating system and ability of the pro stood above the rest
5|The Macbook Pro is a great product. Very user friendly.
5|good items i will be happy to recommend it to a friend.
5|Nice device to buy. This computer is just a little smart jewerly to ow as student.
5|My daughter was very excited to receive this for Christmas. It is reliable, fashionable, and economical.
5|My son kept telling me "Dad you need to buy an Apple computer." "It's better than Windows." I read a lot of reviews as well. I still just didn't want to spend a whole lot of money for a computer. The salesman came over to help us as we looked at the Apple computers. He said you know these are on sale today for $899.00. The combination of price the reviews and of course my sons opinion. I made the purchase. It has not been hard to transition. I love it so far.
5|Very helpful staff. Friendly personnel throughout entire store. Very inviting. Love the Mac Pro glad we made the switch. Very fast download speeds
5|This is my first purchase of a macbook. I've always had a PC but I've wanted a Mac for so long now and I just absolutely love it. It's going to take some getting use to but everything is so fast and clear.
5|I bought this after many PCs and am so happy with it. Runs so much better than Windows.
5|my son loved is computer. it is wonderful and fast
5|Very nice, upgraded RAM and is happy with this... will surely recommend it to anyone.
1|My daughter is happy with her Mac Book Pro. She had a great Xmas!
5|My daughter has always liked Apple computers and what a better time to get her one for college.
5|I absolutely love my MacBook. Best purchase I've made
5|Our high school senior loves his computer. He feels it was the best choice we could have made for his upcoming college experience.
4|He is happy with it, he wanted mac. This was a Christmas/Graduation gift.
5|Virus free I don't know how they do it. The only laptop I know of that is virus free
5|This product is as good as expected. i bought two same product .
4|great computer but my sister has the newest version of the pro but hers is a lot lighter and then display is a lot sharper.
5|Great processing speed Touch pad is accurate I like I so much
5|I bought in Black friday and I really like it. However it has die for serval times and I have to push the On button to restart it .. This is not good..
5|I love how apple products work with one another. Seemless!
5|Mac Book Pro was a great gift for a teenager, the setup was quite simple although she had never used an Apple computer. Great purchase for a great price.
5|My daughter loves it and I would recommend it for all college students
5|First MacBook and so far I love it. Gotta get used to it since I always used Windows. Graphics are great and runs smoothly.
5|Very user friendly. Excellent battery life. Beautiful graphics.
4|Wish the computer had more memory and a larger hard drive but excellent product!
4|I wanted to replace my MacBook Pro that I purchased in 2007 and this was the perfect choice. While at 13 inches it is considerably smaller than my 17 inch machine, it can still do everything that the original can do and so much more. I am now going to invest in Final Cut X to produce my home movies and I already use it to create newsletters for my job using pages. It is very fast in every way and the color is vivid.
5|Computer looks awesome, and runs great! Really happy with my purchase!
5|The best thing about mac is I dont have to worry about the specs. It just works great from the the onset. It goes to show why apple is the best in laptop and mobile tech
5|I love my computer,I haven't had any issues out of it
4|I use an apple at work, but had a toshiba at home. I decided to upgrade to an apple when I needed to get a new laptop. Works great and love the consistency between work and home.
5|Price, features, and quality make for a great purchase
5|We have 2 of these items. They Are Used for college. Great product. Very reliable, especially having no worries about viruses.
5|Sattisfied,im happy with the product.genuin product.
5|This macbook is awesome! Got this for my son thats in his second year of college. He absolutely loves it!
5|Great for my teen daughter, she has not put it down yet.
4|We purchased this Pc for our Son in College as a Christmas gift.
5|Bought it for my bf, he loves it. Perfect to do his music beats and browse the web.
5|This computer was everything I was looking for! I am able to use a plethora of different programs that fit my needs. A great buy!
5|Great laptop, setup was easy. Within minutes I was sending emails, listening to iTunes!
5|Sleek styling and quick processor. Easy setup and minimal time before you are up and running
5|the MacBook Pro is a fun computer to use. It's very user friendly and even has a tutorial if you haven't used an Apple computer before.
5|The computer is great and works just like I had thought
5|Love this MacBook pros!!! It just does whats suppose to do!
5|I got it during thanksgiving. $200 discount is great:-)
5|Works very well, great customer service. I love it
5|I switched to a Mac after having an HP for years and I must say I'm glad I did! Though it's a huge difference, I find my Mac a lot easier to manage. What I do find myself missing from an HP, Mac makes up for in other ways. I love it!
5|User friendly with awesome software. Perfect size for all my needs as I get ready to head to college!
5|So this is my first Apple computer purchase since my mom bought me a Apple Macintosh computer as a child and I LOVE IT!! I know it's the 2012 MacBook version but honestly I'm not into the flash storage or not being able to store lots of information (i.e. songs and pictures) on my computer. PLUS the price on Black Friday was a little too hard to pass up.
5|This is the second MacBook purchased in 6 years. This one is for my boyfriend's use. I have used all the memory in my "old" Macbook, but I refuse to stop using it. As per usual, MacBooks are solid construction and most importantly, they are not targeted by viruses like PCs. If your kiddo is entering college, there is NO NEED to purchase the MS Suite, as the Apple version can read, write and change all Word, Excel and Powerpoint documents for FREE! I can make PDF files easily. I can export to any number of formats. This product is easy to use (once you make the transition to Apple products). And if you purchase AppleCare, you take take lessons at the Apple Store FOR FREE for a year. Hello? Are you buying this yet?
5|Excellent! Exactly what I needed and it works fast.
5|Excellent laptop for students. Easy to use and navigate. Communicates with all other Apple products.
5|Amazing laptop. I love apple products anyway, so I finally saved up and got it. Worth every penny.
5|Older model so a little heavier than the new version. However, one plus is it comes with the cd drive. Good deal.
4|I was looking for decent configuration Mac without burning too much money. This model was in right price range. I might have preferred Mac Air even $100 - 150 extra for similar configuration.
4|I bought this laptop for my kid, he'll use it at the school
4|It is so nice. Camera quality is so good. Battery life is so good.
4|Overall this is an excelent purchase, but I realized that I need more space.
5|Went for the pro because the air doesn't have a DVD or any other drive. Our whole household has apple products with phones &amp;amp; tablets but our laptops are all Toshibas. This makes it so much easier to transfer photos, documents, and other files through the cloud.
5|I've always had iphones and ipods, but never had a MAC computer. This is a great intro computer for a MAC type, and I love it. Always will be loyal to Apple.
5|Apple is best I am very satisfied with the product
4|Good computer for a beginner. Not to fast and not to much memory for who need it a lot
5|I just received this laptop but so far it's been easy to install and has everything I want!
5|This machine is perfect for college students and home use. Compact, quick and easy to use.
5|Finally made the switch to a Mac and won't look back. The online purchasing process was slightly aggravating because everything did not ship together or in a timely manner but it was to be expected during the holiday season. Overall very happy with the purchase.
5|I love my new MacBook. They are a little pricey but I feel it is easy to use and will last a long time!
5|Love my new Apple MacBook computer! It is awesome......
5|This is the one and only computer to have. Best Christmas present.
5|I love my Mac book pro is very good laptop, is the best...
5|My wife wanted it so I bought it for her. She loves it
5|Being a windows guy up until now i am very happy that i made the jump. i've since upgraded my mac a bit. from 4 gigs to 8 gigs of Ram and changed the HDD To a SSD. the mac was great before but now it's even Better
4|This laptop meets all the needed specs for editing videos, high graphic content such as 3D or 4k, gaming and photo editing, etc. It's great for replacing a desktop if you want portability. The only negative I had was the weight. It's 6.24lbs, which is heavier than my windows laptop and other Macbooks. Even without the retina display (which only matters if you previously had a retina display model) this laptop is great. The price was attractive but in the end I returned it because I needed (more so wanted) something lighter &amp;amp; w/ more flexibility to carry on a plane in my tote bag vs a laptop bag. I would recommend this if price is a factor. If you check the website (I was more so stalking the site everyday) every few days the new MB pro will have sales. I managed to get the 8gb, 256 ssd model for $1199.99 w/ a PNY 128 flash drive for $19.99 (4 hr flash sale deal) to make up for the lack of storage space.
5|I love this laptop, it is sturdy and compact. I love Apple computer period.
5|The computer is great. I have been a Windows person for a long time and thought I would have a hard time learning Apple. It is easy to use. I love the classes the Apple store give.
5|I have always wanted an apple and this is meeting all my expectations!
5|My Daughter wanted this computer real bad and it made a perfect fit into our apple family.
5|This is the best computer, very fast, secure and good quality for tour money.
5|I had a wonderful time shopping at this store there nice and really passionate about there job.
5|Excellent computer works great feels great prefect for a gift!
5|This is our second MacBook Pro. Using this one for work. Best option for syncing work documents to phone or laptop. Never had a virus or any issue with any of the Mac's I've owned. Can't say the same for other PC's I've owned.
5|Bought Macbook Pro for girlfriend after she went through several PCs. She loves it for school and it is a very reliable computer. I have had mine for 5 years. Love the fact that the memory is upgradable, unlike the new Retina displays.
5|The MacBook pro is an excellent laptop at a great value.
5|I am a student, this was a great purchase. You can work in multiple programs without it slowing down
5|I bought my Macbook Pro for grad school and I could not be happier with my purchase!
5|I have used Windows all my life. This is my first Mac and so far I am amazed at how smooth it is running. It is very user friendly and I absolutely love the design of this laptop. It is a bit on the heavy side so not the best if you need on to be on the move. It is better for a one location use.
4|I was a PC user in the past and was therefore hesitant to purchase a Mac computer. So far I am glad I made the switch. The MacBook is very user friendly and I like that it connects with my other Apple devices.
5|This Macbook has everything I need. I bought the retina model and returned it for this model and I made a good choice! the non retina is perfect for my needs. No need for a super HD screen. This screen has stunning images and besides I can upgrade in the future. A great buy!!!
5|This laprop was perfect for what I needed. Was a new change for me ....always used MS Windows before, but i am liking this mac!
5|Bought this for gift for granddaughter. It was great price on sale and even though still more money than a lot of others, felt that it would be a good one for her through school years and for her photography.
5|Excellent laptop for a college student. Easy to use. My son loves it because it communicates with his other Apple products. This is our third Macbook in the family. Great price for the value!
5|This will work for what we need. Bought it bc of potential of upgrade and cd option.
4|So far, so good. I really like this product. Perfect for simple things.
5|What can I say... My mac is a great machine and always reliable!
5|Though not with the retinal display this has the CD port and bigger hard-drive than those with the retina display. Main use will be for photography editing and down loading photos from the camera when traveling.
3|I did not pick this laptop up new. I couldn't stomach paying $900+ for it. First, the laptop looks nice. Second, you can actually upgrade the laptop memory and storage unlike the newer MacBooks. However, the laptop performance is subpar other laptops in the same price category. The display is ok but difficult to read on unlike the retina display. I added a solid state drive (500 GB) and maxed out the memory (16 GB) and it's reasonably zippy. However if you tried that new, you would have to add $200+ to the laptop price not counting the installation cost. If you want to ease into a Macbook and be able to upgrade later down the line, this one is your only choice. If you want performance out of the box, pick up a retina Macbook Pro.
5|The product works very well and meeting all my needs
5|Love it. If you buy you will not be disappointed!!
5|This computer is perfect for a college student, it does everything I need it too!
5|Great product will always reccomend any apple product
5|I had several other laptop computers and none of them even begin to compare. Apple is the best laptop faster, more reliable, and has great support team. Once I learned the short cuts and how to use the computer. Great applications and safer to use with security features, Small and light as well.
5|My son loves the Mac book. Exactly what he needed for college! Great quality!
5|Great laptop not like anything else I've used before
5|I travel and was always fielding calls from my family. Moved them to Mac and now I'm free!!!
5|I'm a new convert to Apple and I love it. Works great
4|I purchased this MacBook Pro as a replacement for a 2008 Santa Rosa MacBook Pro. Or I thought it would be. The worst thing about this is the Intel graphics card. The Intel HD 4000 is ok for running PSE 11 and my Silhouette Cameo software, but not for ANY games. If you want to play anything outside of solitaire or the occasional Hidden Picture game, try a better computer. It does all the basics though.
4|This is the last chance to get a new mac book pro with super drive, upgrade able, memory, and hard drive. Doesn't have the same battery life as the most recent models but will last 7 hours. Add more memory so your apps run faster.
5|I love my mac, this is my second one, my first one finally died after many years
4|Great service easy in easy out always good service
5|Good value for the price. Quality is above average
5|Bought for my daughter in college - exactly what she needed.
5|Second MacBook I have bought, great device. Good device for kids school homework.
5|I liked this Laptop although it's bit expensive compare to other laptops (HP, Dell) and configuration wise it's a bit low (on RAM and HDD) compare to the money I spend. But it's a apple product and Mac OS. Top of that $200 less from actual price. So it's a great buy.
5|its perfect for anything ! good memory storage!!!!
5|I'm so far very happy withat this puchase despite knowing that it is not the latest mac pro out there. I'm taking up photography and I believe this machine is excellent for that. I'm also able to do my work using excel. Great maxhine!
4|I love how all my apple devices sync together. Perfect for my needs.
5|I love it...I would buy another Mac over a pc these days
5|My daughter and niece received the 2011 version of the mac book pro and are still using it to this date. It has taken them all the way through college without a problem. Hopefully my niece will get the same usage. Great product.
5|I don't know why I didn't make the decision of investing on this equipment before. It is amazing!
5|Very versatile and user friendly and very reliable. Have always been an apple fan!
5|I've bought two of these MacBooks. One for me and one for my boyfriend. I had mine for almost a year, and while my boyfriend would use it more than his old toshiba, he ended getting one for himself too. Even though it's a 2012 model it didn't bother me because the Processor is faster than I imagined, Synced all of my over 1,000 photos over from my phone and still have tons of available space. We both love it! Get it while it's on sale.
5|It was a great computer and I love it. Can't wait for my next product.
5|Great apple product :) I have always wanted a macbook pro hasn't let me down
4|Great prouduct even though it was open box! Love it !
5|Apple really does make the best computers on the market they are worth the extra money
5|great computer for the price and easy to use very nice functions and keys to read
5|I bought this because i had previously owned and a Mac and they have only gotten better with time. I love the new OSX and with me owning other Apple products, the syncing is seamless. Love Mac and will never go back
4|happy with the computer for my son starting school
5|A durable laptop that does its job! I have owned another MacBook Pro and its lasted for a very long time. I purchased this one for my son.
5|I simply love it! Never disappointed at all! Hehe.
5|The MacBook Pro is long on features and short on the learning curve ...
5|When you think of quality it us simple . Just say Apple and Mac has it covered. I have used this computer daily and it is top level. I would highly recommend.
4|I have always had a mac book pro and I needed to replace my old MacBook. I bought this and it is great. Battery life could be better.
5|This is the best computer on the market today... I love the size and the performance and just a great price for a MAC - as they can be costly!!!!!
5|Love how fast it is! Great for college assignments
5|I love how it's eat to used great for me also would be great for any college kid who would want a reliable computer that will works great no problem at all. Best investment ever.
5|This replaced my husband's old MacBook which he had for years - new one works great - good value. Nice this model comes with CD drive.
4|Switched from a PC and found that the switch wasn't as easy as advertised. It doesnt load any faster than a PC. Great computer I'm sure but I just have yet to see any major advantage over a PC
5|I bought this laptop for my freshman year if college and its been a great tool
5|Last Mac you can upgrade! Easy to upgrade to an add for a lot less money than a new one.
5|I love my Mac. It's fast and reliable. The battery last a long time
4|Its okay but didn't realize it was only 4ram and i was hoping for a 8gram
4|Good quality laptop. First Apple computer. It takes a while getting used to Mac. I do think it's overpriced but overall, good product. Hopefully it lasts a while.
5|Awesome computer! I would recommend it to anyone wanting a computer for everyday use
5|Great product. appreciated the salesmans knowledge
5|Great value! Can add more memory and expand hard drive. Love that the keyboard is backlit. Great picture/graphics. I have nothing bad to say.
3|They said at the store the products were inspected. This was an open box item. It came with an invalid serial number. Tech support verified the non working serial number and also thought it was strange. YApple issued a different serial number. Sounds a little funny... Data transfer very difficult. Hope it is up to speed.
4|I absolutely love the MacBook Pro. It's user friendly and simple to operate. I use the wireless mouse with it to make life even easier.
5|I have had macbook pro before and this one does not disappoint. Very good, easy to use. I use this for my work computer but also to edit photos, make family home videos from camera, etc. It fits my needs, is fast enough for what I need. I would recommend this to anyone.
5|Good for photography and work and play usage. No complaints
4|It is very light but a little hard to get use to could be a little easier to work with. But has a lot of good features
5|Had to update with a newer model. Never had a problem with macs.
5|I am very pleased with my purchase of a new Apple computer. It was a good price, size, and I am thoroughly enjoying the features on it.
5|None of the hassles of a PC, great customer service. Easy to operate.
5|It's a MacBook. It's the best. What else do I need to say?
4|its a good lap top that works well. It has good proccessing power for a mac and the mac operating systems runs low key and takes up little of the background processes that windows computers are always running. I use it for school and the mac version of office works good.
5|Apple products are the only way to go. Never been disappointed
5|The laptop has helped me and I love working with it. It's easy to use and has great sound and color
5|I bought this for school; and also saved myself a good amount thanks to the college coupons that I signed up for!
4|Perfect for apple lovers! No problems and easy to use!
5|Always on the road, and this laptop was the best choice!
5|This Mac book does more than I ever could think of!
5|Purchased to make videos and it did not disappoint. So easy to use and fast!
5|Bought this to downgrade from my 15" MBP I use to Dj with, it's good for a back up with no lag or change in performance from either
5|I needed a new computer for school, and I found that this one fits my needs, and it was exactly what I needed.
5|This laptop surpasses my expectations! I'm still learning the shortcuts and features but I love it. I highly recommend it.
5|Though this is not the newest model, this is a great computer. It is perfect for people that don't necessarily need the retina display. It is light enough to carry and has a long battery life so it is great for school or travel.
5|Great Apple product as usual!! I purchased an Hp Laptop first bc the price was great but I returned it a few days later bc I was really dissatisfied with it. I then purchased the MacBook. Of course it was more expensive but it was worth every penny!
5|I bought this for school and it is equally a good as my iMac! Easy to get to know the new buttons and configuration that Apples uses as compared to my old windows system. lightning fast and plenty of room for storing my pictures and school work!
5|The only thing missing from this Macbook is a Solid State Drive. It is a little slower wit the original 500GB 5400 rpm drive. I upgraded mine with 240GB SSD and it flys.
5|this is one of the best laptops ever really recommend buying one
5|EXTERIOR IS ATTRACTIVE. IS WELL BUILD AND FEELS SOLID. USER FRIENDLY AND WORKS WITH SPEED. GOOD TUTORIAL SUPPORT WHEN NEEDED.
5|Computer is fast and friendly. First Apple computer will buy again
5|This is the last upgradeable (RAM, etc) laptop for Apple. Solid machine. Great for Apple users to connect all their Apple devices.
4|This computer operates in a clean and clear format. It is lightweight and therefore easily portable.
5|Was a gift for my 16 year old...She loves it! Highly recommended!
5|The purchase of my macpro was painless and I even ended up saving with and open box. The mac was just as promised it was like new and has been an asset to me in school, and business. If you want ease of use and a great operating system this is the way to go. Bye Felicia to the PC never again. Long Live Apple.
4|This is a good laptop, but know what you are getting. It is not a top of the line machine. I find it more than adequate, which is why I bought it, but I also have another higher end machine. I did find that this one did run a bit slow for my liking due to the limited memory (4GB) that comes with the machine, so I added additional memory (16GB) to make it run faster.
5|I wanted a laptop with an internal DVD/CD player and lots of internal storage. This had both and at an affordable price.
4|The MacBook, itself ran and is still working strong.
5|Jumped on the Apple train after getting tired of windows. Since I already have and Ipod and Ipad it only made sense. Mac has been great doing everything I need. I will most likely upgrade the ram. But I have had zero issues.
4|Love the instant set up and no downloading required
5|liked how we were helped right away. Great laptops.
4|I find that the computer works well, but seems to be a bit on the slow side. I'm not sure if that is owing to it being open box or the older model. For the price, I couldn't beat it.
5|Good computer, TVE camera is excellent , my computer is perfect for all i need
5|I appreciate how easy this computer is to use and there is some many things to like about it. It has an enormous amount of storage space, the screen is crystal clear and perfect for watching streaming shows.
5|i can use the laptop for making music and videos; nothing compares to a macbook and i got it at a good deal
5|I just converted from an HP to Mac in the past few weeks when my old computer got water damage from getting stuck in a rainstorm. I have an iPhone and figured, why not. I am so happy I did. I am so in love with my computer and love the way it runs! Apple all the way!
5|I'm old school. I want a built in optical drive. It is so convenient and really, I don't think it makes my laptop more delicate. I've had an air, but have to say, being able to burn CD's, photos, etc. without having to plug in an external optical disc, which I have found to be very fussy accessories, is a big plus.
5|Bought two of these computers for our twin daughters a few years back when they started college and now one for our granddaughter as she started college.
5|Works great for the use in college works really dpfast
4|The one reason I don't give it a five star is that the battery life does not last as long as I would like.
5|the mac if fantastic, love that it gets no viruses
5|This apple computer is just what I needed to get all my searches done fast
5|Very good material. Better than windows laptop. Like it
4|This was my fist time buying a Mac and I like it! It didn't blow me out of the water performance wise, and it takes a while to learn the OS if you're used to PCs, but overall, it seems to act like a high end PC.
5|I bought this laptop for my daughter as her going away present for college and she absolutely loves.
5|Bought for my 15 year old daughter for High School. Loves it. Much more efficient than her previous Samsung windows 8.1.
5|Like everything Apple makes, its a flawless product that performs as good as it looks. Price its not cheap but you get what you pay for literally. Ive had many many pc's before and theres very good ones but not as close as the performance and the support a Macbook has. Great investment!
4|The Mac Pro is the same as what I have used in the past. Nothing great on this new one
5|I love my new Macbook Pro. I know they may cost more than some computers, but they much more intuitive than any PC I have ever owned. Get a Mac.
4|Grandchildren are teaching me how to use my new MacBook.
5|great customer service with good advice on choosing my new computer
5|Great product and user friendly... Performance is as good as advertised
5|It is one the most user friendly laptop i have ever used. It gives an entirely new experience of technology. Never slows down on any project.
4|Great product and I am very happy with my purchase.
5|if you have a student in school, this is the apple laptop to get with out breaking the bank too much. Strongly recommend this!
5|I was so happy with my purchase. I would recommend to anyone.
5|I owned many Window's based computers over the last 15 year and this was the first Apple laptop I have ever purchased and I will tell you it was worth the money. The reliability, free OS upgrades, and the speed is sick. You have to buy one.
5|I really like this laptop because even though it is the older model it has the cd drive so you get a lot more with it.
5|Absolutely loved this purchase! Perfect for college students primarily working on research and writing.
3|This laptop is pretty heavy compared to the one runs on solid state drive. The battery life is not very good either.
4|Great for school! Very easy to set up and sync with your other Apple devices
5|These are our Workhorses. We have dozens. They travel well although they are almost 7 pounds.. So flying with a number of them like we do often internationally, is sometimes an issue. PC Laptops are almost all lighter. The new pros with the SSD's are half the weight.., But no built in ethernet.. A needless hassle. We get about 3 years of daily rough use out them before a Thunderbolt or firewire port or ethernet port fails... at that point we kick them down as personal laptops and replace..
1|My wife is set on Apple laptops even though 2 previous ones had hard drive crashes. This was a new one she used for less than 3 months and this one crashed already!!!!
5|This Mac book Pro is one of the best computers out there
5|Love this computer so much purchased another one!!
4|This computer is light weight and fast. My daughter loves using it and is well pleased with it.
4|Overpriced like any Apple device but makes it easy for a teen.
5|Love the computer! Employees were so helpful! Great
5|This computer suits all of my needs. It is also able to accept RAM and HDD and SSD upgrades which puts it on par with the higher priced newer models. Mine is zippy as zippy can be. The built in optical drive is a must for when I am traveling as well.
5|My first Apple computer! It is perfect! I can hold it with one hand! Beautiful screen! Backlit keyboard,superdrive, 500 gb storage. Applecare makes it a dream machine! I bought a beautiful blue cover with matching keyboard cover. The apple logo shows thru! Easy to learn!
5|I had to buy another laptop because I spilled coffee on the last one. But I knew I wanted another MacBook Pro without thinking about it.
5|It is just awesome and I love it! It has so many great features!
4|What can I say purchased the product because it's what is in demand for the type of work I do.
4|I just love the MacBook Pro. Great product, easy to use.
5|This is a great laptop, it's fast and very easy to use for any age range
2|It's really slow, and I don't think the parallels was installed properly, because I can't get it to work.
5|The laptop is great and easy to use. The laptop was purchased at a great price.
5|I enjoy the usability of apple products. Not to mention being able sync all my apple products together is pretty awesome.
5|This is a MacBook Pro. There isn't much to add to my review than that. Solid, reliable product. I am glad I got this one before they remove CD DVD read writers.
5|Love my MacBook! So glad I finally got it. Great price too!
5|A. MacbookPro is so easy to understand and learn to use!
5|I am in love with my first Apple product and its latest IOS
5|Great laptop, Apple never fails Will recommend this to a friend.
5|Purchased this for my grandson. He loves it for his school work.
4|This is my first MacBook Pro so I'm still learning how to use it and so far I like it and I'm finding it easy to navigate and use.
5|This is the first Mac I ever purchased. It took me a day to get used to using a Mac versus a PC, and once I did, I could never see myself going back to a PC. This computer is easy-breezy to use, I love how easily it synced with my iPhone 6. Definitely the best laptop I have ever owned.
5|Quick, powerful, compatible with all of my accessories without effort. I love my MacBook Pro. Lightweight, nice-looking design.
5|Excellent choice; extremely friendly and east to use
4|Computer works just as expected, but relatively small compared to all of the other computers out there.
5|I like the fact that there are less hackers trying to wreck my system
5|I like this laptop I've had other laptop but this one is by far my favorite
5|It's an Apple product what more can I say. They are pricey but worth it.
3|This was my very first computer. I was hesitant to spend the money on a mac rather than a PC but glad I did it. Customer service sucked though.
5|Once you get an Apple, you'll never go back to another brand of computing. This is as good or better than then the two Apples I've had (over at least a 10 year period) that aged out much later than other laptops we've had in the family.
3|The computer is perfect to my daughter.She is 12 years that's good for her.
5|I love the MacBook Pro it is fast and very easy to use!
5|This laptop is worth every penny and I have had for over a year now. It is versatile and the keyboard has a great feel. Battery life is pretty good. This macbook pro is definitely better than any of my previous laptops. OS is also great, does not crash.
5|Great laptop to pair with my iPhone and Apple TV. Really like having the disc drive too, that was a must have for me.
5|I have never wanted to spend the extra money to purchase a Mac. After all the frustrations with Windows I decided it was time. And best move ever. I have never looked back. It was an adjustment period learning the new way around. But now that I have figured things out I will never leave the Mac world love this little baby
5|great laptop for the price paid, perfect for college
5|Love it! Best computer around, has a very long battery life and best screen picture ever!
4|We had an original MacBook that started to get weary so we simply had to upgrade for the speed and apps, etc. The computer is fine.
4|The lap top is for the price It is not too heavy for my daughter to carry in her backpack.
5|I remember the days I used to buy computers and laptops with Window on it... Oh man what a waste of money and everything. Always getting viruses and/or slow to a point that I quit using em and never will again. Apple makes the best and since I switched to Apple a few years ago I never had to fix or replace any of their devices. This one is my 2nd MacBook Pro, one for business and the other one for pleasure. Buy it and you won't regret it.
5|After thinking about buying an IPad with more memory, it was quite obvious that the cost per GIG of RAM was much cheaper buying this Macbook Pro! In addition, I got a laptop with more capability as well. I chose this over the the Air equivialnt because the hard drive is 512 GIGS and the Air was only 120 GIGs for the same price. I also have a built in DVD-CD drive which with Air I would have had to buy an additional external drive. The screen resolution is very close to the Retina screen and I added four more GIGS of RAM and it is quite fast. Finally, I bought a 1 Terabite external drive from Wester Digital and the Apple Magic mouse. All in all a very happy customer I am.
5|Purchased for my daughter she loves it. That means I love it.
5|This is will be the third MacBook Pro in our household, absolutely love them. Apple has best software hands down always updating with innovative features is is very intuitive. If you want a traditional style laptop with disc he and optical drive don't
5|This is my first Mac computer and I absolutely love it. This laptop is really easy to use, works fast and efficiently. I would definitely recommend this laptop to anyone looking for a new computer.
3|I was expecting more from the laptop, because of the price. It didn't quite meet all my expectations.
4|Needed for student in graphic design. Works much faster and easier to understand.
4|very friendly customer service, great product, works well and very happy with purchase
5|I have always had HP PCs. This is my first Apple and I am not disappointed!!
5|Basically i only need imovie for my videos. But now i enjoy every apps with it.
5|We decided to go with the 2012 model macbook pro to ensure compatibility for Adobe CS 5.5, while still getting latest OS. Great for the price.
5|Apple always puts out the best. Great laptop at a great price.
5|I wasn't sure if I should go with the Air or the Pro, but having help to make the decision to go with the Pro was very helpful! Now whenever I need to access a CD, I already have the CD driver and don't have to go out and buy a separate one. I also saved money by not going with the Retina display, but I think just the regular display is just as good!
5|Easy to use. Great deal with sale price and college student coupon. Very dependable. Genius Bar at Apple Store is always great with help if needed.
5|I bought this laptop as a replacement for my 2009 MacBook. Compared to my old laptop, this new one is lighter with a sharper picture. The light-up keyboard is a nice feature as well. Like all other MacBooks, it was easy to set up and use.
4|So far, I love my MacBook Pro. Its fast and efficient but as it is my first MAC laptop, there is a learning curve. I have to get used to certain functions being different from PC to MAC. It is definitely a great product.
5|This the first time i use Apple - MacBook Pro - Intel Core i5 - 13.3 Display - 4GB Memory - 500GB Hard Drive - Silver
4|My son loves his Mac laptop. Personally I would have preferred a pc touchscreen purchase. Limited Mac system crashes was the main reason for the purchase.
4|The staff was very helpful and helped me decide on the best machine for my needs.
4|Great for pictures and videos, my main reason for purchasing!
4|Purchased for the kids as they use Apple in school.
5|Great laptop it's very user friendly and I love it.
5|Great pc for anyone at any age. Explanatory guides
5|Fast, reliable, light and full of features. Definitely would recommend it.
5|Would definitely recommend for any other full-time students. This was my first mac so it took some getting used to but I love it now.
5|It's a very good mac and it's valuable. I like it a lot~
5|I love that you can take it anywhere you need! I would recommend it to anyone!
5|Even though it is a little pricey, it is worth it Good performance, good speed, light, durable, reliable.
5|The laptop has good configuration and is worth the money
4|it's incredibly slow when running Word/Excel/PPT.. however, it's an Apple.
5|Quick checkout. Clerk was very helpful and friendly.
5|My daughter was starting college &amp;amp; needed a new, lighter laptop to replace her bulky old one. This has the same processing spec's &amp;amp; memory but is much easier to carry around campus.
5|I was torn between this one and the one with the special display. I'm glad I went with this one. This is a great tablet!
5|I havent had any problems but it will take a little while to get used to if you have always had a pc like me.
5|This is my first Mac and I'm loving it so far! It is taking me a while to get used to but I know that it is going to suit my needs.
5|I never had a Mac so I decided to get one to see what was the big hype about it. Now I really love it run smoother something to it doesn't lag etc. I won't be going back to any PC
5|This Mac mini works well with my presentation software and my projector. It is compact so I can carry it with and use it at all my locations wear a presentation is needed.
5|This is the second one I have bought. It has worked perfectly. No problems. The laptop is fast and dependable.
5|Even though this is an older model Mac, it's the last model you can upgrade the hard drive on. So if it ever gets slow or I fill it up, I can upgrade it.
4|I love MacBooks and this one is not any different. It's a great computer and I love that it is the same OS as my phone (iPhone).
5|Just the right size for a college student. She likes the Macbook Pro much better than a PC and is very happy with her choice.
5|I will never buy a windows based computer ever again. Syncs with all my other apple products. Found wifi and wireless printer right out of the box!!
4|I find the Applet tablet very reliable and easy to Navigate
5|MacBooks are perfect computers to use for college, very reliable.
5|Great computer.I love my new MacBook Pro!!! I always used PC and it made me a little nervous to switch to an Apple laptop. I am so glad I finally made the switch. It is the best purchase I have made.
3|I'm a pc user and this is my first mac...so there is an annoying learning curve. The processing is slower than a pc for the same price, but i guess i fell for the mystique of owning a mac and trying to sinc it with my iPad and iPhone has been good. Down side to that is you do not get additional iCloud space, and are forced to pay a MONTHLY fee?!?! for more. Overall, it works well (cause its new) but not worth the hype.
5|works well and looks clean. I have not had any issues.
5|She uses it all the time. She loves it! I'm satisfied with this purchase
5|The staff seem to love their new computers and others can't wait to get theirs next year!
5|I love my new MacBook Pro. It was easy to set up and does everything I need it to do.
5|Great laptop. Very user friendly. I use this device every day for work and personal use.
5|Does everything I need. Was affordable to upgrade ram and hard drive, this is the last model you can do that yourself easily.
5|Good value. Nice machine. Highly recommend. Really like the Apple products.
5|This Macbook Pro has all of the necessary programs to utilize for personal, educational and small business needs. It was also easy to transfer all data from my previous old Macbook to the new Macbook. Looking forward to many more years of enjoying this product.
5|This is my first Mac PC and its very nice and thin
4|Easy to use esp. if u are familiar with Apple products..
5|A very smart purchase I made. Apple products are superb
5|I bought this laptop because I am an adult returning to school, I'm doing an online bachelor degree! If I'm not reading, I'm doing research on my new laptop! This was a great investment.
5|Very dependable. Love how easy to operate. My son loves how he can connect his iTunes.
5|Bought this for my daughter when her Asus pc died. She loves it!! I am a PC guy. Both my kids have Apple's and they love them. My son's Apple notebook just had a recall and he basically got a whole new computer. They replaced the motherboard and the graphics card for free. No S&amp;amp;H I am impressed.
5|This is my first Mac ever and it is awesome. It's not heavy, it is fast, and it can hold a lot of storage. Perfect for a student!
5|If you're looking for a basic laptop with lots of memory and don't need to be too fancy then get this, it really is great.
5|Always wanted a Mac . Very happy with this laptop!
5|My granddaughter came to visit over the summer. She wanted a laptop like her mom and dads. Nana of course ordered her one.
5|I bought this laptop for college and it is perfect! If you're going to use the laptop for editing and etc.. Then i recommend getting the higher specs mac book.
5|Excellent product. Apple consistently has some of the best products on the market.
5|This was for my daughter going away to college and gives her everything she wanted
5|This computer was really easy to figure out how to use and performs better than any computer I have ever owned!
4|Buy if want lots of hard drive memory and DVD player. A little disappointed in the speed however.
3|Computer is not as user friendly as previous models owned. It is also very slow at start-up.
5|This Macbook is amazing. My wife loves it and really appreciates the great battery life. Definitely worth the premium you pay for owning an Apple product.
5|Got for my son for college. Its has been a great attribute to help him with studies and projects and reports. He loves it!!!
5|We are an Apple household so it does not take much to impress but I love how it integrated smoothly with all our other products and how compact it is
4|This was a replacement for my last computer, and I was lucky it was in stock
5|this is an excellent computer, wonderfully functional and reliable!
5|Its a great Laptop, very good model. The laptop specs is correct and will definitely recommend my friend to buy it. Nice price with a deal on Labor day!!!
5|it is a very excellent computer for the money, easy to get started. i will recommend this computer to anyone.
4|my first Mac. been a PC man. still learning. like all the functions. compatibility is great.
4|Good computer. I don't buy into the Apple hype, but this is still a great computer.
5|Surely can't go wrong with purchasing this product.
5|Excellent product for all of my needs. It is very easy to work with.
5|Originally was going to replace my old Windows laptop, but looking at this one along with having I-phones and I-pads it seemed like a no brainer. Have had MacBook Pro about a month and love it. Set-up was easy and after a little glitch to transfer E-mail from Outlook, everything is fine. Apple support was very helpful.
5|Apple has always been my go-to for electronics. It's just worth it in a long run.
5|Easy to navigate and use. So many cool apps available and a lot of tools. I used to have a Microsoft OS on a Dell and this laptop beats that old laptop in every category. Great battery life!!
5|Daughter's school requirements needed an Apple compatible computer for course work. The MacBook costs more than some PCs, but met the requirements needed.
4|This computer is top quality in my opinion. It is light, easy to use and visually appealing.
4|first mac I have own didn:t really know what to expect always use windows. Mac did not disappointed me,once I got the jist of the the operating system I could not be happier.
5|Our old computer, a Toshiba bit the dust. We Love the IMac Pro! Great price! Everything we have is Apple.
4|I can't say anything bad about Apple. I didn't get the newest and best computer because this one was the right price for the capacity. The only thing I am noticing is a very fast battery life, which is why I took it down to four stars.
5|I'm obsessed with the laptop so perfect for college
5|I am a art student and I love this computer. I am able to complete many projects with no problem.
5|this macbook is great, I've always had PCs before, but I'm really happy with this mac. It has embedded applications that are equivalent to Word ("Pages") and Excel ("Numbers") which was great so I didn't have to buy a new computer plus $$ software.
5|So much better than a windows computer or a chrome book. I turned it on and felt at home. Love the larger hard drive space.
5|What a great device and beautiful screen so glad I purchase What a great device and beautiful screen so glad I picked and purchased this laptop
4|it would be great to see better discounts on Apple merchandise.
4|This product is just what I wanted to have. It works well.,
5|Very happy with my purchase My second MacBook This one is for my daughter in college
5|My 2nd Macpro, faster and better, with i5 and 500gb storage.
5|It is for my grandson and he loves it. Hopefully it will get as much use for school work as it does for Netflix!
2|A lot heavier than I thought it would be. Hindsight being 20/20...would have preferred a Macbook air. Being a full-time student &amp;amp; carrying this around daily is becoming a hassle. If I could exchange it I totally would.
5|I have had my computer for about 3 months now and i absolutely love it! I don't think i'll ever go back to windows! At first i was nervous that this computer wouldn't be able to handle coding capabilities, but it is so much easier to do on my macbook than it was on any other computer.
4|Although somewhat heavier than the Macbook Air, this laptop still has a CD/DVD player. This feature was needed for the type of studies our son is pursuing. Wanted the ease and continuity of Apple products with those already owned.
5|Love the computer/laptop. The performance, graphics and speed are outstanding. Kudos to Apple for making such a wonderful computer. Excellent product that I hope to have for 10+ years.
5|Everything I thought it would be, and more. Couldn't be happier with my MacBook... Unless it was cheaper... But that's wishful thinking.
5|I e been a mac for years, and this is the newest addition to the family. Love it
5|This is my first Apple computer and it is by far the best purchase I made!
5|This mac is great for students. I bought one for my sophmore daughter and she loved it. It has bigger storage than most of the other mac and is the perfect size for her. It not as thick as the other ones so it wont break or get bent easily.
4|The laptop is lightweight and easy to link up with my other apple products. I also like the accessories that you can purchase to upgrade and add to the laptop like the Apple TV hook up.
5|I've always been a PC guy but I decided to try my first MAC and I love it.
5|I purchased this laptop for my college student and she has had no problems with it.
4|I had a MacBook for almost 7 years and decided to upgrade to a pro. Super fast, awesome graphics, Mac never disappoints.
5|Great PC with no issues. My son enjoying his new MAC.
5|All my apple products working together. Makes life easier and can work on all my projects on different devices.
5|The design and power. Not to mention reliability. This is the 7th Mac being added to the family!
5|Great for school work!!! Use it everyday for school, really light weight compared to my Vaio.
4|I bought it because my wife has one and is very happy with one, we have several apple products, so the brand loyalty is already there. I liked the fact that you can still insert DVD's because I watch a lot of trainings and videos, I just wish the speakers would be a bit more powerful.
5|the laptop is very easy to use and is very fast. was what I was used to running in school.
4|Love, love this MacBook pro, long battery life between charging. And was also able to get it for a great price. Will definitely get a lot of use out of it for school.
5|I bought a Macbook Pro because of Windows 8 as well as the low quality of hardware that comprises most laptop PCs. This machine replaced a Windows 7 laptop that suffered major hardware failure after only 23 months of gentle use. Fortunately I had a full replacement warranty on this unit. Windows 8 is virtually unusable for my purposes, as are tablet computers. I need a full laptop with a real keyboard, built-in CD/DVD ROM reader/writer, USB ports, an OS that supports my applications, etc. After seeing how virtually every laptop PC was loaded with Windows 8, and was very cheaply built, I was thoroughly disgusted and considered other options. Most Mac laptops I have seen have been in service for a number of years and are still running strong. That, and the features of the new Macbooks, convinced me to pay the extra money and go with an Apple. I also use LINUX, and by using VirtualBox or Parallels software, I can run LINUX in a virtual machine within the Mac OS. This has proven to be the best of both worlds. it should also be mentioned that if one needs Windows 7 for certain tasks, Windows 7 can be run in a virtual machine using Parallels, just as was done with LINUX. By going with an Apple Macbook and using virtual machines for certain applications not normally supported in Mac OS, I have avoided the pitfalls of a regular laptop PC. Pros: The machine is light in weight, thin, yet feels solid when you handle it. The keyboard has a very good tactile feel; the keys don't make that cheap plastic "scrunch" that many PCs do. Visually, the machine has a very neat, clean appearance and features a beautiful, bright, sharp display. I like the fact the keyboard keys light up so they can be seen int he dark.
4|My items are excellent I recommend them to my friends.
5|OLDER MODEL OF MACBOOK PRO BUT UPGRADE FOR ME. HAD OLD MACBOOK AIR THAT WAS FULL. THIS IS A LITTLE SLOW BOOTING UP AND DOES NOT HAVE THE RETINA DISPLAY.
5|If you are looking to expand memory on your MacBook this is the computer for you
5|Great product. I recommend it to my friends and family, this is my second one. Apple always has excellent quality.
5|Bought it for my daughter who is a college student. She has only had the Macbook pro for a few weeks but it seems to have everything she needs for school.
5|I am very pleased with my purchased has worked awesome
5|I enjoyed using the mac since i use the iphone and i can call and text while on mac it made it easy to pick and send message while performing office task.the speed of operation is manificent compared to my former hp laptop
5|This is a great piece of hardware for any college student. The display is vibrant and easy to see.
5|My decision in buying this Mac book was based on my previous experience with Mac books and also the cost / benefit... Have in mind that all new Mac book models do not allow you to increase RAM memory... This was the last model to have this possibility, what is a differential! :-) Additionaly, you can change the HD to SSD, what will make the notebook an incredible piece of hardware.... So, buy it! :-)
5|I LOVE THIS MACBOOK PRO LAPTOP, BEST LAPTOP I HAVE HAD SO FAR. I USE IT FOR SCHOOL MOSTLY BUT GREAT FOR EDITING PHOTOS
5|I use my MacBook all the time. It has never lost its speed. Simply amazing!!!!
5|Bought this for my brother and he is loving it, even thought it's not the latest model, we upgraded de memory to 16GB and its working more than fine
5|My college bound daughter loves this. Great features.
5|Even though this is an older version of MacBook Pro, it is still great for the price. Although you sacrifice the retina resolution found on newer models, you gain much more memory and a faster processor than the cheapest MacBook Pro with retina.
5|This macbook pro gives you everything you need to build a workhorse of a laptop. You can customize yourself when the majority of MacBooks are becoming bricks you can't do anything with.
5|Purchased for video editing works excellent. Apple
5|Excellent choice for new college student. Lightweight, works well.
5|I had been Pining over a computer for some time now and was going to purchase one refurbished. I knew I wanted and Apple Laptop just the means of getting and deciding what I wanted. Was going to go for a more updated computer but chose this one for the disc drive and ease and mobility. Excellent computer and very please with my purchase. Thank you.
5|nothing beats an apple computer. it is an investment for a lifetime.
5|Got her a Mac Air that got her through high school. This one will get her through college.
5|Great for college business student, Quick service and delivery.
5|I purchased higher speed chip and 8 GB RAM. This MAC is super fast and the display is unbelievably sharp. Worth every penny! I use Numbers alot on icloud and can work seamlessly with my spreadsheets between this MAC and mi ipad. The OSX Yosemite is the best. Windows users: if you switch to Apple you will NEVER regret it. No more stupid Windows glitches and update problems. You will be glad you bought an Apple MAC. ENJOY !!!
5|I love the simplicity of it and how fast the computer is.
5|This is a great laptop for college students. It is a great size for portability, and the features have everything you need to do your work.
5|I use my computer for school and love it! The battery life is just what I need. It's not too big or too small. No complaints by far.
5|This was my first Apple computer purchase. Having owned iPhones and Apple TV already, this device seamlessly integrated into my other devices and they all work well together. The speed and user friendly OS of this MacBook is absolutely incredible. You can feel where the money went when you use this.
5|I use my mac book everyday and love how compatable it is with my iPhone.
5|Windows still lags behind apple. Mac os is easier to use
5|happy with the purchase. I went from a PC to a mac
5|Totally worth the price !! Perfect for my high school child . She loves it !
5|Love this Mac. It was a great gift for my graduation.
5|The item works very well and I am very please with its performance.
5|Bought this to take with me for camera classes. It's been great!
5|I bought this for my son who is starting college. He's loving it so far and I feel good knowing it's an Apple product.
5|I love this laptop. The battery life last for a long time. It is not heavy to take to class. It has a CD rom; the newer version don't.
5|this MacBook is the best of choice that I did. I'm so glad I bought Apple brand. I'm loving it
5|Best computer ever I wouldnt have anything else have have 5 plus pros and love them all
4|It was a little big for my liking however I am use to the siZe of the phone and I love it
5|I've been a Mac user for over a decade and recently had to switch to a PC for a graduate business program. When my Lenovo broke, I was debating the switch back to Mac but was concerned with the functionality of Office Suite (especially Excel). Lo and behold! With the first update in 5 years, Excel finally operates and looks essentially as it does on a Windows platform. Now I have all of the intuitive functionality of a MacBook Pro with the usefulness of Office Suite in a sturdier, sleeker, more reliable machine.
5|Good screen, design, color and lighter. The unit have a soft touch keyboard. Excellent equipment.
5|Perfect for new college student. Little brother fights to borrow it!
5|I've asked around about the best computer to get and all responses were to get the apple mac book pro. I got it and love it. Once you get a mac, you will always want a mac.
5|The MacBook Pro is very easy to use and navigate. The price was very reasonable for all it does.
5|I'm 62 and do not like change so I was hesitant about switching to a Mac. I have found it very user friendly!
4|Main reason to by this laptop a fire wire port. Plus I bought it when it was on sale (close to $ 200 off). It is fast, quite roomy HD and 2 GB of memory. A disadvantage I found was that Apple does not support burning movies anymore.
4|It's so good I had to buy another one for traveling
5|Love it always had a Mac but first laptop would recommend
5|Dependability, durability, and connect ability - nothing beats a MacBook Pro.
4|It is a good product, and fast shipping !!!!!!!!!!!
5|It is very nice, It works great no problems at all it's everything I expected.
5|I purchased this for my son who is entering a university with an intense music program where Macs are preferred. He says it will suit all his needs.
5|This is a 2012 MacBook Pro that still performs amazingly well after three years. It comes loaded with the latest OS from Apple and will run all the current apps available today. An outstanding deal at $999.
5|Works great, as expected. A bit heavy, but still has great functions.
5|First time having an Apple. Love it. Had wanted one before but was not in my budget at the time.
5|Beginner instructions were very useful. Laptop is very easy to use.
5|I purchased this computer after reading some customer reviews and comparing it to the new line of MacBook pros. It is definitely worth the $1100 sticker. Every program I have put on it runs smoothly and with a HDD of 500gb, I have plenty of space to save without having to consolidate for space.
5|We have had a lot of success with this new computer. It runs well.
5|The MacBook is an awesome product it puts windows to Shame
5|Dip your toe in the apple water with this well equipped starter. Not short on space or speed it is the perfect way to start.
5|I love the my new MacBook ! Super fast and easy to use.
5|I bought the mid-2012 Mac-Pro instead of the new retina version because of the ability to upgrade the RAM to Crucial 16GB total as well as swapping out the 500GB HDD for a 1TB SSD. I don't use my laptop outside so the screen resolution is fine for me in the house. Super fast and reliable...what you can always expect from an Apple product.
5|I have always loved Macs. totally worth every penny.
4|First macbook i ever purchased So far really like it May upgrade soon
5|Mac's are great, user friendly, basically problem free. My sales person was very attentive and made sure I received everything I needed.
5|Fit perfectly into my budget and supply's all my needs for school. It's amazing and fast and I'm very satisfied
5|It is a Very good Macbook for everyday use. The screen is not best, but good for the price.
4|Haven't really explored its capabilities yet, but disappointed in login speed.
4|Computer runs very well and ergonomic to hold. Definitely would recommend
5|This is my fifth Apple laptop; I've been using Macs for the past 15 years; love 'em. This MacBook Pro doesn't disappoint.
5|As with any Mac, the bottom line is that it just works.
5|Mc pro is an excellent product. You won't find any complaints about it you will love it
4|I deliberated between getting this 2012/2013 computer and the more recent ones. The difference is the GB is 500 on this and the new macbook closest in price has 128GB. Yes, you can add to that, but it costs 400 bucks to do so after the fact thus it is cheaper to buy the newer one with more GB rather than installing more later. By the time you add more GB then the price difference between a newer comparable model to this one is rather a wide spread. I hope my gamble pays off.
5|Love this MacBook Pro. It's everything I hoped it would be for my job.
5|I love all the products I bought, they work really well for a college student.
4|I love the laptop cause it's something everyone buys. Overall live it just bad battery and I'm assuming that's just an apple thing
5|Superb computer. Love the virus free protection. Great speed
5|I bought this item for my daughter to use with her photography hobby and for high school classes and she loves it
5|Apple never fails me! I bought this Macbook for my daughter who is home schooled as I love my 17" Macbook Pro. My daughter LOVES her Macbook! Its fast, has all the features she needs and she won't outgrow it. The screen is clear and bright and features everything one might need.
5|Apple is simply the best when it comes to a quality laptop. Lots of other brands have the bells and whistles but don't come close to the superior quality of a Mac.
5|The only laptop we will ever buy! Love it! Great buy
5|First let me say I am a PC well until my teens went apple and little by little, the iPod, the iPhone the iPad my PC home was taken over. When it came time to replace my laptop I opted for apple to keep up the communication with the other items. OMG why did I not own an apple before!? It is lightweight, sleek, FAST intuitive easy to operate right out of the box. No hesitation to recommend
4|If you love Macs go with the pro. If you can afford to buy the newer model, I would recommend it. I had circuit board problems with this one and had to have it sent off to Apple to be repaired.
5|Very portable to bring everywhere you go. I bring it to school and home all the time.
5|I bought this for my son that is a college freshman and so far he loves it. I was thrilled to get it on sale however these are not cheap by any means but well worth the money! We are loyal Apple owners!
5|We are really loving this new laptop. It's the first time we've bought a Mac but we are transitioning really well.
4|Great laptop...Apple changed design so newer ones are not upgradable...ie: more memory or hard drive
5|Highly-rated recommend this product. Daughter loves this will not buy any other computer
5|The MacBook exceed my expectations, easy to use and linked with my iPhone and iPad flawlessly.
5|i love apple products and my new mac book pro does not disappoint. Integrate your life with your iPhone and Mac book now!
5|I love MacBooks. No further explanation needed. Great laptop!
5|While an older unit, this is the last model Macbook that isn't hard to open up and upgrade yourself. A steal with a great coupon!
5|I was apprehensive about getting an apple because of the hype but this laptop is a solid computer and a great desktop replacement computer. Beware that you cannot upgrade the memory on these computers. They come as is unless you purchase from the apple website or store.
5|Upgraded from a desktop pc to a MacBook pro laptop. Love that this one has a cd drive. Very familiar since I've been using an Air at work.
5|Apple products, including MacBooks have the ability to sync and communicate between each other. This is my huge draw and switch, on top of superior hardware and software and a much better interface than windows.
5|This was great purchase , would recommend it to anyone.
5|Purchased MacBook for returning to school. Portable and easy to use. Purchased office for Mac with this and the two pair up seemlessly. Only drawback is the 4gb of RAM but it is easily upgraded to 8.
5|First time buying a mac pro, one of the greatest choices Ive made. Great laptop, for those who prefer windows, well Ive owned windows CPU's and laptops since I was 15, Im 29, first time owning a mac pro, this laptop is a whole lot better then the windows CPU's and Laptops.
5|I like this mac book, only because is smaller than the old HP I had, so far I had been trying to learn how to use all the features, since I never used a Mac system before but I think I didn't have to spend so much money in a laptop like this one, because so far is been just like other more affordable ones I had in the past, I guess it depends what are you going to be using the computer for , but in my case, I just wasted extra money and I got more inclined in the market pressure about, Everybody wants to have Apple products now, so yes Apple, I will give an excellent grading in marketing your products and creating an incredible demand for your name.
5|Love my Mac book pro would definitely reccomend this to anyone looking for a new laptop.
4|This was my first mac and i love it! It was everything i was told i was and more. Highest recommendation.
5|I bought this Laptop for my daughter now that she is in College and I know that it is a bit pricey but I consider this an Investment on her education!
5|I always loved apple products that's why I decided to buy the Mac.
5|Elegant design, super light and easy to handle. Dream to have a laptop like this . The graphics are up to the mark
5|Great laptop for the Apple product lovers. Excellent display quality and performance. I love this pc and would highly recommend.
5|This makes my second one. I Love Love my Mac..Laptop!
5|My mac book is going to be a great asset for my college career!
5|My daughter loves this laptop. Her school is an apple school so it helps her complete assignments easily.
5|I like this computer because it is very nice, and has all the things I need - a big enough HD, a DVD burner, and its got upgradeable memory. Other macs don't have either a DVD or memory upgrades (they have memory soldered on the main board). "Cloud" storage is overblown.
5|best place to purchase on price and helpful advice
4|The Mac is a great computer and I just love that it syncs with all my other apple products. Its just a little heavy and all the accessories are a bit pricey.
5|I love this laptop. Purchased a MacBook Pro 5 years ago and it worked great. I just wanted to purchase a new one bec I just wanted an upgrade.
4|Good job and has what is needed can be a little bit slow completing tasks
5|Best laptop to buy for the kid going to school. Apple is the best.
5|I love this computer it has great features and it's worth the price.
5|If you need a computer for work or home, the macbook your best option
4|This MacBook Pro is easy to use and has the right size.
5|It is a good computer for everyday use with a DVD drive.
4|I love all of the features, but sometimes the computer freezes for a couple seconds from trying to do too much at once.
5|I absolutely love my MacBook Pro!! Before I had a pc and had so many problems with them, but now that I have the MacBook Pro I don't have anymore problems. Definitely worth the price.
4|I purchased this laptop as a present for mothers day. My mom absolutely loves its lightweight and ability. Now shes able to sync everything from her office, to her home, to on the road (the whole reason she wanted the mac). The only thing shes complained about is not being able to sync all her contacts from her devices to the mac. I'm sure she'll talk to someone and figure it out tho.
4|I have purchased PCs before and not one of them has withstood time like my MacBook Pro. The battery life is amazing while going from class to class. The start up speed is great! And I have plenty of room to keep papers and assignments without overusing memory and slowing down the computer.
5|We spent the greater part of my summer looking for the perfect computer for me that is not only durable, but also easy to operate. I'm so glad I invested my money into this laptop, but I would recommend getting insurance because accidents do happen.
5|Our MacBook Pro is the right size and so easy to use. My childen love it!
5|This is my first Mac and I love it. Great display, easy to use. Highly recommended.
5|I love this computer! It is easy to use, not a great learning curve. Easy to set up and use. I bought it for college and so far it is working great! I like it because it has several USB ports, a port for my scan disk for photos and a disk drive. All things I need and want and didn't have to buy separately for the other computer I was comparing this one to.
4|Everything is excellent with my laptop except the battery doesn't fully charge to 100%, and the battery last about 6 hours.
5|Bought this Mac for my college student and she loved it from the moment she turned it on. easy to use and a great deal.
5|Perfect laptop for a college freshman is fast and has lots of memory
4|Happy with this purchase. Bought it for my daughter for college.
4|This macbook pro exceeded my expectations and I am very happy with this product.
5|Love this computer. Very fast and totally worth the price. You get what you pay for!!
5|Expensive but a great laptop. Sales associate was very helpful.
5|I love this computer. makes everything else seem lame in comparison. reliability is unparalleled by any other computer!
5|This computer offers the latest in memory and connectivity which allows a college student to do all that needs to be done. I love the speed, dependability and compatibility to other products. Love it.
5|What more need be said- it's a Mac! I finally tired (again) of dealing with a PC with dementia and bought this Mac Pro. everything works smoothly, the design is elegant, and the ideas built into how to make it work better, are simply delightful. I chose to keep the HDD for it's 500 GB capacity over the more expensive , newer flash drive options, which were only 128-256 GB, and, for my money, there is nothing available that can top this laptop model. I appreciate having a disc drive (only available on this 13" Macbook Pro), as carrying an extra piece of equipment to listen to my CD's and watch my DVD collection seemed pointless. The 13" screen is plenty big (I thought I would miss my prior 15", but haven't. Only fault is the glossy screen- my last Mac had the matte screen and was practically glare free. The glossy screen is probably brighter and has higher resolution, but is difficult to see with daylight or overhead lights around because of the glare. Nonetheless, I love this instrument, it works great!
5|This is very easy to use. Holds its value very well and very durable.
5|Once I got this, I'm never going to go back to a regular laptop again.
5|First MacBook Pro ever own and I love it! Recommended for any student!
4|this is the second one that i have purchased. first college student would not use any other kind of lap top. second is still getting use to apple layout but is on computer constantly.
5|It is much faster than my last laptop And it seems easier to use.
5|Purchased for our college freshman. It's perfect and at a great value. We'll be purchasing a second one for our Junior in college, who purchased a touch screen HP...even with Norton, a constant virus issue on campus.
5|Excellent product from Apple! I'm a high school teacher and this machine is exactly what I need to help me be more efficient with work at home. Very fast. Very easy to use.
5|Does everything I need for everyday use (emails, social media, etc)
5|I've always wanted to go back to a mac Book and now I have and wonder why it took so long!
5|This laptop was a steal! The amount of storage was awesome. It doesn't have an HDMI port. But the clarity of the screen is great. This is my first Macbook/Mac product and setting up was easy.
5|I love this laptop! It's so much better than my other one, and it's lasting a lot longer. This would be great for any college student.
5|this is the one when you are seeking quality, you will never regret.
5|I like it very much, I can five windows open and it works fast.
5|Great purchase. Should have purchased sooner. This is perfect for work.
5|I love my computer! My husband bought it for me for school and bought me everything else I would need. It's perfect for personal use and school use. I actually stopped using my iPhone and iPad because I find it easier to use my Mac for everything! Love my MacBook Pro!
5|Love this computer. its perfect in every way. The size is nice. it's a little confusing switching from windows to mac but once you figure it out it's worth it.
5|Computer is exactly as described, easy to use great for anything especially for school size of laptop is perfect to carry around
5|This computer has been amazing. I use it every single day and it accommodates perfectly to my college life.
5|Best laptop I have ever owned. Super fast, the battery life is a bit weak but I charge it every night before bed so no issue for me about the same as a standard laptop. Screen quality is outstanding and the speed of the unit is excellent.
5|I was very pleased with the T.V. quality and the Price!!!
5|Bought this computer for my daughter. It's a great computer for a great price with the student discount. Easy to setup.
4|Purchased this for my daughter was easy to setup right out of the box
5|This was an upgrade from my pc, and i really like it. Slight learning curve as this was my first macbook. But you pick things up very quickly.
5|Great laptop to use for school. I bought this for my daughter to use in college, and couldn't be happier. You can add memory and a SSD to this laptop for a significant performance boost as well. Very happy with purchase.
5|Purchased for student. Computer has clear image and performs well. Would recommend. No problems
4|Considering how much I paid for this, I guess I just expected it to be perfect. The battery life is not at all what I read about, and every once in a while everything will process really slowly for no apparent reason. Other than that, I mean it's Apple so obviously it's well made. Display is great, love the backlit keyboard, and it charges fast. Hopefully it'll last me through college.
5|Everything I was expecting and much more. Definitely recommend this product
5|My daughter saved her own money all year long to purchase this computer for school. Great deal and a great product!
5|Great product. Especially for those who love music and love go make music. Apple software makes everything so easy to handle.
5|My daughter set this computer up in 10 minutes including iTunes, cloud, and other services. I expect that it will be extremely reliable, as I have the same model from 5 years ago and it still works great.
5|Loving this MacBook Pro. I'm so glad &amp;amp; happy that I decided on an apple product. It's all that I need in a laptop
5|Apple Macbook Pro - received as ordered on time. Great product and great service.
5|A Mac is the only laptop I will use. It is easy to navigate and I never have any problems with it!
5|This is a replacement for a 7/8 year version which still works perfectly, just needed to upgrade the hardware to get access to the better OS and compatibility with newer software /services. May seem expensive compared to a PC, but so maintenance free, easy to use, clear display and really well built. PC's last about 3 years, these last at least 6!
5|Very good product, many features. Apple Mac Book Pro is the way to go.
5|So I am not a mac person, but I bought this for my wife who is a mac person. She loves it (especially since her old one was 9 years old) especially the nicer screen resolution. The computer runs smooth and I know for her one of the most important things is that it looks nice, and has an excellent keyboard.
5|I am very pleased with my new MacBook Pro. It is fast, looks great and does everything I need.
5|Daughter loves it! Compatible with her college classes and school and loves that she can listen to her music and watch her movies.
3|Does everything you expect a mac to do. nothing more, nothing less.
5|love the computer have had not problems with it ..
5|Yes..I recommend this Mac Book Pro to everyone who enjoy a good product.
5|I bought for my son who is attending an acting and directing school to use for editing movies and voice over reels.
5|I was satisfied with my purchase. Easy to use and lightweight.
5|Very useful,nice and good quality, no too havey , good for personal and busness both us to use to, I will tell to my friend and family to use .
5|Once you get a Mac, you won't want to go back. Best computer ever
5|Its nice and very good for size to carry in the school bag
4|As a Mac, it is undeniably good and reliable. It is a bit older and the RAM size on my computer makes it a little tedious at times to multitask. Compared to more recent models and the newest MacBook, this older Pro is clunky and heavy. However, it gets the job done, still looks great, and is a safe and reliable buy for cheaper than more recent models. I am honestly very happy with this purchase and love my Mac. I just wish i had more RAM so that it would work a bit faster.
5|i have really enjoyed my mac pro. It is very easy for me to use. The battery last long. The screen is large enough. It has plenty of storage. I can upload everything I want and watch movies clearly. I love that I can still insert a disc as well. I am very pleased with Apple.
5|Have been using this laptop for 3 weeks and love it. Not very heavy and comfortable weight to handle. When i first saw it, was very amazed about how light it is as I was using a Windows laptop before! Great design and quality from Apple
5|Reliable computer to buy. Best in the market for anything
5|I loved the college student discount and we love the Apple computers
4|My son purchased this computer for work and loves it!
5|Love apple products. This computer is perfect for people planning to use it for school
5|I love My comp Mac book pro 13.3 the Best me encanta la Mac book pro
5|An apple product speaks for itself. I have an iPhone, ipad, iPod but never owned a MAC. Took a while to get used to, but it's awesome!
5|PURCHASE DUE TO PRICE AND LOVE THE FEATURES AND GREAT QUALITY! IM VERY HAPPY AND SATISFIED WITH ALL THE PROGRAMS IT HAS TO OFFER!
4|This was the best gift to give a college freshman.
5|Confident that this will be the only college computer I will have to buy
5|Works fast on university VPN and doesn't freeze when running statistical analyses
5|This MBP is worth every dime AT the SALE PRICE. I would not pay the full $1099 for this being that it is a 2012 model. I bought this to compliment my 2015 15" retina MBP because this has the built in CD/DVD drive, Firewire and ethernet built in.
5|This Macbook pro is the best computer it is sleek, and simple to use. The programs work flawlessly and I love having the CD drive built in. I recieved it as a graduation gift and I use it every single day.
5|Everything I expected and more! Compact and very easy to use! Five star!!
5|Went apple and never looked back. Better than any windows machine I've ever used.
5|This laptop is my first Mac and it required getting used to it. The quality of the hardware and software is amazing.
5|I am going back to school and this Mac is perfect.
5|I needed a mac to use as I take swift coding classes. I need one that had a good size hard drive and a CD drive. This MacPro gave me all I needed. I like Mac because they just work.
5|The MacBook Pro is probably the best laptop in the market and provides a great experience
5|This is a great laptop. It will do everything you need. Got it specifically because it has the disk drive. Apple makes fantastic computers that rarely need servicing. Worth the extra. Great silver color, too!
5|This is our second Mac book pro. Getting used to subtle operating differences but still a great laptop.
5|THIS MACBOOK IS ABSOLUTELY AWESOME. I WILL NEVER GO BACK TO A REGULAR PC AGAIN. I CAN DO SO MANY THINGS ON IT AND THE FACT THAT IT SYNCS TO MY OTHER APPLE DEVICES IS A PLUS.
5|I would recommend this product to anyone. I love how the programming is easy to navigate
5|Hey, it's a Mac, what else can I say. Got a student discount which makes it even better
5|I absolutely love my new MAC! Not only does it run extremely well, but it is world class fast. I have owned it now for a few months and absolutely no slowing down or virus problems. A truly great computer from a truly great company!
5|The Apple MacBook Pro is an awesome machine and if you price a comparable Windows machine it will cast the same or more and the Apple will last 3x as long
5|This laptop is great. It does everything i need and more.
5|Bought this Mac for my dad in Father's Day, he is beyond happy with it. Haven't had an issue yet.
5|I bought this Macbook Pro for my daughter to use for school, gaming and whatever else she may need. Since she had been wanting one for so long, she was thrilled to get it! So far it has been all she wanted and more. It is very quick and full of useful programs! Love it!
4|The only problem I am having is logging into the App Store.
5|This is for a college student use and so far is performing up to expectations for this high end lap top.
5|A little hard to navigate at first but getting used to it.
5|Tell me who would not like this of course I payed a lot for it
5|I love my macbook pro I wouldn't change it for anything, its not heavy and I can do everything on my macbook pro.
5|Great product for a first time Apple user. Get it!
5|love the graphics, easy to use. No viruses. Wouldn't buy anything else
5|My brother is starting college and i wanted to make sure he had the right computer for the job.
5|I love the feel of the keyboard and the fact that it is backlit. I can work with it on my lap and it does not get hot. The layout of the apps on the keyboard is also very handy.
5|I got the MacBook cuz my last computer, which was a pc, crashed, and I've been avoiding macs. But I got this for $950, which was cheaper than if I had a student discount! I also love it! I write music, record, and edit music, and garageband, which comes with the computer, has made significant improvements and changes to make it more user friendly and be comparable to pro tools (pro tools is still better but garageband is legit!) Plus, this computer is one of the only macs that are expandable in memory and in storage, and I'm looking to upgrade it later on when I get some money for way cheaper than if you bought the same computer from the store. Overall, I give it a solid 5 stars! It's awesome, and I'm getting used to the quirky mac stuff that's different than pc. If you want a solid, cheap, powerful, new computer, get this one! It's worth it! Amen!
5|I love my MacBook Pro and I love it even more because I can use a disc. It's the prefect size and works great!
4|Good labtop! I use it for school and I love it. I would recommend it to a friend.
5|This is our 2nd Mac (1st lasted 6 years) and we can't be happier. The ease of use of OS X converted us from windows which seem more like throw away machines anyway. Pay a little extra now and you won't have to buy a new computer every year.
5|This is a Top of the line computer Surfs the web fast
5|Best computer I've ever owned. Reliable, durable starts right up every time with little waiting.
5|This was a high school graduation present for my granddaughter. She loved it! Other than that, don't have a clue! Lol!
5|I have worked in corporate IT for some 10 years now, with emphasis on end user hardware (PCs/Laptops).. In that time I decided to give Apple another shot since switching to the Intel based CPU. WOW, what an improvement over my first attempt with the Motorola Mac Book (white) in the early 2000s. Great unit for general gaming, internet surfing and has a decent battery life on it.
5|Throughout high school, we were privellaged to have MacBook airs. I upgraded to the MacBook Pro for college and I love it.
5|Apple is top notch. This computer is fast and the display is phenomenal!!
5|Never owned one before I had heard to many negative things...but it is a great!!!! Easy to use, love it!!!
5|Best laptop I have ever owned. Don't think I will go back to a pc!
5|This is our family's 10th Macbook Pro and it performs just as well as the first nine. Nice to have the CD/DVD drive versus the air.
5|Easy to use for my AP biology class. Dependable and a quality piece of hardware.
4|it is the right one for her needs at college at this time
5|My first choice was to get the MacBook with Retina display but I wasn't willing to pay 200$+ to get a MacBook with a better screen while sacrificing the CD Rom drive and less gigs. I went with this because of the price and the great reviews. Thus far I am extremely happy I went with this one. The resolution isn't great but it isn't bad either. I am going to upgrade the ram on it soon... Luckily I can still do that with this MacBook and not the newer ones. Love my Mac!
5|great compter, apple never disappoints me...I have them all now.....the watch, phone, pad and now the mac
5|Service was fantastic!!! Parking was easy. Checking out even easier.
5|We purchased this MacBook for our daughter, soon to be college student. And it has all the essentials and is a great investment. The pro is a lot more reliable than the air and has many more features. Great speed, great picture quality, lots of memory and overall great laptop.
5|I purchased this computer for my daughter, she loves it.
5|This laptop is great quality, fast and it holds a lot of storage.
5|Apple gets it. Mac Book Pro for a college student. These kids have been raised on Apple products. This is a work horse.
5|MacBook Pro is the way to go. Great operating system. It's a little more pricey than a PC, but is well worth the money. Stable system good construction,
4|Although this is an outdated model, it still works great for our purposes. Highly recommended!
5|My daughter really loved her new mac book she uses it for everything
5|I really like this Macbook. Unlike the newer models, you can still upgrade your HDD and ram on this one.
5|Bought this for my daughter as a Christmas present to prepare for college. Great investment! It's everything she needs and some.
5|I've never had a mac before. I have no regrets in switching. I love my new computer! I able to make it dual boot system with bootcamp. Enjoying mac as well as windows in one system. Excellent performance.
5|Took advantage of open box at Arundel Mills location and my girlfriend was delighted with her macbook.
5|Love this machine! It is great for both my college life and my internship and keeping in touch with the world!
4|I have used it to complete scholarship applications and love how fast it is.
4|My son is preparing for college and has already linked to his college website. He is receiving updates already. The cool thing is he can link his I-Phone to his MacPro and have his I-Tunes link as well. This was a great investment on his future.
5|Good experience with this product. Just what my son needed for college
5|I've never had a mac before. I have no regrets in switching. I love my new computer!
5|Switched back to a Mac and couldn't be happier with the purchase
5|This is a great computer for the price. Purchased it for a graduate
4|I use this laptop as my work laptop. It works great with Microsoft Office. I love that I can instantly open it and start working. The way it connects all my apple devices is the best feature.
5|Best computer that i have bought so far!!! I was very pleased with it.
5|I've been very happy with my new MBP. I did upgrade my ram to 16GB which I picked up and installed myself. I recommend running at least 8gb of ram with the Yosemite. My battery life improved to after I upgraded ram. So far I do not miss my HP
5|it was a really fantastic laptop with an excellent outlook. The price is amazing with my student coupon. I will send it to my friend as his birthday gift. I am sure he will love it
5|This is my 3rd MacBook,-"" of which have worked on the same caliber from the day I unboxed them to when I bought the newer model. Great computer all in all!
5|Bought it as a Christmas present for my brother in law. He is very happy with it. It was a good alternative to the MacBook Air.
5|I'm in love with my MacBook Pro! It isn't that difficult to switch over from PC to Mac.
5|Perfect computer for the college student. First experience with MAC computers and so far, so good. Would suggest this purchase for anyone looking for a "good on the go" product.
4|I have really enjoyed my new Mac. The only thing is I wish it had more memory. Hard to put my Photoshop software on there because then there is no memory to run other things.
5|Perfect for what I do. Easy to set up. Great performance. DVD Reader included. Nice battery life. I work very comfortable with this purchase.
5|We love our Mac book pro. We have only owed Apple the last 10 years and have never been disappointed. It was so simple to transfer the information from our Mac mini to the MacBook Pro. I like the fact that it still has the disk drive.
5|You can't go wrong with Apple products! Great speed and love the aluminum!
5|No doubt about the product performance. Works best compare to other brand laptops
4|I love the Mac. The store experience wasn't the best though.
5|Build quality is nice. OS runs well which is expected when the software developer is also the hardware engineer. Only regret is not getting it with a solid state hard drive.
5|Purchased for my daughter for high school graduation present and she loves it.
4|Had a great experience using that Macbook, had many features and programs that made its use easy for me. Perfect quality for a perfect size.
5|Easy to set up and use. Great size/weight. Excellent screen resolution and no windows hassles. What's not to like? High price? Maybe but when you consider performance it is a real value
5|changed from windows to mac and i don't regret a single thing about it. so far my macbook pro 13" works perfectly after a year and a half of my purchase
5|I purchased this Mac Book Pro for my 87 year old mother. She had a PC that died and we have all Mac's and think they are awesome. I set it up for her and she is finding it way easier to use than her old computer. Once again - thank you apple for such great products!
5|I have used Apple most of my life and this is another good product from Apple that I am happy to recommend
5|The screen on this computer is absolutely unbelievable. I can see so clearly, and it doesn't give me a headache like some screens do.
5|Excelent fast, easy to use great price great product, it's easy, it's Apple
5|My daughter really wanted a Mac for college. While I had my doubts, she is really enjoying this product.
5|The MacBook Pro is an excellent computer. The graphics are brilliant and the speed is superb.
4|The MacBook is easy to use and fast. Pricey but overall a good investment.
5|This was a graduation gift for my daughter leaving for college, she loves this laptop and would recommend it to anyone.
3|I love Apple products, but switching from the Air to the Pro, I realize this computer is quite slow. Still a good computer.
5|Laptop was bought as a graduation gift and it works wonderfully! Definitely recommend to anyone. Very easy to use, small and light to carry around campus.
5|Great price for a lot of computer. Going to buy another one!
4|Love this laptop. Tried the retina display on my iMac but chose this for the laptop. Overall satisfied, pages etc are a big plus!
5|It's a great laptop, easy to use, screen looks great
5|Love the apple MacBooks. Even this one without the retina display
5|This is my favorite laptop I've ever had, never going back to pc.
5|I love this macbook but I would say go with a new model cause it will work better and faster
5|Macbook is easy to use, no problems so far. this is my second one.
1|While I am a big fan of Apple and their Macbook line, I was disappointed with this particular laptop. After 3 days of light use, the laptop began restarting sporadically and gave me error messages. If I was doing some ridiculous computing or demanding activity, I could maybe see how, but I did nothing more than check my e-mail on a web browser. I decided to return it. While I have had great experiences with the same machine owned by other people, this one was not up-to-par.
4|i absolutely love it my new mac everything great, you pay more for an Apple computer. And you get what you pay for
5|I bought this mac laptop to replace my mac book pro that I took in for repair. I like the 13 inch size - it will fit where the larger laptop won't.
5|easy to use as a beginner to Apple. Have always been a PC user
5|I bought this Macbook pro for my wife. She had many issues with her previous pc. The Macbook works like a dream and is easy to use. I would recommend it to anyone who is thinking about making a switch to Mac.
4|Easy to control. Nice display. Responsive when touching the LCD.
4|i had good service and I like what I got. Good job
5|I bought this over the newest models because it offers a disc drive.
5|I use it for my school assignments and projects, it stays charged for almost all day and is light to carry around. I am glad I made this purchase.
5|This was a very easy purchase. Salesman was excellent. I love my new MacBook Pro!
5|I bought it to replace my MacBook Pro (2010). It is a great product. I like the fact that it has a superdrive.
5|Awesome product , I have always used windows for my computers , however now I am a complete Apple user .... iPhone 6, iPad mini 2, and MacBook Pro . The first week I had no clue what I was doing but now I've gotten the hang of it . Looks so sharp .
5|Is a good laptop I like most programs on it A bit is hard to work with you have to study it when you have to use difrent programs
5|quite different from ms units. takes some getting use to.
5|Great device. Images and speed are incredible. Love it.
5|I love he MacBook very convient and easy to use I would highly recommend it
5|I am so happy with this product have lot of feature
5|Just what she needs to start college. Everything she needs and so much more
5|About 6 years ago I got fed up with all of the system crashes I kept having on my Windows machine. I had to reload everything on the machine more than once and gradually the machine would become painfully lethargic and start to crashing again. I switched to Mac and have never looked back. They just work, and you don't have to mess with them constantly. Making the transition was easy, and thankfully, I don't have to play the role of part time IT technican anymore!
5|I have always owned Windows products but one little transaction changed everything. I am sold and MAC has got my business for a number of reasons. Just one is being able to link different products providing a backup solution to files.
5|I love my new mac! Previously owned a mac that lasted me 5 years with only 1 battery change. Though that one was still usable I decided to get this one. Sleek looking, fast and awesome!
2|Should have bought the Next step up MacBook Peo with retinal display -so much faster and newer technology -
5|Awesome product. Has worked well so far and we will continue using this HP brand
5|Great computer. The computer was on sale. Great price and they let me use a 10% off any one item coupon they sent via email.
5|The one I purchased 3 years ago is still going strong.
5|i really liked my macbook pro.. i can FaceTime by cousin when ever i want rather then using Skype i prefer facetime
5|O fr they have been great, i use them when i ride my motercycle ans i can hear the music pretty good
5|Easy to carry with long battery life. The performance is great even when running Windows and Visual Studio under Parallels.
5|When first looking at laptops I was torn between a MacBook Air and MacBook Pro. After weighing out the pros and cons, I decided to go the pro route. I couldn't be more happy with my decision! I have been able to figure the operating system fairly easy, the battery lasts all day when I'm using it, sound quality is nice, and overall a wonderful laptop for anyone in school.
5|Execelent computer i love everything of this computer
4|The set up of apps and programs are easy to use for me
5|Pleased as always with Apple products. So intuitive to use
5|I love the lighter weight and clear picture. Mine!
5|its fast, easy to learn and gets the job done. As a
1|I was not happy with my apple computer. It would not connnect to wifi and was difficult to set up account. I would not buy.
4|Bought computer for my 12 year old daughter because it was compact, light and easy to use
5|Love everything about my MacBook! From the fast speed to the fact that it's durable and lightweight, this is easily the best investment!
5|Workhorse computer that last for years! Highly Recomend
5|I would always recommend Apple especially if this is your first computer...start out right!
5|VERY GOOD ITHEM NOT COMPLAINS, fast speed and easy to use
5|Excellent product. An upgraded from a macbook air.
5|I will never go back to windows, this thing is amazing!
5|The MacBook is awesome very happy with the purchase.
5|My mac is very useful for office products and works well with my job requirements.
5|Easy to use and easy to setup, many task being used daily
5|As with every other Apple product I own it's great.
5|Great buying experience. Staff was friendly and very helpful.
5|I bought this Mac pro to use for audio/music tracks for our worship team. I dont think I need to tell you how good Macs are, you probably already know that by now. The reason I bought the 4gb ram model is because it is super easy and more economical to upgrade the ram to 8gb yourself. Found 8gb ram for this mac model online for $65. Unscrew the bottom cover off. Remove the 2 original ram and replace with new ram. Screw the bottom cover back on and turn on your machine. It instantly recognized the new ram. Easy upgrade.
5|Even though it is not the recent model it works great and is easy to use!
5|My husband and I were looking for a laptop that was able to read CD/DVD and this one has a CD/DVD reader. Very good for photo editing because it has a very good display resolution.
5|This is my first Mac. I have owned four pcs in the past. I decided this time to try an Apple product. So far I am very happy with it. Some things are a little different on it so I am still learning, but it seems very intuitive.
5|Pretty happy with the macbook so far. Also very happy with the customer service I received at the store.
5|I have talked many of my friends into graduating from PC high school to Mac University...no complaints and happy faces.
5|This is the second MacBook Pro i have bought in the last 2 years. After returning to college myself and seeing the young kids with apples i inquired as to why send such a large amount of money on a laptop. only to learn the average kids had had their laptop for approximately 6 to 8 years and was still working like a one. Therefore when my daughter started school last year i purchased one for her and the results have been wonderful. so i bought one this year for my other daughter starting college in the fall we also purchased the apple external hard drive to make sure it always has plenty of data storage
5|At first I was lost on how to use it but once I got the hang of it it became so easy to navigate through.
5|Zero "Buyers Remorse". Its everything I wanted, and more.
5|i purchased a mac book pro and the whole experience was fantastic
5|this laptop has everything a student needs for class work and game time. It is small enough to carry from class to dorm yet large enough not to cause fatigue from looking at a tiny screen.
5|Love the laptop. Works smooth and effortlessly, transition from windows was easy
5|money well spend. i will definately recommend to friend
4|Everything you could want solid laptop I'm enjoying every minute
5|great reliable computer and cheaper than the Apple store
2|I like it...but the real question is when you can buy real nice laptop for $500 these days...is it worth spending $1000 for an Apple laptop that pretty much only offers 75% configuration compared to other brands. Then again these laptops are only good for 3 years at the most...they become outdated so fast. It may be affordable for many, but the real question...is it worth?
5|Laptop works great makes it easy sync with the other apple products that we have easy to use and reliable
5|Great machine. Perfect for what I am using it for.
4|I needed a new laptop as soon as possible because I am a student. My MacBook Pro is great and I'm very happy with it.
5|While I was still thinking whether to purchase the laptop, I received insightful and quick help and answers to my questions. After ordering, the service was very quick.
5|The Apple MacBook Pro works fine. It will be used by my son for his graphic art studies. My other son wants his own so he can compose music with it.
4|Still, this completes my set. I have an iMac, iPhone, and an iPad. Now I have a MacBook. So far so good. I am happy with my purchase. A slight learning curve to make them all work together, but I am pressing on.
5|This is great laptop. Easy to use, fast, and great graphics. Best available for teachers
5|I love this computer.great buy and easy to use.buy it
5|Love the backlit keyboard and the easiness of use. Would definitely recommend this.
4|While it was difficult to transition from PC to a Macbook, I get excited to use my Macbook everytime I use it. I know I purchased a reliable machine because it works quickly and efficiently. Sometimes I wish the Macbook came with more instructions for set up, but overall i'm learning pretty fast. I would never buy a computer without a CD drive.
5|I bought this laptop because my Dell laptop just wasn't fast enough for me although it was fairly new. The Macbook was extremely fast and simple to use compared to my Dell because of the Windows 8 layout which was very difficult to navigate around. I also love the aluminum shell as it makes the laptop look very clean and durable. Although Macbooks are pricier than most laptops, I do believe that it was worth the buy.
4|I came from a PC, switching to a Mac I thought would be fairly easy as I have an iPhone and iPad. I was wrong. I felt like an 80 yr old whom has no clue how to use a computer :) It seems like it would be great if only it were more like a PC in terms of use. So far, what I can use/work I do like :)
5|I've been an Apple customer for a long time, love it.
3|The system is not that user friendly. Not what I was told and very hard to use
4|I luv my Mac (computer luv), but was initially put off by the slow and impossible downloads and programs opening when I turned my pc on. I finally had to download software at a place with free wifi, but I still don't know why programs were opening automatically when I turned my pc on. If anyone knows please share the knowledge. Thanks
5|Links with all my apple devices - light weight makes it easy to transport great size for use on planes as well as desks. Should have got it sooner!
5|For my specific needs, this laptop works great. I recommend.
5|Had to upgrade my hp so I dec to go with Mac best decision yet.
5|Went from a Lenovo to this MacBook Pro. I thought it was going to take a while to adapt but honestly, the transition was super easy.
5|It's everything my iMac has but since it's s bit older it has a cd drive which is nice since I can take a small but if control back from apple and not only be able to import music via iTunes
5|It the best machine i ever have!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
4|I am a transitioning PC user. So, my limited experience has made using the Macbook a bit of a challenge, but I am getting the hang of it. I opted against the retina display, but am perfectly satisfied with the clarity of images, and am enjoying the additional features I have access to.
5|I love the MacBook Pro. I have owned many PCs but I will only buy Macs from now on.
5|I bought this apple computer for my mom and she absolutely loves it
5|I love my iphone so naturally I would progress to an Apple computer/laptop. Although it's different than the Microsoft based computer I am use too, I found this transition to be easy. This laptop is light, fast and user friendly. I love the features of the backlite keys and the finger swipes! Anyone who is thinking about purchasing this laptop, should! You will love it and never go back to a Microsoft based computer!
5|I love how the computer syncs with my phone. Really easy to use.
5|My daughter purchased this for school; it has been great!
5|The laptop was definitely a great buy, a little on the heavy side but has everything I needed.
5|I purchased a Windows PC and returned it that day because the first time online it was hit with viruses and other things that locked up my computer. I took it back and got another one and that had issues. I decided to purchase the MacBook Pro and I am so glad I did. I had it for three months and not one issue. It is fast and reliable. I guess you get what you pay for. Apple products rule.
5|We purchased this computer for our son. We ordered online and picked it up in the store in a few minutes. Thank you so much.
5|This laptop is great for spaces which require a lightweight and portable Mac. Still has the SuperDrive, for those who want to use the optical drive for CD's/DVD's. Devoted fan of Mac, this laptop is a good investment. Would recommend going up to 8G for RAM if you use a lot of software programs.
5|I struggled with the decision to buy a laptop. Now I am so glad I did. Great computer!! Great price!! I don't know why I waited.
5|My wife needed a computer to teach her class at a local high school and this one was the recommended in owe price rang. Works great and she loves it!
4|I was originally on the fence about the expense of a Mac but am totally enjoying all the convenience and light weight of this computer still with my cd driver
5|I love my mac, been wanting one for a while, it is great and I love how it comes fully loaded with all the apps and you don't have to buy add ons.
5|I just like it..it is really nice and easy to work with.
5|Changed from PC to Apple and was the best thing I could've done.
5|It met all my expectations. It is fast and a great computer.
4|Got this to use for college classes and I love it! Great battery life and easy to carry!
5|This is the third MacBook I've bought and it's just as good as any and every Mac or apple product I've bought
5|This was the first mac I've ever bought. I am extremely pleased with this product so far. Not hard to use. The only thing I would suggest is to turn of the backlight right away on the keyboard because it drains the battery quicker than the 7 hours it's suppose to last.
5|had a 2008 mac pro, and got this new one. light weight and super nice to use
5|I bought 2 for my kids they love them use them for school and social
5|It is such a major change from the traditional lap tops we have used for years. Fast, NO freeze ups! We will be upgrading all of our desk tops and lap tops to MAC over time.
5|My daughter loves her new laptop. She finds the Mac easier to navigate and there are more things for it.
5|Apple charges a little more but it is worth it. This laptop is an excellent computer!
5|I can FaceTime my brother when in out of town or don't want to use data from my phone.
5|I became a Mac fan 5 years ago, and I'm happy to say that I'm still a fan of my MacBook Pro.
5|We have had a great experience except for a couple errors in product recommendation from the staff which weren't compatible for our new mac computer. Overall, it has been a great experience! Thanks!
4|It kids product losts longer, I can recommend friends , we almost have 4 laptops like this
5|Works great!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
3|The macbook is really nice. I like it better than the pc i had before. It has beautiful pictures
4|A little bit slow but still works and does what it needs to do .
5|fast, reliable, easy to use, user friendly. love it
5|This complete has been the best computer purchase for my college son.
5|For the longest I was reluctant to buy into the "Apple hype" , then recently, I needed a new laptop and after shopping around for weeks didn't really find a single one I really liked. I had a Sony Vaio before and loved it.Then I saw this beauty and after doing some intense research decided to go for it. So far I really love it. It is fast, has great battery life and there is plenty to learn about it.
5|I bought the MAC at the suggestion of my wife but was a little skeptical. After the first 5 minutes, I was very glad I listened to my wife, the MAC is absolutely awesome and very fast.
5|it is taking some time to get used to it compared to our old HP but we love it.
5|Best laptop ever. I definitely recommend this laptop to anyone, especially college students. Definitely worth the buy.
5|What can you say that hasn't already been said about Apple products? Great computer.
5|Able to cover all my classes with the software installed. I love mac products
5|Its a really good product for the price you pay....i l9ve it....super fast , no virus issue, working smooth
5|Bought this as a Christmas gift for a friend. He loves it!
1|I had finally decided to buy myself a Mac for my college classes. However, while finals are around the corner and projects are due..... my charger decides not work anymore(charger light flickers orange - green - off, screen blinks &amp;amp; dims). I bought the Mac Jan 15th..... not even 5 months ago. Very disappointed and stressed out.
4|overall good laptop, gets a little bogged down when you have a lot running but given that I didn't customize it, thats expected.
5|Great computer for novice and experienced users. Highly recommend
5|I love my laptop! It is great for school and was worth the money.
5|I opted for this MacBook Pro due to it being on sale, and because I chose compatability with my other devices over price. I am continuing to learn the ins and outs of the machine, but have been pleased thus far. It is an attractive piece of equipment with no flaws to speak of thus far, only my own personal limitations as I adapt to the new interface. I am a fan of all that you can do with variations of fingers on the touchpad. Time will tell if it was worth the overall price.
5|This is an excellent computer, very fast . I would recommend this to anyone.
5|I bring my macbook with me everyday, super light. Super fast. All around great macbook pro
5|MACBOOK PRO IS AWESOME EVERYTHING ABOUT IT IS JUST AWESOME AND IT WORKS GREAT.
5|I up grade my MacBook for this MacBook Pro and I love it. Apple never let me down.
5|It is easy to use &amp;amp; setup and great for work (or school) &amp;amp; pleasure. It's has a CD/DVD drive as well, which is nice.
5|great for work &amp;amp; pleasure, light weight............
5|Amazing purchase and service when buying the laptop and printer
5|Love it! It's definitely worth the price. Must invest
5|I bought this computer for my wife replaced old laptop with a Mac I am so sold will never go back
5|If you want a Macbook with a built-in CD/DVD drive this is the only Macbook model that has it. Furthermore, the memory and hard drive are upgradeable by the user. The stock model has 4GB RAM and a 500GB hard drive. As your needs change, the memory can be upgraded to as much as 16GB, and the hard drive to 2TB, but you will have to use non-Apple parts. The screen is not a retina screen, but it is still very good. If you take good care of it, this Macbook Pro will last for many years .
4|Very happy with my purchase very easy and smooth ...
5|Easy and efficient to use. Fast. Not "glitchy" and stubborn like my Samsung was.
5|Seriously, if ya have to ask ya just don't know...
4|This is a solid computer. Better than MacBook Air but not as fancy schmancy as the new MBPs. I bought this, upgraded Ram to 8GB and purchased a SSD drive to install to make it a lot faster yet still cheaper than the new ones.
5|Not as fast as my old PC Laptop but good enough for my needs. So far no problems and it works great. I love that it has a good size hard drive and dvd drive. It takes some getting used to the Mac way of doing things. So far I love my MacBook Pro.
5|This is my first Mac and I love it. It takes some getting used to since I've always had Windows based machines but once you familiarize yourself with it you'll love it. I also love that I can connect my iPhone, my son's iphone, my iPad and our Apple TV to it. 5 stars from me!! &amp;lt;3
5|Meets all my expectations, was not sure about Apple but i am now a believer.
5|Bought for son going to college. Great Product for school.
5|I only used it a few times but it's great. although I do recommend buying more ram.
4|This is a replacement for the mac I had that wasn't working. It was a fufilment order.
5|I had my last MacBook Pro for 7 years. I love my new MacBook and hope it lasts as long.
4|Great deal for a Macbook Pro. I wish it had more ram. So far I have nothing else to complain about.
3|I got this laptop for my son. He loves it. I got an open boxed item and all was perfect.
5|Happy to be an apple user. It's been 4 months now since i bought this macbook and quite satisfied with this laptop.
5|First macbook, I love it, very user friendly, I will never go back to a PC.
5|Samsung 55' is tres cool! Perk is that it eliminates the need of for a cable box!
5|If you are an Apple fan you can't go wrong with this laptop. It's easily compatible with other Apple products and performs well when researching or surfing the web.
4|Overall its a great laptop but if you have iMessage on it will slow down the computer until it catches up to the message that you've sent using your phone
4|This laptop is one of the best machines I've bought so far. I like everything about it.
5|This is a great computer for students. I use it for school and it works great.
3|Buy it New better results.may need more memory Anne doesn't have CD burner on it.
5|i loved it but it was for my wife and she thought it was too heavy to travel/fly with so i returned it.
4|The computer has been everything we've expected. Fast, reliable, and easy to use. The only issue keeping it from 5 stars is the fact that sleep mode is fairly slow to wake up. That could be a software issue, though.
5|My macbook was in impeccable condition and has been workday greatly since my purchase.
5|New to Mac and I love it, very nice easy to use!!!
5|This Mac is lightweight with a lot of speed. It has a beautiful design
4|I bought this laptop to replace a water-damaged Macbook Air for my daughter at collage. It is affordable but old model. She is planning to upgrade the RAM and hope to boost up the speed.
5|I've never been an Apple person, but this Mac is absolutely wonderful! Such an upgrade from my old Dell. I am able to keep records of all bills paid, do work documentation, and keep everything organized. I initially got the computer for school purposes and with all of the features, I am excelling in school as well. I Love, love, love it and I would definitely recommend this product.
4|Haven't had any problems with it. Love it! Won't ever go back to Samsung or hp
5|Ever since my eldest daughter purchased her Mac, I've been wanting to buy a Mac. As a PC user since the dawn of time, I never thought I'd change. Windows 8 changed all that. It was the straw that broke this camel's back. I finally bought my Mac and have been thrilled with it. It is truly easy to navigate, and I've only had a few bumps (easily fixed with Apple). I highly recommend this product!
5|bought this for my daughter for college. this mac is fast! I plan on buying myself one with retina
5|I'm happy with my Mac Pro. Went with the pro because I wanted the option to upgrade.
5|It was a hard decision to transtion to a Mac. But I did and love it. I will never go back to a PC.
5|This is an all around amazing computer I love it!!
5|There isnt a better laptop on the market than the MacBook Pro.
5|I have never used a MAC before and always had a negative comment about them just because i had not used one. Now that i have one, i love it and would recommend to anyone!
5|This is. You first Macbook and I am completely loving it. The price was not outrageous and the software is spot-on with my Internet and programming needs. I bought the magic mouse to go along with it and the pair couldn't be more perfect.
4|My 42" Panasonic TV's speakers are terrible. This sound bar was the cure. I only need to turn up the sound bar to 10 to get the same volume as 40 from the TV speakers. And it sounds so much more clear and the rumble of the bass is awesome when watching movies. It took me a while to figure out how to program my Directv remote to control the sound bar, but I did it and now the sound bar powers on when I turn on the TV and I can control volume with the Directv remote. You still need the sound bar remote to control the equalizer and subwoofer levels. The only downside is that when bluetooth streaming music from my iPhone, I can't really find a good equalizer setting to get the music to sound good. But that's okay because I don't really plan to use it to stream music.
4|I really like this laptop. I had a hard time in deciding if I should upgrade my laptop from a regular laptop to then a macbook. It is all worth it, the only complaint I have is that is it does run a little slow bringing up any application compared to my Asus but I can live with it.
4|Got this for my Highschool student for her schoolwork, came with everything she needed to help her succeed.
3|Ouch! Ouch! ouch! Ouch! OUch! xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5|i would buy it again it's good for streaming music
5|Apple products never fail to achieve a classy and smooth operation and function.
5|My first MacBook and I love it! Great computer!!!!
5|I'm very impressed with this laptop. It's much quicker and smoother than my previous Windows computers (which I also liked). It did take a little while to learn the ropes with a Mac, but I'm getting a hang of it. The CD drive is nice to have on this one considering how much I use it for music.
4|This is very good laptop. The only thing I would have changed is the speed. Great for the price!
5|I definitely i like to recommend this MacBook Pro it's looks great !!
5|The price during sales season is really good for such a quality imac
4|Good battery life. This is my personal laptop, I mostly use to Skype or watch movies. This is excellent for developers, especially Linux kernel base.
5|It was challenging switching from being a long time PC user. Now that I'm getting the hang of it I wished I had changed a long time ago.
5|Bought this and 16gb of ram and a 500gb SSD. This Mac is insanely fast when you upgrade it like so.
5|Great computer , easy to use, great to look at. NO REGRETS!!
5|Love my laptop. 1st Apple product ever purchased..
5|i was never a mac guy until desperately needing a new computer and taking a chance on this lap top. now i'm a mac guy. this machine is great.
5|Love my mac book pro... i cant believe i prolonged the switch. It is fast, relaible and attractive. Mac is more stresmlined than windows and fairly easier to learn
5|love my macbook wouldn't want to ever have another laptop brand. super fast and easy to learn how to use everything is has to offer. would recommend it to anyone i know. you can't go wrong with a macbook
4|I love my Mac book pro. I went from using only windows to the Mac and the transition was fine. After having an iPhone and iPad, it was very easy to figure out. Everyone told me it would be so difficult to use, but I actually find it to be easier to navigate. It is made much sturdier than previous laptops I have owned. Very happy with it
5|This a great on the go laptop,fast and reliable with a super clear retina display
5|I am so loving my Mac book pro! It has been a smooth transition from a desktop to laptop. I love the ease of moving around between programs and the speed.
4|I got the new MacBook for internet use. I feel safer with an Apple product as they don't get viruses.
5|Love it!!!!!!! Everything you need in a laptop!!!!
5|I was very pleased with the sales support at Beat Buy in building out my apple with needed accessories.
5|The speed and easy accessibility is great with a LONG battery life! Way better then Windows. It's very sleek and light. There is also tons of help online for any questions I have.
5|Apple never fails to amaze with their great line of MacBooks. This is everything I expected and more.
5|very happy--bought for my son--sales guy was awesome! sold me what we needed--didnt over sell!
4|Apple is an amazing product, quick easy to use and very reliable
5|First Mac love it and its light and a well built computer. Didnt realize how good the mac was
5|This is one of the best computers so far! Easy to use and it is so slim. It is lightweight and sleak. Holds a lot of memory and data. I have other Apple devices so I will definitely stay with Apple.
5|I love this version of the MacBook pro because it is easy to add more speed and memory if need be and it has a disc drive. Those were both of the qualities I was looking for in a new MacBook. The new MacBook was lighter, but it didn't have moving parts, which meant I couldn't add or take anything away from the laptop. Great speed, great screen resolution, great laptop.
5|I need a larger screen but hated the weight of !5-17" computers. This one is perfect blend. I now know why I see some many students using Mac computers. I am still learning how to do some things after using a regular PC for so many years. The more I learn the more I love this computer. We are now a two Mac household. The only draw back is that some of my favorite games are not Mac compatible. I love not having to renew internet security systems every year.
5|i love apple products and this was the next and best thing for me for school and my career
5|Powerful and light - perfect combination for school.
5|Love this computer Great speed and perfect size for using in college.
3|would have liked to have had a tutorial in the store
5|This is a great computer. perfect for traveling and using at home. Its fast and reliable. worth the money and, from my experiences, lasts longer than any other computer out there.
5|Always had a pc but I love the MacBook Pro. Don't think I'll ever go back. Ilove this laptop just cant wait to learn more.
5|This is the perfect laptop to run out Church media. We have no hiccups with it. So far it has been smooth sailing.
5|i will stick with Apple,they fit my structure and personality perfectly.Do not get me wrong...Windows makes great computers too and you get what you pay for.My advice spend the extra dough and get the best you can afford. I would recommend Apple to anyone.
5|Great computer for both my dj and photography business will be buying another one shortly
5|Nice reliable computer. This is perfect for my daughter to use this year when she starts college.
4|love my mac, but I'm still getting used to using it.
5|I bought a HP back in November and it froze up in December. I switched and bought the Mac and am so happy for doing so.
5|love it. Took a little getting use to, easy. love it
5|I reluctantly went in and bought a brand new computer for the first time in my life and I do not regret it.
4|This is my first Mac but so far I am enjoying it. I still have some things to learn but overall it is not do different than my old Toshiba as far as ease of use. I'm hoping it last longer than my old laptop. Worth the extra money if it lasts!
5|Apple has the best laptops.... I love my new computer. :-)
5|I've always owned a MacBook since Apple launched the aluminum unibody design. I'm not an Apple fanboy (I have owned windows laptops and chrome books) and I can honestly say that Apple does make the best laptops. My last MacBook pro was from 2009 and still works like I just took it out of the box. It was just time to upgrade. I know windows has some great laptops but in all honestly Apple products just last longer. MacBooks are a better bang for your buck in the long term. Get one and you won't regret it.
5|Purchased this laptop for my child, loves the laptop. The screen is large and easy to use.
5|The computer had better picture and hard drive than my other computer.. And it goes with my I phone 6
4|We love our computer. The software and assistance we received were great.
5|everything about apple is amazing ... love this computer and would recommend it to anyone !!
5|Needed a reliable computer and Apple was my first and only choice!
5|It works really well, has everything I need, and is just a joy to have.
5|Excellent.loving the product.... Its serving me better as expected
4|loving the product.... Its serving me better as expected
5|I was a pc user and wanted to switch over to a apple, and this one was a great choice for my transition!!!!
5|this is better then my previous laptops.I'm proud of it.
5|This a great laptop for music producers that are on the road.
5|I am very satisfy with the product. They matched up the price with other store. It's really cool.
4|It was a lot of money, but completely worth it to me
5|The graphics are great. Computer has all the features for a college student
5|Was hesitant about going "Apple" but love it not hard to change from windows !
5|I tried a windows 8 laptop and returned it quickly. You simply can't beat the ease of use and reliability of Apple. Hate loading drivers and installing setup disks? Buy a Mac!
5|Great comp espeicially for forat time apple laptop owner! Super excited to creat my You Tube vids w this awesome laptop.
5|i love my MacBook Pro. First Apple laptop I've had and I love it as much as my iPhone and iPad.
5|My MacBook has all I need and it's easy to use. It's perfect for getting my getting my work done.
5|I have always loved anything APPLE....this laptop is fabulous.
5|Awesome laptop everyone would like it for any age.
5|ON A SCALE FROM 1 TO 10 THIS APPLE COMPUTER IS A SOLID 27
5|This laptop is amazing, I love everything about. So easy to use.
5|Best laptop. Super user friendly, no set up...just open the box and turn it on.
5|Great product would not ever get any other brand again
5|Love the Mac. It's a very good laptop and exactly what I needed for class. Very durable and light weight.
4|Its worth Buying.Its user friendly and its better you go with 8gb or 16gb ram if possible..
5|This computer is wonderful. Apple products usually live up to their standards
5|I purchased this laptop to replace a laptop my husband used. Unfortunately, the previous MacBook proved it had one flaw. It could not swim. We were fortunate enough to be able to purchase another with the same features we needed which was an internal disc drive. We love it.
5|Love the MacBook Pro - no virus, easy to use, good quality, great picture quality.
5|I love my MacBook Pro; I have had several laptops and it out performs any of my previous ones. The MacBook Pro is easy to use, fast, and so light weight. You can take it anywhere!
5|The thing I love most about Apple products are they just work efficiently. It took less than five minutes to attach my printer and get it going. I was up and running out of the box in less than fifteen minutes.
5|Been a mac head forever love the power and the sleek design cant go wrong with a macbook
5|I have stayed away from Apple computers/laptops in the past because of the price even though we have Apple mobile devices. Bought this anyway and love everything about it. Beats our Lenovo and HP hands down perfect size and weight to take with you but still big enough to really enjoy gaming and other entertainment. Not having to buy anti-virus software is a plus as well.
5|Great macbook with the price, It looks like a new. Apple - MacBook Pro - Intel Core i5 - 13.3" Display - 4GB Memory - 500GB Hard Drive - Silver
5|Had to get use to the Mac Operating system, however This product is fantastic. Very user friendly once you are familiar with how to navigate. Would recommend to anyone who likes the apple product line. Very dependable.
4|I have long been a Microsoft person, both at home and professionally. The MacBook was a surprise in how easy it was to set up and start using. The only issue I have is the price of this laptop. A comparable Windows laptop would have, as an example, an Intel I7 core. It would have at least 6 gig and a terabyte of disc space. However, the overall quality of the Apple MacBook Pro is fantastic. It has an overall solid feel when I use it. I recommend it highly if price is not a big deal for you.
5|This has been the best laptop we have had in sometime. It is my first Apple and it is great.
5|It takes a little getting used to but once you get the shortcuts down, you won't want to go back!!
5|It took some getting use to but I love my MacBook Pro!!!
5|Fast processor and I love the built in hard drive and CD ROM
5|I bought this laptop as a gift for my wife's birthday... She loves it!
5|Built like a brick and quick as a rabbit. Great product. I am very pleased.
5|Love my Mac book pro! Apple products are the best!
4|It's a good computer Mac is a great product hold up for years
5|The Macbook pro is awesome... The downfall is the price tag
5|The MacBook Pro is a super nice computer that's very fast and economically friendly. Great buy for the money.
5|Switching from a Dell computer to an Apple product has been wonderful. Now all of my devices sync. It's terrific !! Plus, I was able to purchase/dowload Microsoft Office Suite for Apple, so I haven't missed a beat in keeping up with my work projects. I LOVE my Mac Book Pro!
5|Does what it says. So far no complaints. I would recommend this laptop for any mac product enthusiast.
5|I am enjoying my new MacBook as I can travel and get my work done at the same time. I am so happy I made this investment. I received excellent customer service the day I came into buy everything. Very pleased.
5|I love Mac for me is the best computer ever. Doesnt exist another better
4|great price open box purchase has worked well with no issues
5|This is the first Mac I've had in 20 years and the first MacBook I've ever had. I've been using it for about 2 1/2 months now. I found it intuitive to use - although accessing programs and functions is a little different than Windows, it wasn't hard to figure out at all. Just this weekend I was helping my brother with his HP laptop and was annoyed that I couldn't scroll on the mouse pad using 2 fingers and that I had to hit the bottom left corner of the mouse pad to click since you can push anywhere on the MacBook mouse pad to select. It dawned on me that's it these little things that make a big difference. I've only used my MacBook to surf the internet and to use Face Time so far, but everything has functioned great.
5|I had never used osx before this purchase and have never owned an ios device. Lots of people have told me that mac is the way to go because of superior hardware and simplicity of software. The hardware is good. The software took some getting used to. I had no idea why icons on the dock were bouncing, why icons in launchpad were jiggling, why I'd download a program to install that would open with an icon and arrow and folder (apparently I'm supposed to 'just know' that that means to drag the icon into the folder). After banging my head against google for a solid week, I think I have things the way I like them. The best feature of osx for me is that you can scroll in a window without changing focus from the window in which you're typing.
5|So easy to use. We were in desperate need of a new laptop. Since we both had iPhones and we had an iPad we decided to stick with Apple. I'm so glad we did. This macbook is fast! So much better than what I'm used to. Upgraded all the way around and the cost was about the same.
5|I love my macbook pro! Best computer I have ever had.
5|Makes ordering and keeping in touch so much easier. Love it.
4|Solid construction. Good size. Acceptable battery life.
5|I downloaded this Microsoft word so I type all my papers and love everything about it
4|They last forever and rarely will one ever encounter an error message. Only reason I did not give 5 stars is because at this price point, it should have 8 worth of ram not 4. Nothing says I'm better than you than a sleek macbook at your local coffee shop. I say this semi jokingly but last pc I bought was 11 years ago and likely will not buy another. Get the Mac, you know you want it and this is my 3rd macbook
5|Great product that always performs it's task. From iMovie to spread sheets.
5|Nice MacBook love it. Upgraded from my white macbook.
5|A little pricey but worth every penny runs so fast and does everything I need it to
5|I bought a second macbook pro.. This one was for some school work.. I love this mac
5|excelent computer for first time mac users. havent had any problems with it.
4|The computer is super and really easy to get started and use. I switched from a PC to Mac and don't miss it for a second. The only issue i have had so far is that the new Yosemite OS is not compatible with any of my peripherals yet. This requires me to repeatedly check Apple to see if drivers have been created, since I cannot currently use any of my printers or my scanner.
5|It's a Macbook, what more can I say! ! Once you go Mac you don't go back!
5|Kids love playing games on it.must faster than our old one.
5|There are not enough stars to rate how much I truly LOVE this MAC. I am formally a PC user and had never used a MAC before. I am glad I made the swith.
5|I love this computer. I am glad that I finally switched to the Mac.
5|I am still learning all the feature of this computer because I have always had Windows operating system. It's real easy to navigate and very user friendly.
4|I just type essays and use it for school so not really putting it to good use but great laptop
5|Everything works as I thought it will be, perfect for school
5|Great computer. First Mac I ever owned and I love it. I have the iPhone and they compliment each other.
5|Was able to get an open box that was pretty much brand new. Everything worked perfect and saved me $250
5|This computer works awesome! Very good quality computer!
5|Such a beautiful, slick design.. So happy with my purchase. Worth every penny!
5|A nice upgrade from my old MacBook. Has all the features of my old laptop plus more.
5|very good laptop but too expensive. bought for a friend.
5|great product, works 100% as expected. Found a great deal as this item was an open box. had no issues and was like brand new.
5|I read a novel recently in which the protagonist just purchased their first MacBook and likened the experience to going from a Toyota to a Mercedes. Nothing wrong with Toyotas, mind you- but the MacBook Pro is just so much better. This one was purchased for our son, who needed it for some specific applications at University. I've been using mine since last year, and I'm quite certain neither of us will ever go back. Worth the money- no doubt about it.
5|perfect size.. not many macs have a cd drive built in but this one does which is awesome! I like that you can buy cases and keyboard covers for protection unlike alot of laptops. Doesn't get hot or overheat like others i've had. would recommend to a friend or anyone buying a new computer.
5|THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH GOOD THINGS I COULD SAY ABOUT MY RECENT MACBOOK PURCHASE! I AM INLOVE I HAVE WANTED A MACBOOK FOR YEARS AND IT IS EVERYTHING I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE AND MORE!
3|I had purchased the same computer 3 years ago and it crashed. I liked it so much I purchased it again. This time I'm very dissappointed with the MacBook. It runs very slow!!!!
5|this thing is awesome. bought it open box and got a great deal. great computer
5|I am really happy with the product I bought and I am slo happy for my choice!
5|Actually this is my first laptop ever. I bought it based on recommendation of Consumer Reports. Love it, but since I'm not really that good with computers I'm not using its full potential for sure. I had Windows OS for all my computers before, so Mac was a challenge at first, but I'm learning. Bought a mouse to go with it (old habits die hard), but haven't used it because the pad is really all you need, pretty intuitive.
5|My first laptop died on me and have always wanted a Mac. I didn't think that I would love it as much as I do! It has awesome features and runs efficiently. I don't think I will ever buy a new laptop that isn't a Mac from now on!
5|I've been a dedicated PC user for years, and I've heard all the negatives about Apple products, enough that it kept me from even looking at them over the years, though the initial price tag is enough to scare some people away. The hassle I had with Windows 8 was the final straw. I needed something better, something more efficient. I waffled between which Macbook to get, either the Air or the Pro, and I debated on whether or not to get it used. After tons of reading on the matter, I decided to go with a new Pro. From the moment I opened it, set it up (which was a breeze, considering how tech-ignorant I am), I loved it. Since I already had an iPod, I already had an Apple ID (if you don't have one, you will need to create one when you get your mac or any apple product), and it linked automatically to all my other content, and immediately updated itself. The setup was easy, efficient, and didn't require me to jump through a bunch of hoops to get me connected to my other data. The laptop itself has a backlit keyboard that makes writing in the dark or low lit areas so much easier. There is almost no noise when I type, and I type pretty darn fast. The screen is glossy, clear and gives great detail. The machine itself is sturdy without being awkward or cumbersome. And the OS? Responsive and orderly, though if you are new to Mac as I am, there is a small but manageable learning curve. Whether I'm writing papers or my next novel, I am happy with Pages, though I do have the MS Office suite installed. Overall this laptop is way more than I need, and gives me exactly what I want-uncomplicated access to the programs that matter and an OS that doesn't make me hate it. In this Mac I have something that will likely stay with me for years, and I don't see myself regretting it.
5|This is my first Mac and it's the best computer I've ever owned. After taking a free Apple MacBook workshop class I found that using this device is simplicity at it's finest.
5|Great laptop. Great price. Great warranty. Bought this laptop for my daughter for school. Haven't heard from her since. And she is in the next room !!!
4|Little bit heavy compared to Air. Need to get use to it. Nice design to carry. Good Product.
5|So long Microsoft. This computer runs so well the picture is amazing. I'm glad I decided to make the change, especially with the Office 365 foolishness.
3|I loved my original white Macbook. I hate my macbook pro. I couldn't decide between the Macbook Air and the Pro. The store clerks convinced me that the Air had less durability and power. All I can say as I would be willing to sacrifice that durability and power. The MacBook Pro is slow and clunky. I hate it.
5|This is my first Mac laptop and I wish I would have mad the purchase sooner. Fast and sharp would recommend for anyone
5|I have owned 3 of these over time and I love them. This is the only model still available that can be upgraded by the user and I've maxed mine out to 16GB of RAM and added an SSD. It boots in 9 seconds and works amazingly well!
5|Overall I love it. The product itself is great and easy to operate.
5|This works gear for my son's first year of college.
5|Awesome laptop! Easy to carry around. Love it!!!!!
5|User friendly and program compatible. Feel I mmade a great choice.
5|I have enjoyed this 65 inches TV and I have fully programmed all the features
5|The woman who sold me the item was super helpful &amp;amp; I love this item.
5|We don't regret the switch to Mac products. We only wonder why we waited so long to do it. It was a great choice!
5|Of the many laptops I have owned, this one is hands down the best. It's portable, simple to use, and pairs well with other Apple branded products. It has been the smarted laptop purchase we have made.
4|The laptop has a tough body that can handle nicks and dings. I use it as my school laptop so it has to go through the trials and tribulations of a university student. I love how streamlined the laptop is. Over the years my laptop has gotten slower and it takes a bit to boot up programs. However, that is the only con I can find
5|All around the best MacBook for the average user. Still has the superdive and ethernet port. 500GB of HDD storage. RAM upgradeable to 16GB, despite what Apple tells you.
4|Great buy for the price. We upgraded the memory. The wife just absolutely loves this product.
5|I was always afraid to try a Mac but now I'll never go back to windows. Glad I had them load Office so I could do everything I did on my old PC.
5|reliable, fast. Precisely the computer that we were expected.
4|I can brag about how little I spent on this Mac and that it works just as good (if not better) than the brand new Mac I had bought 3 years ago.
5|This is the fifth Mac we have purchased. No regrets.
5|Apple laptops are slightly more expensive then PC but well worth the money. This is the second Apple laptop i've owned in addition to iPhone &amp;amp; an iPad Air
4|Love the sleek look. Very user friendly. Just has some compatibility issues with my videos for school.
5|This is perfect for all of my school needs. I did not know if the transition would be difficult from a windows laptop, but it was sooo user friendly. Do not regret this purchase.
5|My friend bought this laptop cause his old pc broke. He now is update to date in technology and now he officially has the whole Apple suite. The Mac is great, I may get one soon.
5|It is easy to use for any Mac users or new beginners. A lot more sturdier than a Mac Air.
5|I've always liked apple products, from my iPod classic to my iPad. Its fast and a great choice for my studies and hobbies (graphic design and photography)
5|Fits all needs for college work and extra curricular activities.
5|As always this is an amazing product from apple. Would buy
5|Very easy to use. A whole new world on computers. There has been no problems with it.
5|Apple just makes great products. This MacBook is no exception. It's fast and modestly light weight.
5|MacBook Pro's are for everyone from novice to pro!
5|Apple put forth enormous effort into bring us cutting edge products with great style.
5|If you want a laptop that is going to go the distance then the MacBook Pro is the laptop to choose. I used to buy Dell's but got tired of having to replace my machine every 2 years. The Apple computer line is far superior. You pay more for an Apple computer but you get better performance and a overall more user-friendly experience! Once you go MAC you'll never go back!
5|I was looking to upgrade from a 2008 white macbook. Even though it did not have the Retina display, it works perfectly for me. I just use it for browsing on the internet and playing facebook games, so I didn't need top of the line. It was what I needed at a reasonable price.
5|really have loved this computer. Well worth the expense.
5|This TV shows great picture and color. My son was happy with it.
5|I love my first Mac. It goes so well with my iPhone and iPad. It's easy to use.
5|Needed a new computer and very happy with something is of good quality and blends well with iPhone and iPad
5|wonderful, good product, would recommend to a friend
5|Great item! Took a while for me to get but well worth it.
5|Have been wanting a macbook for close ro seven yrs and finally committed!! Worth the wait its amaziiiiing!!!!
5|I've been looking to update my laptop for over three years. I was torn between a MAC and the Surface Pro. After consulting with the sales rep and a few friends, the choice was easy and as you can see the MAC won! This MacBook Pro is the laptop for me.
5|Love the functionality and versatility! It is totally worth the extra $100 bc the cd drive lets you watch movies and do so much more than the air version! I have to order a shell for it! It would be great if the store had them In Stock!
5|i always wanted to have a macbook pro and finally got it
4|So far so good... some things could be more user friendly, but great product so far...
5|Better than expect verry happy whit it fast easy to run
5|Love my mac! It has a great keyboard, easy mouse touch and its fast! Very stylish love it!
5|Love it! And I really happy that I got it for such a reasonable price.
5|I bought this because it was on sale and I wanted a computer. I payed like half price for it
5|I love the Apple computers, they are very reliable! All my three kids have it
5|Process of the purchase was awesome. We purchased the item in Kildeer and the person picked it up in Texas. The product is being used for teaching in Nigeria so the Apple computer was a great buy. Overall a great purchase
3|keyboard is a little small. Hard to make the transition from a PC to MAC. not enough function keys.
5|I am adjusting to the computer. Still have a lot to learn though
5|As a new user, I confess I have not had the opportunity to really educate myself with the Mac in a thorough way. What I have found so far is a machine vastly superior to any other desktop I have ever tried or used. The lighted keyboard is just one of many special touches that makes this a highly desirable product. I know that with further tutorials and practice, I'll be totally glad I switched over from a PC.
5|If you are wanting a computer that is easy to use, and maintain, then Apple's MacPro Book is YOUR computer. I always tell people to move to MacPro for their computer needs. I bought this one for my family because I got tired of hearing them complain about their PC being a piece of junk...well this computer met ALL their needs and surpassed their expectations. Yes, I saved the DAY!!!
5|My wife was looking for a Mac that would handle all of her music and graphic applications, but be small enough to carry around. She is very happy with the purchase, and uses it daily.
5|I like the security from apple, I just love it!!!!
5|The computer is a tough machine. My daughter uses it at college and literally every day all day.
5|I would recommend this product to anyone who is looking for a laptop Apple is a great product !!!!
5|Always loved Apple products, this is a great Lap Top!
5|She (daughter) loves it best lab top ever bought..
5|This computer is the best computer for a college student in graphic design.
4|Great for my first laptop. I am able to download my entire music collection.
4|Bought for the wife who has to have an Apple computer. Got more features for half the money with the HP's I bought for my daughters. Great build quality.
4|Everything is great about the purchase. I am satisfied. The only issue was the salesperson.
5|Good item , as expected, met my expectations........
5|I absolutely love my computer!! It is so easy to maneuver thru.
5|I would recommend this to any laptop buyers for whom price is not an issue. Easy to use for anyone and great hardware gives it a nice feel while using it.
5|Incredible computer. Lightning fast, and can do anything a windows computer can, but much better! It runs Microsoft suite better than all of the HP's and Dell computers I've owned by miles. I am extremely happy, and it's worth the investment. -Graduate with an IT Bachelor's degree and three associate degrees.
5|This is my first macbook ever purchased. I had some hesitations getting this one since the newer model came out. However, I am very satisfied with this one since I don't do any video/photo/music editing on it. As of right now this is just for school and casual web browsing and it is perfect for that. AND it was cheaper than the newer model as well. Sure, this one is not as "good" as the new one but it works for what I have to do. It does get a little slow from time to time but it's not much of an issue for me. If it ever gets to the point where I can't take the lag, I may just upgrade the RAM and switch the HDD to an SSD.
5|Great for college purposes.i love it. Easy to carry.
5|I needed a laptop for college, and this was great, with no viruses
5|I am very happy so far! I have always used a PC, but I am adjusting to the features quite easily! I wish the keyboard keys were a bit more raised...but I can live with them! A very sleek and nice looking laptop!
5|Switched from a pc to a Mac and man this wa me the best choice I've ever made
5|love my iPhone 6.. not to big and not to small.ease to use.
5|Worth Thanksgiving deal ($200 off) for this product. I love Apple products and added this device to my collection. My son is the primary user and uses MacBook Pro extensively for his school projects and for playing games.
5|I purchased this computer then decided I wanted a bigger screen so I took it back and got the 15" screen, love it with i7 processer and solid state hard drive
5|Bought it for a gift and she LOVES it. Easy to use and has so many features. Couldn't be happier!
5|This is my first Laptop. It is easy to use and I can take it any where.
2|This laptop is good for beginners. Awesome machine
5|Best computer I have ever had! User friendly and fast!
5|Awesome Macbook for the price. Great for my photos and schoolwork. This will last me for years.
5|I've been an Windows user my entire adult life and I am so glad that I made the switch to Apple. I was always hesitant to leave my beloved PC's but now I understand what all the hype is about. Apple products are well made, secure and operate at a high level. I have not experienced any lag, security breaches or the typical problems that I experienced on Windows. I thought the Mac would be hard to use, but in reality it is very intuitive and designed for ease of use. The UI is truly a pleasure to work with. I would recommend any Apple products. I already own an iPod and will eventually switch from my Android phone to a iPhone in the near future. Thanks Apple for proving that sometimes you have to pay more to get more quality.
5|I love my Mac book pro. It fits all of my needs and is easy to use
5|My laptop is awesome! Very satisfied with my purchase
5|Excellent computer, specially for me that I was used to Microsoft, strongly recommend putting more ram and HD. Upgraded my HD for 2tb and Ram 8gb
5|apple products are always top notch. another happy apple customer
4|I haven't used my computer very much but so far I like it.
5|I'm not a proficient computer user, but this one is fairly easy to use.
4|Mac computers are always the best. It runs great and fast
5|I've been shopping for a new laptop and have been a long time desktop user. After hours and hours of research and reading reviews I took the leap and bought a Macbook. I'm so glad I did. It was a bit tricky figuring out how to use a Mac after all these years with Microsoft. There are plenty of help blogs to assist. My next big challenge is Numbers! I'm very happy with my Macbook.
5|So nice that this Apple Mac Pro still has a DVD drive.
5|Great .............................................
4|After being a Windows laptop users for decades, I just got a MacBook Pro in December 2014. So amazing and yet I am still in a learning status. I really like the ease to grab it and go without a power cord as I travel, sit in a meeting, at home, at the office, wherever. So easy to have it available and ready to use. It is a whole new world for me.
5|Is different from what I had before but I like it.
5|love the way it is set up and that I can play cd's
4|I am so happy I bought this product. I have never been more satisfied with any other laptop. I am new to apple and I dont think I will ever go back to pc.
5|The computer was easy to set up and to sync with my Ipad4-RD and Iphone6. The size is perfect with the CD Rom, and has been very useful for the business activities that I undertake everyday.
4|The Macbook Pro is an excellent improvement over Apple's last venture. Graphics are crisp and the improvement in speed and performance is noticeable.
5|My Mac is wonderful. I love it. I was skeptical at first but it was a good purchase.
5|Quick and easy buy. For daughter. ................
5|This is the best computer I have ever brought! Love
5|This is my second MacBook Pro. It is wonderful.. I had purchased a Asus Window 8 computer and returned it the next day. Didn't like it and it was not as easy as the Mac is. I will always stay with Mac.s
5|As a recent college graduate I needed a laptop for my personal and professional career. All my life I was a windows guy but after some experience with my friends mac I decided it was time to change and try something new. I will tell you I made the best decision ever. My macbook pro is so much faster and smoother than my old pc. It runs office 2011 which is kind of old but still it keeps up to date with all thee new features from office 2013 available for pc. Don't let yourself hesitate in buying this laptop because of the compatibility issues. Trust me, 95% of the programs out there are now available for both windows and mac OS. I'm delighted with the product and actually it is physically more attractive than any other laptop out there if you take that into account.
4|i bought this for my daughter to use in college and she was very happy with it. it seems to be doing the job nicely.
5|This laptop is perfect! I compared it to the other MacBooks and I prefered this one because it is the only one that still come with the built in optical drive. I don't want to have to carry around a separate drive with my laptop and I have CDs that I like to listen to. I am new to the Apple family and so far I am glad that I made the switch.
5|Got this to replace a 10 year old ibook. Awesome Great price on sale Well worth the upgrade
5|we went back in forth in trying to decide to go with a Mac or stick with the other and we're finally convinced with the security on the devise and the fact that you can still get Word and all the others for Mac. There is absolutely a learning curve in the use as compared, but so far so good!
5|I bought this MacBook to replace an aging ThinkPad R61 and so far it has been an awesome computer. I upgraded the hard drive to 1TB and RAM to 16GB and it is everything that I could want in a laptop computer. This has been an excellent entrance into the world of OS X and Yosemite has made this computer even better.
4|This is my first experience with a Mac vs. Windows. There are quite a few differences from my old computer but I'm sure once I get used to the changes, I will like the Mac better than Windows. The differences make sense, I just have to get used to them. I would recommend this product.
2|Was looking for a new laptop and decided to get this one because of all the great reviews. But I was very disappointed with it. After only 10 mins, the laptop got very HOT. For a brand new $1,000+ laptop I expected it to not get so hot so quickly. The thing that annoyed me the most about this macbook was the screen clarity. Pictures weren't as clear as on my other laptop. The text is blurry looking and gave me a headache. The 13.3" screen is also way too small. This laptop is also waaay overpriced for the specs. Don't understand the hype about it at all. It went back to the store!
4|Very good computer. Coming from a Windows lap top to a Mac takes a little getting use to but otherwise a good computer
4|i like this apple Laptop . I'm use it good and I'm love it
3|Option are limited if you need a mac laptop with a disc drive. Not as bright as I wanted but I use an external display
5|I am enjoying the work that I can produce on this device.
5|The MacBook Pro is an awesome computer. It is very easy to use, and offers everything I need it for. It is lightweight, powerful, and looks great.
5|Compact power... outstanding performance... a unit that doesn't feel cheap and plastic. Sure, it's a bit pricier than a pc but a MAC is worth the extra in my opinion.
5|Bought the older version for my wife because it had more storage for less price than the newer ones. Not as fast as my retina display MacBook Pro, but still a good machine
5|Easy and lightweight. Prefect for college assignments
4|This is a great laptop for someone who is just beginning to use Mac. It has all the features and power to do everyday tasks and performs well under light work conditions. The screen size is excellent for travelers who need a good laptop that will last several hours without a charge.
5|I have never owned a Mac before and I found this computer incredibly user friendly. It does take a little while to get accustomed to the mousepad (there is no right click) but once you get that down it is easy peasy.
5|Connects with my phone. Does everything I want! Definitely great!
5|I'm a full time college student and this computer is great for it!
5|CD selection was well stocked and organized. Enjoying CD every day
5|GF, likes the macbook. She does mostly school stuff and it handles everything just fine.
5|There is nothing about this computer I don't like. It is my fourth one. My original one is going strong since 2009. I bought this one to get more memory and updated hardware. I bought one for my wife and one for my daughter. to use in college.
4|This computer is very fast and easy to figure out and operate
5|I was a pc user and decided to make the leap to mac. Took a little bit of getting use to but I will never go back. I love my MacBook pro!!
4|I really like the computer. It works well and is useful for what I needed it for. I haven't had any problems at all!
5|My first macbook pro and I couldn't be more happy!
5|As always the best and the most secure Laptops and operating system. Period. Ease of use even for the PC convert or for the first timer. Best on the market in MY opinion.
5|This is our second macBook Pro and we love it. The only issue has been the need to replace chargers more than once. They don't seem to be as durable and reliable as the laptop.
5|I was hesitant to switch to a Mac, but as soon as I began using it I feel in love. Faster than a PC.
5|I have been extremely pleased with my Mac In my humble, but correct opinion... nothing beats a Mac. Yes i've owned a boat load of PC's but returned to my first love.
5|This laptop easy to use, has lots of storage and is great size. Thanks.
5|I'm very happy with my purchase. This was for my son and I was able to get a very good value for the amount of money I was willing to spend.
5|I love my macbook!!! I was hesitant to spend the extra money, but it is well worth it! Easy to set up and it automatically updated everything. I am very happy with the product! I'm a junior college student and this is excellent! I did have windows 8 but Apple always knows how to win over new customers.
5|I know isn't the newer retina model but does have advantage of more storage. Runs Fast and Downloads are simple and fast.
5|Of all the laptops I've had this undoughtable the best on the market
5|MacBook pro 13 with DVD player it's the best laptop in the market , switching from windows itsnt been to bad it's really ease and good quality ..
5|Although a MacBook is expensive, they are well worth the money. The 13.3 inch display is not too big or heavy to carry around a college campus and is not so small that it is hard to see or use. It is super fast and performs wonderfully. It's an investment that I would definitely recommend.
5|Apple computer has been easy to learn to run and have enjoyed this purchase
5|The Apple MacBook Pro has many features and capabilities that you won't find on any other device. I absolutely love my MacBook Pro.
4|This is an excellent laptop for use by college student. Small, lightweight and powerful.
5|I love my MacBook pro is great and easy to use I definitely recommend
5|Love the Mac book! I should of switched from a pc years ago.
5|It works better than any computer I have ever had.
4|Awesome product but i went and bought the retina display instead.
5|This is a great computer. Its great for our student.
5|I have wanted a MacBook Pro for several years now! So glad I finally made the purchase. It is the most efficient laptop I have ever had. It is everything it's hyped up to be. Love it!!!!
5|I love this MacBook Pro so much, I bought my wife one too! Easy to use and super fast.
5|this is my four laptop and my first apple laptop and i am very happy
5|Been nursing a 5 yr old Dell Laptop with windows 7 pro , I refused wasting any money upgrading to a windows 8 or beyond computer &amp;amp; figured on using the old dell till it died . Then Christmas morn Santa brought me a Macbook Pro , Night &amp;amp; Day difference . Good Luck Billy Gates with Windows 10 .
5|Love, Love, Love this Mac Book Pro! Bought it for my daughter. It will come in handy for Grad school! She loves it!
4|Everything I thought it was going to be... Solid, reliable laptop that's great for personal and business use
5|Great computer. Not the latest and greatest but works just fine for the average user.
5|I purchased this mac book for my teenager and she absolubtly loves it
5|Great Computer love Macs. Works great and so happy.
5|Excellent Service with our purchase. Technician gave us some helpful tips (since I'm a PC kinda gal). The macbook pro has been fantastic for my daugther's homework, it has an ideal size and is not too bulky.
5|Great product, great service! Definitely recommend
5|Excellent computer that is easy to use. It has a lot of cool built in apps.
1|Found 3 dead pixels on the screen, i was told that this was the standard, unnaceptable!
5|got this mac during black friday for hundreds of dollars less than usual. great deal
1|I am so disappointed with my new computer. It is so slow. Much slower than my old Mac.
5|Christmas gift for my wife, she loved it. Easy to use, powerful enough to handle her needs!
5|Have been wanting a laptop for a long time and finally took the plunge and bought one. This is a great laptop to start with. I have all apple products so it's nice that all of my apple items are linked together. Sufficient memory to start out. Easy set up. For the difference in price, the MacPro offers faster processor and more standard memory than the air. Yes, it's heavier but I feel it was worth the cost.
5|Bought a MacBook pro out of box and it is great! Only problem was that the salesman told me with a Mac you don't need antivirus, well within a month of owning it, I got a virus and had to drop a lot of money to clean it and install antivirus software.
5|I was a PC user for several years before switching over to a Mac. I was surprised by how easy it was to switch and I am really happy with the performance of the machine.
5|Everything I expected. No issues. Would buy again.
5|The Macbook Pro was exactly what I needed in a new laptop. It syncs well with my phone and does everything I need.
5|Bought the MacBook Pro for my daughter for Christmas. She is graduating in May and will be going off to college. This product has been exactly what she wanted and needs to finish up high school and prepare for college...oh, and watch Netfilx, of course. lol
5|Very good product, must buy an office if you need it. Otherwise ir came with the minimum things
4|Nice computer for the money. Will use it for my business
5|Can you really ever go wrong with a Mac? From just opening the box, I was in love and it's been a great laptop.
5|Great Mac, in the first place I was want to buy Mac book pro air, but I'm hapy I didn't, because itc great to have cd rom and sd card reader...recommend to everyone:)
5|Can't go wrong with the quality of a MacBook. This was the least expensive one in the lineup, but still plenty of power.
5|The laptop was easy to set up and get running. The installation process for Microsoft office was just as easy.
4|Brought this as a gift for my wife, she loves it. It is a decent, cool features and easy to go.
5|It's so easy to use and get used to. I love it. I can pretty much do everything i want on it. A big upgrade compared to my last computer.
5|Before I made the descision to switch to a Mac I had gone through 4 other laptops. From wires melting from overheating, to screens just crapping out to chargers not working. I had been through it all. I am so impressed with Mac and love their products! Would definitely tell my friends to buy one when the time comes!
5|My 1st MacBook n I feel in love so much easier coming from a PC I thank my sales person who helped me .
5|Best thing I have done was to purchase this...highly recommended
5|It is very light and the perfect size for college. I take it everywhere.
5|Once you get used to the difference, it is amazing, powerful tool
5|At first was I was skeptical about a MacBook, being I was used to a PC. I really enjoyed the new things Apple has to offer
4|I like the new features of the Pro over the Mac Book
5|Can't believe I waited so long to get it. It was more than obvious how a great product Apple Mac is. Extremely complete.
5|My daughter loves her new computer. Compatible with school computers so it makes homework easy. Love our purchase!
4|Very efficient laptop. Such a good investment! Love everything about it. Since I have an iPhone and iPad, it is very convenient to sync all data I have and access them.
5|i am enjoying the computer .It is easy to use a mac after using an Ipad.
5|this is a good computer for me because its faster than another production
5|i received this laptop as a gift for christmas. the screen and laptop itself are both really nice, and even though it isn't as light as i thought it would be its still compact for carrying in a backpack. this is the first mac computer that i have owned so it was different trying to adjust coming from a windows pc, but now i much prefer the mac settings. overall, this is a really nice computer for students.
5|bought it for my high school Junior son, great tool for his education and also entertainment.
5|She has found some many useful features a must for Mac lovers
5|works as described. did not have purple ones as posted on the sale page.
5|I should have switched to Apple Macbook pro a long time ago. Love the simplicity of the operating system.
1|Ordered a MacBook Pro as an Open Box item. The description indicated in was in EXCELLENT condition, 2.6 Mhz processor with 500Gb of memory. The MacBook Pro received was a 2009 model, with a 2.3 Mhz processor and 120gb of memory, a virus, no access to FaceTime or the Apple store and was clearly NOT in excellent condition considering the plethora of scratches on it. The technician, as well as, the customer service clerk attempted to convince me the reason the process and memory indicated different was because the machine had not been cleaned and had a virus. After several minutes of trying to explain a virus does not change the stated # of processing Mhz, I refused the machine and demanded an immediate refund.
5|It is a great laptop for my daughter who is in her second Year of college.
4|Nice laptop at bit pricy. Would be nice if excel and word came with it. That is another big expence
4|Beautiful color of pictures. Gave four only bc it gets slow at times.
5|Really nice computer. Everything about it is quality. Nice software too. After one month, no complaints. Very pleased.
5|The Apple MacBook Pro can't be beat. They work so well and last a long time. Easy to use as well.
4|I'm a student and I would recommend the Mac book pro to anyone, it's good for travel and the speed of it is excellent
5|Very happy with the speed and clarity. I would recommend this product to everyone!
5|This is one of the best laptops I have owned. High powered and FAST! Boot up time is a little longer than expected, but it could be because I have several accounts that are actively used on this device. The primary use for this PC is for DJING using DJ mixer boards and equipment.
5|Easy ordering online and fast shipping and delivery. Everything went smoothly
5|Bought this for our 13-year-old daughter for Christmas. She loved it and we like the option of the CD drive that came with it. She loves to make YouTube videos and loves the iMovie that's installed on the computer.
4|It's quick and efficient. Taking some time to get familiar with Apple but overall happy with the purchase
5|i just got my first one and wow such a great experience, so many new things to explore
4|It has a traditional drive (mechanical) and only 4GB in RAM, but you can upgrade it up to 16GB in RAM and add a SSD drive for maximum performance.
5|great laptop, an overall performance make it one of the best laptop around.
5|This laptop is so great! Very efficient and I've had no problems with it.
5|Didn't know if I would like the Mac but it seems so seamless when using other Apple devices even works easier with other devices like printers. Great investment highly recommend brings back the enthusiasm when pcs were new.
5|I am very happy with my macbook pro. only thing I think I would have done was buy it with flash memory instead. overall the computer runs great and does what I need it for.
5|I've always bought Microsoft computers. Even with Antivirus, spyware, etc. they always crashed. I love this Mac. No crashes still over a month later!
5|This is my 6th Apple computer in over 20 years and my second laptop. I really like Apple products and this was a great buy. All my Apple computers have worked well and I have no doubt this one will continue that tradition.
4|its really worth for money and price. Also its very stylish
5|Light, dependable, an excellent product, quick upload, service good.
2|Came with 4 GB memory and MAC's activity monitor show 3.9 GB being use when idle. My first Apple product and I'm very surprised with the performance. Took it to the The Apple store (Genius Bar) and they find no issues.
5|Another great Apple product. Purchased two for my daughters and there have been no issues and they love them.
5|Got this for my wife because she was always having issues with her PC and I was having to fix the darn PC. So now we are both happy!
5|NONSTOP USE FOR COLLEGE ONLINE CLASSES, THE BEST. EASY NAVIGATION, FAST, I DO EVERYTHING ON IT, PRICE WAS GOOD, A VERY GOOD PURCHASE, IT HAS EVERYTHING I NEED, AND RIGHT AT MY FINGERTIPS.
5|I bought this laptop for my 13 year old daughter for Christmas. It is easy to use if you are familiar with Apple products.
4|Like usual, Apple comes out with great products and this one is no exception. I updated it to Yosemite and it has some great features. My husband hooked it up to his iPhone and now he gets his phone updates on the computer. One downside besides the expense, we had to update our printer's software to connect it to this computer and it now won't print in grayscale anymore. Very strange and annoying.
5|Amazing product - I'm so satisfied with my purchase, worth every dollar.
5|Great notebook computer. Suits my needs and does even more.
4|For an open item it runs good.. Except someone's account is still on there
5|The brand speaks for itself. The laptop definitely lives up to our expectations.
5|I am a PC user. This is my first Mac computer. I love it! I will never go back.
5|I got 2 Mac Book pro for my sons for Christmas. One will use it for business, the other for film making. I was pleased that this model still had a built in DVD drive and upgradable memory. The Mac Book Pros with Retina screens do not have these capabilities.
5|Love MacBooks and apple customer care. leaves the others in the dust. Previous macs lasted a long time and never had any problems.
4|The only version that still reads/writes cd/dvd. Needed that. This laptop replaced a ten yr old PowerBook. I expect this MacBook to do just as well. Feels sturdy but lightweight enough for me to pick up &amp;amp; go. Had a couple of small issues with the preinstalled Guitarband and the Help window not working properly. Trashed Guitarband and installed an updated version. Help window screen problem was unusual, somehow using the help window affected the way all other screens were functioning (they wouldn't come forward when clicked). Apple Support helped and both issues were resolved with a few tweaks. All good now!
5|Love it! The display is crisp, 4GB ram makes it fast. I like the ability to add memory if I feel it needs more. But so far its fine like it is. Love having the cd-drive. I didn't want to purchase and haul the additional piece of hardware ,such as external cd drive.
5|It's a nice product. excellent Mac! Highly recommended!
5|Very good laptop. Bought during Black Friday and was a terrific deal.
4|One of the best laptop I ever had. Very user friendly.
5|He cannot seem to get enough of this game. Really loves it.
5|I absolutely love it ...syncs amazingly with my iPhone where I can even see my messages while I work on stuff So easy to use and great features!!!!
5|This computer has done everything that I have ask of it. It is the best purchase I have made.
4|My first Mac. It is OK but not too big surprise. The keyboard is a little delayed.
5|My daughter is a Mass Communications major and needed a Mac to get the best results for the programs used in her classes. She was so excited about the gift and ready to use the AvidPro.
5|I love MacBook Pro computers! I had a MacBook Pro for approximately four years before I replaced it with this one and had no problems. I could be a cheerleader for this product!
5|Very satisfied with product and the customer service was great
5|Had always heard Mac users brag about Mac's superiority to PC, but never really understood all the bluster. Then, a couple of years ago, Someone who understands computer-eze told me that Mac software is more "intuitive" the Windows/Microsoft. Now I know what they meant!!! No more crashes, no more inscrutable error messages, no more waiting around for the computer to take it's next step. The higher price of an Apple is well worth the freedom from exasperation my PC's gave me the last 20+ years!!
5|Lighting fast and easy to use. Light weight and great screen resolution
4|i was at a point of indecision trying to get a computer for my wife and i got great assistance from the sales rep.
5|Great computer. Who doesn't love a Mac? It's made my daughter a very happy person.
5|Love my new MacBook Pro So much better than what I had.
5|The best laptop computer! Excellent for school!!!!
5|We use these MacBook Pros mostly because of their quality hardware components. We install various boot environments such as Mac and Windows which function flawless. This is the last version of the MacBook Pro that you can upgrade yourself; we install 16GB of ram and 1TB s solid state drives -- fantastic!
5|I bought it for my girlfriend and she absolutely loves it. Only wish I had bought it sooner for her.
4|Enjoyed the functionality of this product. Great performance thus far.
5|It was time for a new computer and I was familiar with MacBooks at work. I was hesitant because of the price. I am so glad I went ahead with this purchase. This laptop is fast and easy to operate. I'm still learning all the things this computer can do. MacBook Pro beats every other computer I've ever had. Being wireless, I can access the internet anywhere in my home. Recommend highly!
5|This is by far the best laptop I have ever owned. The Smoothness of how it operates is beautiful. I am definitely hooked on Apple computers but still hate their phones.
5|Love this product!!! I haven't had any problem. Grea buy.
5|I've had this computer for about a month. I bought it during the Black Friday sale because it was sold at a great price. Since I'm not use to using a MAC, it will take me a moment to learn the ins and outs of the computer to become proficient. Luckily, it has tutorials to help me get started. The tutorials appeared shortly after registering the computer. I hope to get some free time soon to get started. So far I liked what was illustrated in the tutorial that discussed the computers capabilities. It has a lot of great features such as, reducing the size of a file to send it out to another user. The only limitation is it can only be sent to another MAC user or to a user that is using the program that reduced the file size. Please do not quote me on this feature. This is was I recall reading in the tutorial and I read it a couple of weeks ago.
5|Decided to buy a lighter laptop for school and I had to stick with the MacBook Pro again because it was a great investment. I've had my previous MacBook Pro for many years and it's still in great condition and running well.
5|i always owned a windows computer until i bought an iPhone then an iPad mini and now i bought a mac and this is THE BEST computer i have ever used, seriously. It is extremely easy to get used to and navigate. I am extremely pleased with my purchase. The battery lasts me all day long and it rarely gets warm underneath like my other computers do. It is also extremely silent and i absolutely love that i always hated hearing my computers fan so annoying. I also love how I'm able to iMessage on my Mac too. Everyone should have a mac! :)
5|This computer is very user friendly and is easy to tote around
4|The product its amazing...The software,the hardware is absolutely smashing....great usability and very easy to handle and is also fashionable
5|Very helpful sales associate. Glad we purchased greed squad protection
5|It was time to upgrade. The price on this was the right place at the right time.
5|I got this computer for my wife and it was a bit slow to start with, but the best thing about this older version of Mac is you can upgrade the memory yourself without having to go through a liscensed apple store. I upgraded her memory with 16gb RAM and its as speedy as any new computer, love having a disc drive and screen is just fine, do not need a retina. Great buy.
5|This is my second lap top and is the best for the features.
5|Very easy to set up and use out of the box. Has all the bells and whistles.
4|Enjoying my laptop and works fantastic. It's fast And reliable
5|I bought this to replace my old computer when support for Windows XP was ending. It's connected to my tv and used to stream Netflix and Hulu along with internet usage. It's a wonderful computer and so small and quiet. I am very happy with it!
5|We bought a MacBook Pro for our daughter and she loved it. So we bought another one for our son. Apple makes the best products. Period.
4|MacBook Pro fits my needs at home. Still learning as I am a windows user at work for the past 25 years. Happy to find the assistance built into this computer.
5|Best Christmas gift ever. It's perfect for school.
5|Got this for my 14 year old and she is very happy. She is a shutterbug and is enjoying the speed and ease of bringing in her photos. It is a great introduction into the world of Mac.
5|The only reason I had to replace my old MacBook Pro is because it was stolen. I purchased my first MBP in 2010 and it still worked as well as the day I purchased it. I used it extensively for video and photo editing. I had two children since I purchased it and they've stood on it, dropped it, hit it...and it still worked great after so long. Many PC laptops and desktops are so obsolete after 4-5 years unless you do some exhaustive updates and it may even require paying someone else to wipe it. The mac updates were simple, easy and done all by myself. I couldn't recommend it better! MBP's are all i'll buy from now on.
5|Our Son and Grandson received Apple Lap Tops and our Grand-daughter requested a Dell or HP for Christmas and she received the HP, they were very pleased and appreciative. I Thank God for their Blessings and always providing. It's nice to see smiles on the faces of others...
4|Purchased laptop for son in college. He loves it and uses it daily.
5|I purchased this laptop about two months ago. It is working well. It does take a long time to start up, but after that it works just fine. The battery last for a long time.
4|A very nice laptop but I am not thrilled with the operating system so far. Lonetime PC user
5|Bought this for my 9 year old son for Christmas for a great price on Black Friday! He wanted a laptop to start his future as a youtuber doing video game reviews and it has been amazing so far. So easy to setup and start using right away. Apple products have never let us down!
4|We are new in Mac laptops and so far so good. It's really easy to get used to it. The laptop arrived in the expected time.
5|Starting up was somewhat cumbersome. However, one up and running, it worked like a charm. Continues to do so. This is my sixth Mac.
4|I have always been a PC guy. Bought this on a whim and pleasantly surprised. It works like a charm. It is a little on the heavy side, but perfectly ok.
4|I really like this Mac. My only complaint is that it takes 2 min to start up.
5|I got this Mac for my wife as a xmas gift and she loves it, she uses it for personal use and work and no problem, got 6 months free of webroot with it also, i would recommend it to anybody
5|Great working computer. I love my macbook and my sister loves hers as well.
5|I purchased MacBook Pro as my kids often have to make videos for their school project. They tell me that MacBook is user friendly and easy to create and edit their videos. Their video quality is definitely improved.
5|It's a great laptop. I think a little pricey still but most definitely less complicated than a Windows.
5|I'm an apple fan. I have a desktop and after going through 5 or 6 Microsoft laptops in the last few years , i finally gave up and bought an Apple Mac book pro what a difference..I love it will never go back
5|after 3 PC laptops crashed on her in 5 years, she got one of these macbooks and hasnt looked back. excellent quality.
5|First apple product and extremely satisfied! Compact, light and powerful!
5|I really enjoy my MacBook pro. Loving it so much!!!!
5|Only bad part is that the laptop is a little heavy sometimes, but it's beautiful and clean looking. Very fast processing system. Would recommend. I'm never going back to a PC!
5|Daughter loved it!!! Great product ... She's on it constantly lol
5|easy to use, fast and great for students comes with everything you need
5|This is the 4th apple computer I've had, and loved everyone of them. More than enough power with great synchronization with apple iPhones.
5|I absolutely love this computer. It is very easy to use and is excellent for my school work.
5|Love it, can't complain. Works great, reasonably priced for the Apple producfs
5|A great computer everything I was looking for would recommend
4|I love my laptop! Good size and quality! A bit too heavy! Works perfect!
5|I have nothing negative to say except I was a bit disappointed the salesperson did not honor the discounted price on the warranty that was offered online.
4|I'm still having some issues with email not wanting to come thru on my suddenlink account.....but I can go online to their site and get my email.
5|Having had a larger MacBook Pro in the past, it's great to now have a smaller version of the same great laptop.
5|Bought is for my daughter this Christmas and she loves it.
5|Got this for my wife she absolutely loves it. Love al the features
5|Good computer for the price. I can link all my apple products. No problems.
4|Great to edit video on location, powerful and long lasting battery. Its a bit heavier compared with similar sized laptops, but is thougher also.
5|I love our first Apple laptop. It is sooo easy to use.
5|Bought one for the wife last year. She loves it! Had to buy one for the daughter this year. They both are very pleased with their MBPs.
1|This was a gift for my daughter and she absolutely loves it.
5|I purchased a Toshiba Radius and a MacBook pro for my wife and we are very pleased with the products respectively.
5|Apple products rock! Having an iphone too helps with creating videos!!
5|This computer has worked flawlessly since we purchased it. Excellent service and very user friendly!
5|I'm totally satisfied with my purchase , even more my daughter is ecstatic about it. I think it is a great value for the technology !
4|great product took some getting used to New to the whole apple products
5|very satisfied. using in college and has the speed I was looking for.
5|i love my mac book pro. I've been waitng to get it since a year ago.
5|I really like the Mac book. It is an excellent product for an excellent price. I recommend this to anyone who has a small business. It is very practical.
4|Great service in southern pines nc Had to ask for nothing just describe my needs
5|My best gift ever...thanks mom&amp;amp;dad I can do so much w/my MacBook
5|I am absolutely satisfied with my new laptop. I would recommend this to my friends. In fact I own a Mac pro before 250 g and I gave it to my son as a Christmas gift. He' s joy and excitement is priceless.
5|MacPro is very easy to learn with the classes available through Apple
5|Great computer. It's easy to set up and syncs to the rest of the Apple products we own.
5|I am enjoying my first experience owning and operating a Mac computer. It is fairly easy to learn to use. Every day I learn something new. I will definitely recommend the MacBook Pro.
5|Apple makes the best computers, hands down, no questions asked.
4|Works as advertised. This is my second Mac Book Pro.
5|This is my second Mac! LOVE them and the ease of using apple products! Would only ever consider this type of product in the future!
5|i wanted a Mac for awhile but waited to buy it until it was on sale before Christmas. It is a learning curve going from a PC, but so far I love it!
5|Our 34 year old daughter loves Apple products and her wish for Christmas was this computer. She could not be happier.
5|Excellent laptop easy to setup and great battery life
5|I am pleased with this laptop. It is small and lightweight yet durable. It does all that my desktop does and much smaller. So it is exactly what I needed.
5|I totally love my mac book pro. I didn't get the newer model with retina display, but this one works for me.
5|I love the Mac Book Pro. Wasn't sure at first. But glad I made the choice. :)
5|Seems to be as advertised, no complaints about this product.
5|Great service from the staff and they answered all my questions
5|Best service and quality. Purchase even arrived early!
5|My daughter used it and she like it good for school work.
5|Love this computer. Easy to use and has everything I need. Only issue is that it is heavy.
4|This MacBook Pro is everything I wanted and more!!
5|The MacBook Pro has done everything I have asked so far. I am still on the learning curve, but I am enjoying its capabilities and its portability. I have managed to install software I am comfortable with, and expect to do much much more.
5|This is the "laptop" that I have been waiting years to buy. Excellent product
5|Macbook Pro Rocks.. no viruses bye bye PC. Nice and sleek
5|My brother loves his mac. I would buy another one.
5|An elegant and efficient laptop........though a bit expensive
5|My daughter loves her Mac pro! She was very surprised that she got it. Very pleasantly surprised. Awesome purchase
5|The apple macbook pro is definitely a great, quality laptop.
5|We have three children in junior high school. All of them have online school work every night. We bought an Apple Mac Book Pro last year for one a PC laptop crashed for good. The results were great....we bought two more this year.
5|This is my first Mac (except for a Macintosh desktop way back 20 years ago). I got tired of crashing Windows laptops. I am very impressed. Will never go back to Windows if I can help it.
5|I used to be a Windows-holic, but now that I have purchased this Macbook Pro, I will be never be going back. So much easier to use, and many programs that you have to purchase for Windows is already included with the Mac OS. Very easy to learn, and trust me, you won't want to go back either.
5|Easy to use. Compatible with other Apple products. Great PC
5|there was so creaking when moving the lid for putting the computer to sleep and turning it on
4|I don't know the words to say but its a great product. My daughter likes it.
5|This is the fourth MacBook pro in our family. It is our go to laptop for our college kids.
5|This computer is my second purchase since i am in love wiht apple products. They last for so long and are efficient. I really recommend this product.
5|I was searching to replace my 5 year old Asus laptop running Windows 7. I have always had PC in the past. I bought my wife a Toshiba with Windows 8 last year which turned out to be a nightmare. I decided to give Mac a try knowing it couldn't possibly be any worse than Win 8. The ease of this operating system is quite amazing. I knew more about this computer within a few days than I have in a year with Win 8. I really like the 3 finger swipe to switch between open programs. The performance exceeds my needs. It is mainly used for streaming movies, music, internet, and lots of powerpoint/word-processing as I am also a student. This has everything that I need. After 2 months of use I still see only 1 downside to this computer and that is the lack of a calculator style number layout on the right of the keyboard. Very easy to overlook considering all the other advantages of the MacBook.
5|Very happy with the quality and spped of my laptop.
4|The remote worked well from day one, however you have to hold it in front of your devices for a few seconds for the signal to register. The other issue is ensuring you set certain devices to stay on like the cable box.
5|Ease of carrying this amount of storage and power is amazing.
5|This my 3rd Mac. I have bought one for each of my kids as they have needed them for school. I don't have any issues performance wise like I do with PCs.
5|Fast shipping, Lap top was easy to set up. My 14 year old was able to set up independently. If anyone has owned an Apple product you will already know the quality of their products. I have purchased many other computers from top sellers however all my Apple products has exceeded my expectations.
5|Love the look of the laptop and it's light weight. Super easy to use and has incorporated some Windows features familiar to myself. Recommended!
3|Really good laptop kinda hard to use at 1st coming from a pc but so much faster
5|Great product I just up graded from my mid 2012 model
5|This is a very nice and convenient laptop. There are a lot of features I have still yet to explore.
5|I had been saving to purchase this laptop for a while and I never took the plunge until I found the Black Friday deal. The less-than-$900 price just couldn't be beat. Besides that, this laptop is fabulous and is everything I already knew it was. The shipping was quick, since I opted for expedited shipping; the packaging was very neat and sturdy as well. The delivery is very reliable due to a signature being required and constant email and text updates being available.
4|During my purchase, an anti virus was promised to me but I never received it. That why I gave a 4 instead of a 5
5|My daughter has been very pleased with it. The only downside has been that her older Canon B/W printer/copier/scanner didn't have drivers for a Mac OS so we had to buy a new printer. This is not a MacBook problem but keep in mind there may be compatibility issues with older hardware compared to a Windows laptop.
5|I ordered my new mac book on Black Friday rather than going to the store, This was great! I love my new mac book and I have no complaints!
3|Just what my daughter needed to get her started!!!
5|we are a family of 4, 3 of us have made the switch to a mac book pro since 2012; its a good laptop at a decent price.
5|I enjoy using my new mac notebook. Downloaded all my music. Use it for all my homework.
5|Laptop is excellent for a student. Lightweight and has the power and storage needed for a student
5|This is a great computer for the person who has to carry around a laptop everywhere. Long battery life. Fast processor. Super light. And great design. Plus, I got a great deal for Black Friday!
4|Absolutely love my new Mac vs my old HP laptop. Still struggle with the mouse and the laptop is a bit heavier than I was expecting, but otherwise I love it!
4|Always reliable device. Replacing a pc. We are Apple product faithful.
4|Mac book pro is a nice laptop . It's rowburst and nice looking one . I am leally enjoy to open th book. Thank you very much for the deal you gave me .
5|I actually bought this MacBook Pro for my mom. She absolutely loves it! She had a different MacBook that was about 5 years old, and this new one is faster and easy to use and has such a crisp picture! I love Apple products! Would highly recommend this over a pc any day!
5|I was looking for an improvement for a lab top. I have always had a dell i felt it was time for a change and iam so glad that i finally gave in to the apple products. I would recommend apple to anyone that is looking for a much faster and user friendly lab top
5|Great product!!!!!! My wife love it !!!! Elegant !!
5|I love my new computer! I would recommend this computer!
5|Great price for the freedom of carrying my graphic design projects with me!
5|I have 4 of these units!! They are fast, smooth, and have just the right components to make my business flow and personal navigation easy.
4|At first I was sure to get it or not.. but I'm glad I did work s great and easy to use
5|This was a great purchase for my teenager and hope that it will take her into the first year of college.
5|I have had window laptop forever. I am very excited to begin using the MacBook. Thus far it has exceeded my expectations. The proof will be when I install Office.
3|Black friday special made this the best Comp is really worth the money
5|Bought as Christmas gift for my teenage daughter. It easily fits into her backpack and the high school has wifi so it is VERY useful. I don't have to nag her to do her homework. She used a PC before and finds the Mac is highly reliable and easy to use. No more "lost" files!
5|Helpful staff members and they know about computer
5|Great price, runs smoothly, easy to use as well. I would highly recommend anyone to purchase this laptop if they as going to school or just for personal usage.
5|I bought this for school after having a previous Macbook Pro (which still works after 8 years). I wanted something lighter and thought I'd try out the Macbook Air. It is such a great investment! Quick speeds and lots of storage. Great battery life for having classes for 8 hours a day.
5|This was my first macbook and it has exceeded my expectations. I dont think I can go back to the other competitor products
5|Love the size of the screen and the computer itself. Graphics are great!
5|This is my son's first own mac. We like it over the newer ones because of the cd capabilities, it is fast and reliable for the purposes of a high school student. Great mac!!!
4|Needed this for graphic arts, almost required for some of my classes. This is the second one I've owned. Does all I need, just hope this one lasts me longer.
5|I finally gave in an bought myself a mac and i love it! its so easy to use and has great features!
4|If you're used to having a Mac computer then you'll love this one! My only issue is that it seems really heavy!!
5|I received my new MacBook Pro as a gift and love it! My previous one (my first MacBook Pro) is an older 15" model, so I was already used to the Apple environment. I had and additional 4GB of memory added (total of 8GB now), and am vey pleased with the performance and ease of use. Adapting to the smaller 13" display has been easy.
5|I am so glad we choose to go with a MacBook-Our family had switched all electronics to Apple!
5|I've wanted a MacBook for a while and finally purchased one on Black Friday for a great deal! Wish I would've bought it sooner
5|I bought the MacBook Pro for a Christmas gift because I know it's super reliable and will last. Fast, Sleek, Beautiful!
5|This TV IS WORTH GETTING FOR THE PRICE!! It's perfectlly sized for your bedroom, with many of the "smart" amenities... It's anti-glare, great picture and volume,were very satistified that we went back and bout 2 more for our house. Overall, a great product!!!
3|I primarily bought this MacBook Pro as a Christmas gift for my wife and to duel boot windows 7 Pro on it for me as I write PC based code (software). The positives on this computer are Obvious and well known and include great construction, great parts and a stable and secure operating system that supports most household and small business tasks as well as great professional graphics interfaces (though these are typically performed on the Mac Pro desktops). Now for the downsides: 1) For my personal use I bought this product to be a more powerful home laptop than my existing windows 7 PC that has an AMD Turion dual core clocked at 2.1 GHZ and 4GB of DDR2 Ram while the specs on the MacBook pro are clearly better than my Windows 7 Laptop; Apple dropped support for Windows 7 on this edition (despite being told by the salesmen it was supported). Only Windows 8 is supported needless to say this computer is all my wife's now the only use I get out of it (from a programming standpoint) is checking Webpages for Safari compatibility, which I can do with our older Macbook. Now for the other pitfall: This Macbook has similar hardware specs to a $500 windows machine adding in the construction quality make that $700. So OS X is roughly $300 this is a little steep in my opinion.
5|Purchased this for my daughterexcellent laptop for a graduate student to be!
4|Helped my mother in law pick this out. It was a good deal as an older model plus a further discount for open box. She needed a card reader and disc drive which the Air didn't provide. She's happy with it.
5|I purchased this laptop for my 11 year old son. It sinked with our existing mac easily. We moved him from a pc to avoid the constant spam and necessary security issues.
5|This is my wife's first Mac. After having several PC laptops, I convinced her to stop buying that junk and she has not looked back. Everything just works as it should.
4|I bought the Mac primarily so that I could run Logic Pro X. The program rocks for the price and quality. Hopping over to Mac after 20 years on a PC was a big change, though I do like it now. I don't like that a lot of features are hidden and feel like a "new mac users" tutorial video or program in the computer would improve the experience. The machine itself is very very nice. It does get hot if you leave it on your lap but not overly so. Just put it on a table and it's completely fine. My one big complaint would be the whites of the screen. They're somewhat washed out or something. It's hard to describe. Where the colors look splendid, the whites are very 'meh'. Overall; for the price I paid, I really like the purchase
5|Ordered a MacBook Pro at a price that beat everywhere else. Chose free shipping, and delivery was estimated to take 7 days but item arrived in an unbelievable 3 days!
5|This is a great product. The Apple Pro is lightweight and works great. Very fast, more ports, speed. Love it
5|Best computer on the market. You will have a mac for years. They do not drag and slow down. Would recommend everyone buying a computer to go with the Apple Mac Book
5|It's perfect. My first Apple and I have no regrets.
5|First time using an Apple computer and was intimidated and frustrated at first. after playing around (and getting the OS X Yosemite for dummies book-which i also recommend for first timers) i have learned how to navigate and use most programs. there are a lot of shortcuts i am still learning (book helps).
4|Much better than a PC. The safari on the new iOS is pretty annoying. Freezes all the time
5|Great for travel. Movies automatically in widescreen. Nice multitasking and display and speed excellent.
5|i am a big fan of apple products so this just adds to my collection!
5|My MacBook Pro was a great investment. Great laptop
5|This computer was a Christmas present for my daughter and should hold her until she graduates college in 6-7 years.
4|Got this for Christmas from my husband and i absolutely love it. I love that it's not a bulky laptop, it's nice and thin and i can sync my phone to it.
5|The 13 inch MacBook Pro is sleek and powerful! It has all the features one needs packed into a small package.
5|I am happy with this purchase and would highly recommend the MacBook Pro to anyone considering it!
5|A great laptop at a great price and the extra coverage is unbeatable!
5|I love this computer, I actually bought me one some years ago, the recent one I got, it was for my sister.
5|Good product, I would recommend to a friend or family
5|Having been a Windows user for the past two decades, I must say that I am truly impressed with the MAC operating system and interface. This device will be a fantastic addition to my life.
5|Wife needed a new laptop and got this for her. She has not looked back since. Her old HP did the job but since it was getting slower by the days she decided to jump to Apple since most of our devices were Apple, it just made sense.
5|Laptop serves its purpose. Go w Apple if you want a laptop w no issues down the line
5|I have always purchased HP and they last 1-2 years max. Finally purchased an Apple and its great !!!
5|My daughter will be in high school next year. The Macbook works well for school. Her Macbook is light, portable, and versatile for her specific computer needs. She loves it!
5|Pros : Quality product Remains cool (so far) Cons: Have to have adapters for HDMI
5|Very easy to use. Extremely light. Love the CD/DVD drive. That was the main reason for purchase Overvthe MacBook Air.
4|throught Mac would not let you download things that would slow the computer or things that should not be downloaded but my son downloaded utorrent and it slowed the computer down and we can not get it off
4|No issues yet. Took a little to get use to the switch from PC to Mac.
4|It's just amazing with great features. Love my laptop.
5|I've heard rave reviews about Apple Macs for years. I had reservations about the price, hype and how quickly it would be obsolete (like windows pcs and programs). This MacBook Pro is amazing. Apple didn't need to really evolve the hardware. I don't feel as though I'll need to get something better next year. Set up was easy. Access to web and other programming is wysiwyg easy. It's worth the money and I'm glad I finally got it/get it.
5|I was looking to purchase a new Mac as I was letting my mother keep my older one... and this hit all my needs. Especially useful because it does have the CDrom drive, which I still use (somewhat old-school). But the display and processing speeds are more than ideal. I'm Team Apple all the way!
5|I have a 15" macbook Pro and needed a more economical but yet very good computer for a college student. This is an excellent find at an excellent price.
5|Great laptop, works for all laptop needs, user friendly
5|its something that i know can last me a long time to come.
5|The laptop runs so smoothly and came with the updated software. It was brand new and included all that it said it would. Very easy to use or learn how to use. Great product from Apple.
5|I love this computer and very useful for my research at home and office as well
5|My daughter is using for her projects and homework and she's happy with her new MacBook
5|Great laptop very fast and lots of memory. Great price bought it online Thanksgiving day.
5|I'm a mobile DJ and purchased this PC as an upgrade to the 2009 MacBook I had. This computer fit the bill! Even better is the ability to expand the memory (unavailable for the MacBook Air) which I plan on doing real soon. It runs complex applications with speed and no glitches.
5|There are quite a few competitors out there in the marketplace right now for Macbook Pros (Lenovo Yoga, Surface 2 and 3, etc) but I bought this over the others because I wanted a computer that would work and last. I previously had a Macbook pro that I bought in 2008- that version lasted until now when I bought my new Macbook Pro. Phenomenal, very powerful computers.
5|Love my new laptop. It really is a great device !!
4|It is fast, has a lot of capacity, and has the ability to do all the functions m daughter needs.
5|The MacBook Pro is the best laptop on the market in my opinion. It is fast and so easy to use, it is worth the extra money.
5|Easy to use and learn, over all a great product. Great!!!
4|The pricing. I got this system on sale, if it was not on sale, I would not have purchased it. Otherwise an excellent product.
5|Purchased this for my son and am extremely pleased. Solid build and fast enough to please his online gaming needs as well as practical enough for school use. Perfect.
5|I always wanted a Mac and I loved it.mit is so easy to get the things I need and save them.
5|Its fast, lightweight, and does all the right things. Screen is really good as well.
5|Super fast, easy online purchase overnight on Black Friday, with sale price and all!
4|Great product first Mac and so far I'm very impressed with the Macbook Pro
5|I love this laptop. It is super fast and has a great display.
5|It's a great computer, especially for beginners or those who have difficulty with technology
5|Nice laptop. Bought this for my teenage daughter. So far she loves it although this is out first Mac and it's taking time to get use to it.
5|This is a great computer, hands down. Solid build, great feel, quick. Everything you need in a laptop.
5|This was my first Apple based computer experience ever. I have to say it was very simple to start, sync accounts, and get rocking and rolling with using. The GUI is very user friendly and the system is lightning fast. A great value and would highly recommend again!
5|My new Mac is amazing the graphics processing speed everything about this computer is perfect. Best purchase ever!
5|Upgraded from a Early 2011 model. Excellent laptop with faster processor. Would buy again.
5|Very nice laptop for the price! A present for my teen daughter.
5|The way to go for an affordable mac. Super quick. Perfect for school or home. I now swear with mac. i would recommend this to anybody who wants an amazing computer
5|Absolutely awesome laptop! This is my first Mac and I will never go back. Worth every penny:) We first bought one for my son starting college and I loved it so much I went back to buy myself one!
5|This computer makes school projects so much easier to complete with easy to use graphic programs. My daughter loves her new computer!
5|This is my third apple laptop, and by far the best one I have purchased by far. I am more then happy with it.
5|My daughter loves it, it is fabulous for a college student
5|I bought this laptop specifically for Xcode, which works perfectly on this laptop. It can also run some games fairly well, but not amazingly.
4|This MacBook is a great computer for a college student who needs something for online classes and papers
5|Never hangs. Fast. Quiet. Ready to serve next task.
5|First time using a mac, so there was a little learning curve, Fairly intuitive once you start exploring functionality. Like that all my devices (phone, iPad) all sync together.
4|I had heard mixed reviews. If you love your iPhone you will love a MacBook! Just takes a little bit to get used to a different way of scrolling &amp;amp; looking for things but once you get used to it, it is awesome!
5|I bought this computer for my daughter who is in college I like it so much I'm going to buy another one for the family
4|This Macbook Pro is great for someone who is switching from Windows to Mac! It is a strong and durable Macbook and is the last of the Pro series that still includes a disc drive and has a bigger hard-drive than any of the fancy new ones that boasts the "retina display". I'd take more space over that any day.
5|I was a bit nervous switching from a PC to a Mac, but it has been a smooth transition.
5|I love it! It was exactly what I was looking for!!
5|I bought this computer for my daughter. It is very fast and sturdy. So far it has worked very well.
5|Very great laptop. Has so many futures. Long time battery.
5|I bought the MacBook Pro for my daughter to use for High School and College, because I know it will last that long. I am completely happy with the MacBook Pro, and my daughter is very happy as well. It's a solid laptop, and it's really getting me to rethink my next laptop refresh for myself, perhaps there is a MacBook Pro in my future!
5|This is a wonderful Mac at a very good price! Fast, efficient, and beautiful to work with! I was able to get it at $200 dollars off! Better than apples price! The salesman was very nice and knowledgeable in his help he rendered me! I would recommend to my friends and family.
4|It is a good computer that I would recommend to my friends.
5|Another Great Apple product and easy to carry around
5|Nice design as always. Has a DVD/CD slot and more space for my buck which is why I chose this over the Air. Pretty much great for me and the battery lasts a day for me, but it's not like I'm a gamer or anything, but then again Don't get this if you're a gamer in the first place haha. Only problem is nice screen displays are not worth it for the price that Apple sells them at to consumers.
5|It is a great enough laptop if you don't need high performance like complex video edition
5|The only recommendation is I would upgrade the memory. Great machine, a definite step up from a PC......
5|Haven't found a thing I don't like. I like the slim line look as well as the color. Love how all my apple items sync together now. I had my old mac for 7 years and it was great!!!! Thats what made me buy another. I bought this particular model because it has a c.d, player still in it!
5|First time buying a Mac and I doubt I will ever go back to windows.
5|MacPro is a breath of fresh air after using windows with all the advertisements. Really appreciate being able to choose if and when I want an update. I'm in the process of learning how to use it and appreciate the apps you can get to help.
5|Happy with my macbook pro! I love how its light, and that you can carry it around easily! A must buy!
4|I've been a fan of the Macbook since. I bought my first one back in 2009, in fact I still have it. It has suffered some minor damage, trackpad doesn't work a so great, but that was due to negligence on my part. So I got this as a replacement. And gaveverything my old one to one of the kids. Although they offer the Macbook Air and the Macbook Pro with retin a display, I opted for this model because it was in my pricenter range and I can upgrade the RAM. Macbook Air doesn't have this option.
5|I bought this for my husband and he's very satisfied not only it's a great product but also a great price and shipped in timely manner.
4|It is quite different from other computers I have had (all windows pcs). At this point, I prefer the Windows pc (my hp). However, it is a learning process. I like it better and better as I become more familiar with it. It seems to be more for non-computer people. I use Microsoft Office a lot and really miss it. Pages, Keynote, and Numbers seem to do the job, but like anything new to you, it will take a while to learn. I am sure I will really like it later on. I like that the battery lasts all day (7 hours or so). That's an improvement over the 3 hours for my old laptop. This review should be written after I have had the Mac awhile. I would recommend it, but I would explain it is DIFFERENT. Currently, I prefer the hp.
4|I bought this computer for my daughter and she loves it! I thought the "newness" would wear off but she hasen't put it down.
4|This mac is great works amazing could have a bit more ram and storrage but for 400 cheaper then most other macs it was perfect for me
5|It was for my child and he was exiting by the item.
5|It is very good in look and performance. No virus attack
5|Bought this for my 15 year old who sings and makes videos and for school work. It is flawless and easy to use. She has been so thrilled with it!!
5|this laptop is awesome. Great battery life, great synchronization with my other apple devices. Also like the loud speakers
5|Ordered this mac laptop for my high school freshman and see loves it so much. It is her dream computer (and 1st ever) and it will serve her well. Our delivery was as expected and excellent product
5|This is my first Apple laptop and coming from Windows 8 I have to say that I am truly happy with it. It is very well organized, clean and easy to work. It works perfectly with my iPhone. I used to have Windows phone and Windows laptop. With all due respect to Microsoft, I like Apple more.
5|this mac for my wife. she is going back to school.
5|Excellent value. Thankful I got it on Black Friday. Looks identical to my 2011 MBP, but faster, has USB 3 and double the memory. It has the cd/dvd player. With the air I wouldn't have had that. (My 2011 MBP still works, but only when I am at an elevation above 4000 feet. When I am at sea level, the trackpad can't control the cursor. The cursor flies all over, totally out of control.) So far, this MBP is a great product.
4|Like it so far n better than windows laptop.......
5|First of all I was always a windows person, until I got this laptop. I don't think I will ever go back. It's easy to use once you get the hang of it and it so many capabilities. I love this laptop and would recommend to anyone.
4|Functions well for a student but the battery life is not as long as it states.
4|A great startup laptop for college. Great battery life and performance laptop.
5|This laptop was purchased for my daughter after month's of her pleading, and now I know why. It does everything: music, movies, etc. She even got rid of her tv in the room b/c she uses her laptop for Netflix
5|I really enjoy my macbook pro and it was definitely worth every penny.
5|Fast, clean and efficient. Computer has every capability you will ever need.
4|the apple laptop I bought was great. I really liked it very much.
5|Gave this computer to my wife, and she loves it! She owned an older Apple computer and it was time for an upgrade. Great speed, plenty of storage, I could go on and on. Definitely recommend.
5|I have own many laptops but this by far is the best one that I have ever owned. Thank you Black Friday.
5|we only buy apple products..this computer all anyone could ever need and user friendly
5|What can I say, it's MacBookPro! I am a happy camper.
5|I love apple. My hobbies range from DJ'ing to graphic design. With this laptop I can do it all. I'm also a student so it's great for handling the simple things.
5|Very nice sleek design. Excellent replacement for my old laptop! Smooth sailing machine!
5|The best investment you will ever make in the Computer world. My last one is over 10yrs old never at a repair shop.
5|We already have a macbook pro so we bought this for our high schooler. He loves it- it's fast, reliable, don't have to worry about overheating, syncs with phone etc.
5|I bought this one for my daughter, she loves it and she is enjoying it.
5|I purchased this computer for travel, and as a backup to my bigger MacBook Pro with the i7 processor. It does everything I need it to do, it's compact for traveling and I am happy with this purchase.
5|Bought the computer as a gift to replace an eight year old one: just can't beat Apple for longevity and quality.
5|Great packaging for shipping; very easy to set up; laptop is very user friendly
5|I love it and it is good price. I works very good.
5|This machine is better than MacBook Air due to its storage and other features such as, it accepts a memory card, it has a CD ROM, the RAM is upgradable, it has a place to input an ethernet cord, and many more features. It is better design and machine than the new MacBook Pro Retina and MacBook Air. If you are photographer, student, or someone who wants the best bang for their buck. I would suggest to buy this machine.
5|i got this mac on black friday, good discount, very pleased
4|We bought this for our daughter and it was her second MacBook
5|I love my new laptop. Great purchase. Prompt service was excellent.
5|When you buy Mac products, you know exactly what you are going to get. Excellent quality, easy to use and user friendly.
5|It's a Mac. It works better than a PC. This is coming from a guy who refused to buy a Mac and repaired everyone else's PC when they had issues. I own 3 Macs now. A MacMini, an 27" iMac, and now this MacBook Pro. I Got my first Mac 3 years ago and I will never buy a PC again. When someone asks me to figure out what is wrong with their PC, I tell them. "It's not a Mac, that's the problem. Spend a little more money and get a Mac and you won't have all these issues." Plus, they aren't obsolete 3 seconds after you walk out the door of the store. Get a Mac if you hate computer issues.
5|Apple never seems to amaze their Customer. This is a great laptop.
5|I have been using macbook pro for a long time, and I bought this for my friend. It is a smart computer that give me good experience.
4|It does whatever I need it to do. It's my first apple product so I am still getting used to it but I am quite satisfied
5|This is an excellent laptop, works like a charm.. Better than any other laptops I have used..
5|I purchased this Mac Book for my daughter Yum Yum for her B-day. She loves it. She goes everywhere with it, they are two in one. She watches movies, plays games, makes her own videos. I have hardly seen her since I purchased it for her.
4|good computer works great i really like it, great for beginners
5|I bought this for a christmas gift. I was very satisfied with purchased.
5|Got a great price- know it's high quality and very light compared to other computers- love it.
5|I am thrilled to have my new laptop and the beginning of my apple products journey.
4|We bought it for my wife. A little hard to get used to. Nice computer tho
4|Good MAC Book with reasonable price, i always wanted to have a macbook
5|Excellent. We were worried about transitioning from a PC type computer, but this was seamless and easy. Best yet, the efficiency and execution of the MacBook easily trump our old PC laptop. Glad we switched!
5|Apple makes a quality product and does not disappoint.
5|My only complaint is that all the USB outlet is on the left and my [wired] mouse is on my right hand... kinda hard with the wired being wrapped around the laptop Fast laptop, pretty light for carrying, doesn't get as hot as other laptops I've own.
5|My son loves his new MacBook! I didn't think the one he already had could get any better. The new technology is outstanding.
5|Great laptop for the price. I was looking to get the Air but went the Pro because of the small price difference.
5|Two years ago I purchased the MacBook Pro for my daughter and she loved it so much that I decided to purchase one for my son. Now he is over-the-moon with his own computer! Both children are diligent students and the MacBook Pro is an excellent tool to help them complete assignments. I love the security protection from Apple!
4|I love my new computer!!! It is light weight that I can bring it to my classes.
5|This was a gift for my son..he loves it! He is into photography, and the editing features are great.
5|Works seamlessly with all apple devices. If you need to run windows natively, you can do that too with boot camp. Better yet, triple boot mac, linux and windows.
5|Excellent service. In and out of store very quickly
5|Got this for my daughter for college. ... she's in love!!!
4|I like the laptop, but only know a little of what it can do. I need to take a class.
5|I really looked at a lot of different options before purchasing this for my college student and this has been the best for his college needs
5|My daughter is in graphic design and video making and this is exactly ehat she wanted.
5|The computer is meeting all of my needs as expected. Little tricky trying to sync with home computer, but very happy with purchase
5|I was waiting for my Mac for long time at last got mine . It was an awesome experience to open the first Mac of my life . Enjoying each and every moment am using it . so far it's the best laptop I have used believe it will be the best forever :)
5|It's different than most computers. Takes a while to get used to it, but good quality.
5|I love this MacBook pro. It's simply amazing. I fell in love with it at my first sight of it
4|This compter is much more reliable than my old dell. The operating system is much more user friendly than windows 8. Ive only had a few issues with having to load the computer twice when it turns on it will cut off and i will have to press the power button again to boot it back up and everything is fine.
5|As a teacher and a graduate student, this laptop was a must have. Owning all Apple products (iPhone, iPod, iPad, iMac) I am familiar with the set up &amp;amp; it's easiness. Upon plugging in it linked to my iMac and I was able to transfer anything I wanted right on to my new MacBook. Love it!
5|This is the best for a student going off to college next year
5|MacBooks are great computers, they have excellent software and are worth the cost.
5|Great for editing photos. Very quick and easy to use.
4|I absolutely love my MacBook pro. It does everything I need it to do and more. I used to have a PC and I've found that my MacBook is more user friendly and has a lot more capabilities.
5|First Mac and well with the wait. Totally easy to use and so slick. Love it!
5|This macbook isn't the latest and greatest one. It doesn't have an i7 chip and doesn't have 16gb of ram, the SSD, or even the retina display but it is a solid machine that can do anything quickly and efficiently that you would like to do
5|Love it. Even better than my old one. Runs my programs without any delays or issues
4|Recommended to all users. Great laptop and good price
5|MacBook is the best! The computer is so fast and I love how everything is synced with my iPhone and iPad.
5|You should all go out and buy this amazing product
5|A great laptop - terrific performance and good durability. Should be my primary computer for years to come.
5|Awesome and reliable laptop for my granddaughter :)
5|This laptop is really easy to use, and being a high school senior about to head off to college, it has a great battery life and is compact enough to carry around in a backpack without having to get a separate laptop bag for it. I bought a hard shell case for it from TopCase and I'm all set!
5|Love it! With every other apple macbook this Is the only one with the built in DVD R+W, CD player! I still prefer it that way. Tales a little bit more time adjusting from being a PC previous owner. This is a great machine!
5|LIGHTWEIGHT PRODUCT EASY TO USE LOVE APPLE PRODUCTS
5|I bought this as my first Mac for College. I already had an iPhone and IPad mini so decided it was time for a MacBook for school after my Sony Vaio was too old and almost non functional. I love my new MacBook, it does everything I need and and then some. Trust me if you are thinking of switching to Mac you will love this computer!
5|Fast start up. has everything i need a computer to have
3|Apple is the best yeahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
4|too much type about this computer not as fast as i thought it would be love the simple design and the backlit keepboard!
5|The computer is best for budget mac buyers. The performance is great, even though I upgraded it to yosemite. It came default with mavericks. Only advice, is please don't ever use file vault feature as it slows down the machine dramatically, and also couple of other things like transparency and all will effect the performance. But major issue is with file vault where it sometimes bring the machine to unrecoverable state!
5|What I expected when I purchased this mac. Still an excellent system.
5|Got this computer for a great deal on black friday, couldn't be happier!
4|I like the battery life of my Mac. Its been really nice for long work. Amazing build &amp;amp; so far so good
5|Love my new Macbook Air! It is light and fast and is everything you would want in a new laptop. I started off with the Macbook Pro but switched to the Air and found it more suited to my needs.
5|So far I'm loving this MacBook Pro I really recommend to anyone really easy to use it's not complicated like Pc
5|great product. very easy to use. the weight is little bit heavy
5|My wife had an old Gateway that was a piece of junk, so we ended up getting the MacBook and she loves it. It didn't take her long to adjust from the PC at all, and we are now a happy Mac family!
5|Everything my daughter wanted. She was very happy Christmas morning.
4|It feels really strong compare to any windows computer i had before..not really using it too much as i bough it for an specific task.. but it start up quick and runs really smooth! !
5|Easy setup and easy to use. Works perfectly for all my needs!
5|I've decided to go Mac.....it's the best...........
5|This Apple laprop has been a great asset to the family. Very pleased.
5|I purchased a new macbook pro for medical school, and so far it is everything I anticipated it to be. I love apple products because they are simple, fast, reliable, and easy to use. I replaced my macbook from 2007 (which was still in great working condition) with my new macbook pro because of faster speed, more storage, and newer software.
5|Awesome computer. I bought on Black Friday and got a great deal.
5|Awesome it's a Mac!! Easy To use. A great tool for business or personal
5|Bought this computer for my child in college. Excellent computer and great price
5|This was the first time I purchased a MAC computer. It takes a bit to get used to the OS but with some time I would say it will be the best computer I have ever owned.
5|Easy to set up. Good graphics, light to carry. Would recommend
5|We set out to get the MacBook Air as it was going to be on sale for Black Friday and we found the Pro was the SAME PRICE! She loves it.
5|Great laptop. Very fast. Apple customer forever!!!!
4|I have no real complaints. It's an Apple. Plug it in and it just works
5|I got this on the Black Friday deal and it is very good quality computer I have ever used.
5|I replaced laptop and love it. Fast and just what I needed.
5|My daughter is a college student and uses it for school she loves it says it's very easy to use. For everything school to all other online needs
5|Was a gift to my daughter. She loved it . I Love Mac book Pros.
5|The best in technology. My son chose very well for himself.
5|Great product does everything I need will recommend to other
5|Great laptop I bought for my daughter who is starting high school next year. I would rather have a Windows laptop for much less but if you are set on Apple you cant go wrong here
5|Laptop is awesome! I'm glad I made this purchase for myself.
5|Bought for daughter for Christmas. Great loves it.
5|This is my second Mac laptop after my '07 Macbook pro went kaput. I was worried this screen might be too small by comparison as I was used to 15 inches, but it's perfect. It's fast, it's gorgeous and it still has a CD/DVD driver unlike the Macbook Air. Quick, easy setup, vibrant display. I would recommend this to anyone and everyone.
5|I actually hesitated very much because of the cost and its heaviness, but I am glad that I purchased it. It isn't as heavy as I thought. Since I just bought it i wouldn't know how long it will last me, but i am hoping my all 4 college years and possibly grad school as well. That is what I have been hearing from other mac users as well.
5|takes a little time to get used to the Mac having always used a PC, but once i got the hang of it , I LOVE it.
5|We have had multiple Apple products before this and are satisfied with this product as well. Works great and got it for a fantastic price.
5|Easy to navigate, operate and perfect for dictation.
5|The Mac is an awesome product and I will purchase them forever.
4|Overall, this is what you'd expect from an Apple laptop: smooth, clean design, nice bright screen, easy-to-use operating system. So those all meet my expectations for a secondary computer for my home business (basically, I'll use this for writing and presenting on the road). Where the laptop stumbles (stalls) quite a bit is in running Yosemite, the newest OS. 4GB of memory seems like it's baseline for running it through its paces. So I'll be adding another 4GB to this for a smoother experience. Right now, as it is, this laptop takes as long to boot up and log in to basic services as my 3-year-old Air. Plan ahead and get some extra memory and you should be good. This is also important if you will be doing any work in Photoshop or Illustrator. You can do it...but trust me, you're going to want a lot more memory to not make every project an exercise in trying your patience. Again, not a big deal to add more memory, just know going in that if you're using this for more than presentations, browsing and writing, get more memory (and really, you should probably go with the retina model then anyway if you're doing graphics work). Also, there's the weight. A friend of mine has the 15-inch retina MBP from last year, and that comes in lighter than this puppy. If you're going to be lugging this around a lot, maybe spend a little more and go lighter. All in all, this is a solid laptop if it won't be your primary. It was a deal for me as I got it during Black Friday. If I didn't need a new one right then, I would have probably held out and spent more money to get the retina.
4|You cannot beat APPLE Products and get what you pay for
5|I love my MacBook Pro! Just switched over from a PC and I'm never going back. The cover is great too for protecting the laptop although it gets hot on the bottom when your gaming. The black bag is really nice and worth the price. I would definitely recommend this to everyone.
5|This is my first Mac computer and I love it. I use it primarily to surf the net and for word processing, however, I love the fact that it comes with a whole bunch of other features and programs that I haven't yet explored. I love the look of the MacBook Pro and it feels like a sturdy durable computer. The battery life seems to be good so far and the quality of viewing images is way better than any PC I've ever had. I would definitely recommend it to anyone considering purchasing a Mac laptop.
5|Love it, not to mention it has made me life so much easier!
5|She was given this for Christmas. Will be using it to go to college.
5|Macbook Pro is best laptop ever i used. This is my first Macbook easy to use, efficient very long battery life i had used Toshiba ,dell before nothing close to Macbook once to use for few days you don't use any other brand really worth money paid for .
5|This is my second Macbook and I love them. I have been through 3 PC's that I have used only for work purposes in the last 5 years and my three year old macbook pro is still alive and well. This computer will be my new work computer and has been great so far!
5|I absolutely love my MacBook Pro. It operates smoothly and efficiently .
5|My first Apple, excellent product! Almost went the cheaper route thinking technology changes so fast will have to upgrade in 2 - 3 yrs, but everyone I know who has an Mac says they have had theirs for 5 years or more and it is just as viable. I am still learning about all the bells and whistles, but it has performed every task perfectly so far. Glad I went Mac.
4|MacBook Pro is always a top of the line lap-top. This particular laptop does not have the retina display feature, but I have a separate MacBook Pro with the Retina display and you cannot notice a difference. The I5 processor is fast, seems to run just a fraction slower than my other MacBook with the I7 processor. This was a gift for my mother who was switching from a Dell. MacBooks have a great tutorial on how to operate it. I installed MS-Office on her new MacBook &amp;amp; there has been no complaints nor compatibility issues.
5|I purchased this for my high school daughter. She loves it. My husband is an IT guy and recommends MAC books for kids.
5|I bought one MacBook Pro, enjoyed all the luxuries in its entirety, came back and purchased one for my Dtr., and we'll both are able to enhanced what we sort from our other pcs. There are no comparison with Apple's Mac products!! We could never revert back, we are iContent &amp;amp; iSmarter!!
5|The MacBook Pro is well worth the money. Although Apple products have their drawbacks, they are reliable and last years.
5|Bought this computer for my husband as a Christmas gift. Both my children have Mac's and have never had any problems with them. They are both going strong.
5|The transition to a Mac was easier than expected. Even though it isn't the lightest available, it's quite portable. I expect that we'll switch to Mac permanently.
5|Great laptop will recommend to a friend but also very expensive but it's worth it will keep buying apple and always
5|(Review by user, not purchaser; item was a gift.) I love the product. Works completely perfectly. Great speed, excellent apps. No complaints. Perfect for what I need it for. It's an Apple and therefore amazing.
5|Very happy with the price and quality of this MacBook Pro. Completely satisfied with the purchase and the opportunity to return it after the holidays because this purchase was a gift.
5|I have enjoyed using my MacBook. Picture is very nice
5|When you think Apple, you think quality and that is exactly what you get. Great system.
5|The computer worked great right out of the box. Screen is clear and computer is very fast. The salesman was knowledgeable and made sure I was spend ing my money wisely when he suggested the laptop.
4|Solid product has everything I want and more in a computer
5|I bought this product (2012 model) after doing lots of research. I found this MacBook Pro to be the best investment for anyone interested in purchasing an Apple computer. Apple has put a lot of effort to plan out the obsolescence of their new line of computers. The new models (2014 models) have the RAM chips soldered to the logic board, so RAM upgrades are impossible. The product I am reviewing has the ability to upgrade the RAM, in fact, I have already ordered 8 GBs from Crucial. This product also grants you the ability to upgrade storage device, with OPTIONS!! I can either get a new Hard Drive, Solid State Drive, or a Solid State Hard Drive Hybrid. The new models may allow the end-users to upgrade the storage devices, but you must buy expensive Solid State Drive "Blades", which lack in reasonable storage capacity. This is the only remaining model with an Optical Disc Drive (CD/DVD Player), and Firewire port. The only downsides to this product, is how heavy it is, and no retina display. Those are really no big deal to me, but I think it is worth mentioning.
5|good software good camera good a lot of stuff with the computer
5|This laptop is small so it is easy to take around everywhere, but big enough so it is comfortable when you are on it. I take it everywhere!
5|The Macbook Pro 13 is the best sized laptop. We have a 10" SOB (Some other brand) which is too small and our 15.6" other laptops are too large for us for traveling. We really like this computer. Also, the keyboard has background light which really helps in low light conditions.
4|My Husband wanted one for Christmas and it did not disappoint. Fast and easy to set up.
5|I bought this Mac to my daughter and she says it is the best gift ever for her future!!
5|To be honest, I thought Apple computers were a little over rated. But after I made the switch, I never thought it would be this easy! It's a little expensive but thank goodness that I bought it during black friday! I am still getting used to macbook pro as a whole but so far so good!
5|i would highly recommend this computer for a non tech person it walks a person through all the functions of the unit in plain language easy to follow
4|I decided to switch to a Mac for a change. It's pretty fast and has lots of cool features and programs. Was well worth the money.
5|My son is learning autocad in school and they use MACs, I consider it an investment into his future. He got my old one, and I got a new one. :-)
5|Only problem don't work with cd for dvd or window cd great otherwise
5|By far the best price I could find on the internet (and in stores), crazy fast delivery, packaged safely and of course, it works flawlessly. Seriously can't ask for much more than that!
5|Got this macbook pro.. love it, all i wanted was dvd drive and ethernet port. its a friendly use. I also installed windows without upgrading my RAM. works great with no issues.
5|This is my first MacBook and I am loving it. Much easier to navigate than a pc. Will definitely be sticking with Mac from now on.
5|It's a little different than what I'm used to. Love it.
5|This is my second MacBook, but my first time purchasing a MacBook Pro. I couldn't be happier with the performance and reliability of this computer. The new OS is seamless and easy to use. I use this computer for school and work and have been very pleased with my purchase.
5|Got my daughter this to start off her college next year. She was so excited!!! we are not fond of windows 8 and the mac has everything and sync's with all her other apple products. I would greatly recommend this mac!!! great product. just a little on the heavy side but she doesn't care at all.
4|I love this laptop, you can never go wrong with a MacBook ! The only downside is trying to find cases and covers for the smaller size. Other than that I have no complaints.
5|our old laptop took a dump about a year after we got it. Have an I pad and love it so wanted to add to the family. Got it for a great deal on Black Friday. I love it.
5|Everything I've wanted in a Mac.. I choose this one for the cd drive already in and the memory I'm going to upgrade the ram though sometimes there's a little delay
5|When in doubt an easy-to-use MacBook Pro is the way to go. Sleek, great quality.
5|I will never buy any laptop besides an apple. So easy to use .
5|It has a been bit of an adjustment as the keyboard is smaller than on my desktop and the mouse is also different from my wired one for my desktop. I do love now that I am getting used to it.
5|Just made a switch from PC to Mac and I will never go back.
5|This MacBook Pro is a go to workhorse. It is fast enough and has lots of memory. This is a proven computer and it's positive feedbacks from other buyers made my choice simple. I wanted a laptop for our daughter for school as well as video and music. Perfect.
5|I love my mac pro. It has so much and is easy to use.
5|Everything works great if coarse it does its a Mac !!
5|It comes with word document programs already installed. Like resume templates, presentation templates, even budget planning programs.it's a lot to explore .the only thing I have a hard time getting control of is scrollingup and down with the mouse pad
4|Exactly what I needed to begin college. Like the laptop is upgradable for future requirements.
4|First time with mac. Wife wants it. We got it. She loves it.
5|sleek and smooth laptop. love the backlit keyboard
5|All worked well - good price. My teenager is loving his new mac book. He immediately upgraded it to Yosemite and moved all his school work from his Windows 8.1 laptop to this new Mac.
4|It is great mac book for my daughter as beginner usage!
5|I purchased this computer as an Open Box Items and was just like new. My son loved it for Christmas.
4|We bought it for my mom who doesn't know anything about computer and she loves it
5|Laptop was as described. Good communication. Quick shipping.
5|My 8 year old Mac finally died, so I got this as a replacement. I love this computer. It is lighter and does not get hot.
5|Computer is great for all my basic computing needs interfaces very well with my iPad and Iphone.
5|Gud design Light to carry around and very compatible
5|I am pleased with the speed and battery longevity.
3|I was excited about buying my first apple computer, however; I was very disappointed with the quality of the screen. Any written letters were actually blurry. On a good note, the back lit keyboard was a gem. It was the best that I had ever seen.
5|I bought this Macbook for my dad. He absolutely loved it
5|Macbook is easy to use, and connects to all of my apple products, making this the perfect laptop for me. Love this product!
5|Bought another MacBook. 3rd one. They just work and they're easy to use.
5|Very reliable. Not only is it fast but it has also never broken down. It is also a very stylish computer.
5|What an awesome Macbook Pro this is &amp;amp; my wife absolutely loves it &amp;amp; was extremely surprised!
5|Perfect option for a college student. Awesome laptop includes all ports needed, even cd.
5|I decided to buy this MacBook Pro because my 6 year old white MacBook started having little glitches. The older mac's mouse freezes and sometimes it doesn't want to detect wifi/internet. I bought a mousepad for it so it's still good...but decided to get a new one. The new Mac is great and so much faster! Would never go back to windows...Mac lover for over 6 years!
5|Great Christmas gift!! Runs greats!! Love it!! I bought this as a gift for my boyfriend but he also surprised me with one!! It's becoming easier to use as I get to know all it's functions!! It's very nice and I hope to have it for a long time!
5|Easy to set up and use. Meets all my expectations.
4|I like this. It's my first MackBook that I've ever had, and it's good
5|I'm a PC user ... got the MacBook and love it. Very fast and has great tactile feel on the keyboard. Very happy I made the move to Apple products.
5|I've always wanted a Mac and this is my first one. It was very easy to set up and it is very convenient being that I have multiple Apple devices. It's the perfect size to carry on a plane or in a backpack. I highly suggest purchasing a laptop cover to protect it from bumps and scratches.
5|I've been wanting to switch from a pc to a mac for I while. Glad I did. Love this computer. Well built hardware. Great software. All around solid.
5|I've had no issues with this product and it continues to exceed my initial expectations.. I would recommend this product to anyone and everyone! 100% quality
5|Former PC user in need of a quality laptop for personal, work and school. This brand was recommended by a few of my co workers and friends. Somewhat pricey for me until Black Friday. So far I am very impressed with Apples iOS. Learning the Apple format is not difficult, must be patient by using Apple tutorials. It is smooth all around including the keyboards. Very strong and sturdy. A well deserved end of the year gift.
4|The laptop was easy to set and easy to learn how to use. I'm new to MAC laptops. Great interface with iPhone and iPad. The downgrade in grading is due to the difficult time I had i. Purchasing the product from Best Buys. The refusal to grant 18 month financing despite my credit score over 800. Reason was they couldn't identify my identify even after going to the store in person to purchase this item on Black Friday, the only day of this sale. I almost did not buy it.
5|The computer runs good. This is the best Christmas gift I could have treat myself to
5|Mac products have always worked great for me. And the price sealed the deal for me.
5|Long battery life... I love the magnetized charging cord!
5|He loves it and won't put it down. He plans to use it this year in High School and then next year when he attends college.
4|Nice laptop for personal use and good support service.
5|This device is fast and easy to use. I enjoy the ability to multi-task with different program at the same time with no loss of processing speed on the Macbook
5|this is our first apple computer, and we got it because our kids have both the iPad and iPod and have had no trouble what so ever with them. so far this computer is very savvy. i love the way it looks and all of the icons at the bottom of the screen that are mostly used now a days.
5|The product was nice and easy to set-up. I am very happy with my Mac computer
5|I love everything about my laptop. No issues, no problems.
5|Perfect for me, brushing up on new operating system.
4|I've owned the computer now for over a month. I haven't had any problems and it's super user friendly. Very fast and excellent picture, love apple products.
4|Huge holiday sale, can't beat the price. Great laptop.
4|Have a Mac Book already but my wife needed a new one. Works fast and efficient.
5|As always great Apple product!! Lot of Hard Drive storage..
5|I was a little nervous about spending so much on a laptop considering the ones that are out now but after I received my MacBook Pro I am so glad. It has absolutely everything I need and all the money I would've probably spent on other items such as cd/DVD drive and word applications, I don't have to worry about with my laptop. There is so much to learn with it and I am learning something new each day. So glad I got it!
5|I have been waiting to upgrade to the MacBook Pro for a while. Best Black Friday purchase i made. Love the design and applications the computer supplies. Great Purchase!!!
5|Purchased this computer for my son for Christmas. He needed another computer because his old one finally died. Heard nothing but great things about the pro mac from everyone I spoke with and they last for years. My son loves it!
5|Great product. I was satisfied on how well it wokred. Well still is working. I recomend it
5|It's a great product. I am looking forward to buy more Apple products.
4|I bought this laptop first but changed my mind-to the MacBook Air (newer product).
5|Great purchase. My niece is getting ready to go to college and this was her choice for her computer to use.
5|Another great computer from Apple. Perfect for my needs!
5|I've been using macs for years. I've never had one die on me, and only ever had to send one in for repair of a defective touchpad. This new Mac book pro is just as great as ever.
4|Love my new MacBook Pro. My old MacBook was 6 years old. You never know how great upgrades are until you get them.
5|Easy to use and seems durable. Hopefully it last for the price you pay.
5|Apple MacBook Pro is the best to use, to carry, and for every thing.
5|So impressed with the weight, or lack thereof, of this macbook pro. Since I store everything on flash drives, I didn't need a CD drawer and so glad I made that choice. For presentations, it came with a connection port for a HDMI cord which works great! Coworkers marvel at how fast it is when I open it and immediately can begin working. They have Windows-based laptops and have to wait and wait for them to boot.
5|This computer is very user friendly. Set up was simple. It goes above and beyond what I would expect for a laptop. It makes calls through FaceTime, takes photos, and does everything our iPad does plus more.
4|This is a really nice laptop. I bought it for my wife and she loves it. The only down part is that it is a heavy laptop.
5|Sleek computer, great speed and performance. Easy to use
5|Bought 2 Mac book pro online for Xmas gifts. They are awesome!
4|I love the MacBook Pro but have a learning curve coming from a Windows laptop.
4|So far I really like the computer. I have had a few problems migrating stuff to the new laptop but I am going to have to resolve that with apple.
4|I love apple and mac products they are so much better than other laptops I have had
5|Great product at a great price no cons. Apple products are the best
5|Bought this laptop for my daughter because her old dell laptop just wasn't making it anymore.
5|This was my first Mac purchase and I'm officially hooked for life! I will never own anything else! SOOO much nicer than windows!
5|The Macbook Pro is user friendly, and I love the preinstalled apps.
5|best decision i made. I had a pc before and i think it wasn't as good.
4|We needed a new laptop for our household do standard internet, but more advanced photo management, syncing with our other apple products for a seamless experience.
5|Great laptop, easy to get used to. Love the speed of the computer.
5|Very simple to set up and use. Compatibility with my other i devices is very useful and easy. I use my computer pretty often for music and mixing so i like that the speakers on the computer are loud and clear with good bass. Screen is wide &amp;amp; clear. Over all a great laptop.
5|This is a great laptop loaded with features. There is virtually no setup required. Just boot if up and your ready to go.
5|Great camera. Made an awsome Christmas gift. Awsome
5|Love it!!! Has totally helped my son with his studies in college and has kept him organized and ready to take on college life
5|My son is extremely pleased with his new Macbook pro.
5|Awesome performance top quality. Would recommend highly
5|i love this laptop. I would recommend to a friend for this price
5|I've never owned a laptop and I desperately needed one. It was one sale for Black Friday, great product for the value.
5|What else needs to be said. It is working beyond my expectations. It only take a little adjusting since I've always had PC.
5|Are you kidding...MacBook Pro. It is excellent. Buy It.
5|This is our second one . Great machine . Got it on sale Black Friday sale 899.00.
5|awesome performance, fits my need &amp;amp; excellent look n fill
4|The macbook pro is great for students like me. I am very happy with my purchase.
5|This is my second MacBook Pro and I really like them!
5|Great battery life, good digital display, and lightweight. I use the MacBook for school, surfing the internet and basic school project.
5|I got a Great product at a great price!! The MacBook was put on sale the next day and I got a price adjustment without any hassle.
5|Great laptop easy to use You can't go wrong with apple products I'm soo glad we decided on an mac pro book instead of an hp
3|All Apple products are simple easy-to-use always been a great gift I have may have products very fast mirror and the proms with bugs love the machine and I would reckonMan Apple products to anyone especially a beginner because you can start on the best machine. And I like I can link your phone anti-was everything
5|By far the best laptop that I had, I highly recommend this laptop, beautiful product.
5|Love it love it love it love it love it love it love it
4|I got a great deal on my iBook, I'm very happy with it.
5|The laptop meets my expectations. I have never owned a MacBook Pro before but it runs smoothly and is the perfect size.
5|I like the sleek look, it's lightweight. Easy to use.
5|I bought the MacBook pro for my daughter for a Christmas present. We choose this because the newer ones don't come with the cd drive. It was a good price and has turned out to be a great computer.
5|This computer was a great price. I love Apple products!
4|Bought a PC,1 week later exchanged for MAC. Best decision I ever made!!! Love my MAC!!!! Sooo worth the investment!!!!! HATED PC &amp;amp; windows!!!!!! Will NEVER go back!
5|I always like mac products, this is my second mac laptop . the first one I bought in 2008 and it was working so good.
4|i would recomend this mac pro because it is kind of affordable and life time computer from Apple.
5|The battery life on this laptop is way better than my old computer.
4|Great computer for a beginner users with Apple products. Ideal for high schoolers and college students.
5|This is my first MAC and I really like it so far. One of the things I really like is the feeling of the keyboard when I type. Much better than my other laptops.
5|User friendly. Enjoying. My son loves it. Good investment.
4|I luv the design, the only bad thing is the HD capability
5|I am a first time Mac user and really like the user friendliness of the product. I have used the applecare support and found it very helpful as well.
4|The computer meets all my needs but is a little slower than I expected. I thought it would be lightning fast but isn't too much faster than my old Mac. The battery does not last long at all which was very surprising to me. I'm wondering if there is a program running in the background that is draining the battery so quickly. However, overall I'm happy with it and would give it a B rating.
5|The computer works great. We haven't had any issues with it and it has everything we need.
5|I only purchase apple products, need I say any more.
4|I'm really enjoying this computer and it's running fantasticly. It was definitely worth the money that I spent.
5|Better than I even expected! No issues works perfectly.
5|I have been wanting to buy computer for a while now. Great computer expecially when it is $200 off.
4|Once you get used to using this you don't wanna use any other computer!!
4|Been eyeing the MacBook for a while. Shipped quickly, works great! Still learning how to navigate a little, having been a pc user for so long. Very happy so far!
5|This isn't too big or too small. Even without the Retina, it is perfect for editing pictures! I absolutely love it for all uses--scrapbooking, streaming videos &amp;amp; music, browsing internet, etc!
5|this was a Christmas gift and she was VERY excited
5|This is a good MacBook. You can do almost anything on it.
5|I upgraded my computer to 16 gigs RAM and it runs super fast.
5|This was my first mac computer. It has been very easy to learn. I love how the touchpad can perform many different functions. Built well. I also love the backlit keyboard. I would definitely recommend this computer.
4|tell me is and great buy and a good equipment from apple
5|Bought this computer for my college student. She has wanted a Mac since high school. She loves it!!
5|Great MacBook and the employees are really helpful and knowledgeable about the products
5|I would recommend this to young or old. Very easy to use, lots of hard storage, virus protected, can unload pics etc from cell phone! Great all around!
5|Great product for all the work i have to do. Never leave the house with out it.
5|I love it better then pc still learning the fundamental but doesnt take long
5|After years of PC I am switching to Mac, now I can easily share with other Mac users in my family.
5|Apple products are always good. If you have any issues you can just take it to Apple and get it fixed
5|love this laptop..fast easy to use! i highly reccomend this comp never loses its value
5|Love it so far. using it everyday learning more about this product.
5|Great quality..always wanted a Mac and so pleased I spent the money to get my MacBook Pro! Sooo worth it!
5|I love my mac pro. I use it while I am at college.
5|Nice size, fast processor and screen resolution. Easy to set up and use.
5|Great experience. The sales associates were very helpful
5|After looking at other lap top, I am more than excited over more apple lap top the best ever
5|I can from a Pc to a Mac and love the change great prodyct
5|Apple is known for making excellent quality products and their Macbook Pro line shows it. Durable and made of excellent quality no plastic and with updated Intel processors the laptop is made for any use.
5|Each time i have a grandchild graduate i try to get them a mac to help them with college work. They all want the macpro.
5|Computer solidly built, works excellently. Would def recommend to a friend.
5|We bought this laptop for our 15 year old to do work and be able to easily transport to school and group meetings. He loves it. It was easy to set up. It hooked up wirelessly to our printer with no problem. We waited a long time to find the right laptop at the right price and this fit the bill perfectly.
5|This laptop looks and feels better than most not to mention the speed and ease of use. Will get Apple TV for synch of all my Apple products.
4|After years of wanting a MacBook I finally stopped being cheap and purchase my first MacBook!! I have been a PC user for years and do not like I will go back! I am so in love at the moment and everyday I am learning my new "Toy." I love new gadgets!! You will not be disappointed with your purchase!
5|My daughter loves her laptop. It's nice and sleek. Has great piture clarity
5|I got really sick of Windows 8 &amp;amp; finally switched to mac. I am in love.
5|Excellent laptop that is fast and reliable. I would definitely recommend any macbook!
5|Bought as a gift for my daughter. She loves it. Ease of setup and use, Mac OS superior as usual. No problems.
5|The best computer money can buy!!!! This thing does all you could want and more!!
4|We have enjoyed our purchase, but we were very happy to get black Friday pricing because price was too much without it.
4|Good for everyday use for the avg consumer. Display quality is great, camera is solid and over build quality is solid. Although later on, upgrading ram and hard drive would be preferable
5|I got this to replace my Mid-2009 Macbook that had gotten a little too old to keep using. I got a good deal since it was on sale for Black Friday.
5|Good Product. Worth the price. Best shopping experience.
5|This is my first Macbook. It performs better than all the PCs I have.
5|I got my MacBook Pro with amazing deal and performance!!!
4|Great new features. Much better battery life than my previous laptop. Has all the things I need
5|Bought it last Black Friday and i love it. First time mac user and still figuring out and hope to know my way around in this laptop...Hope it will last long...got a good deal on it.....having hard time on the mousepad and planning to buy wireless mouse...got a good deal on it and highly recommended...love love love it so much...
4|I think an apple product don't need any advertisment!! It will really good deal when it has any percent off.
5|The best so far of all laptops used. Portable to handle.
5|I bought this macbook with huge discount on black friday. I received within four days. This macbook has longer battery life. I don't care even if I forget my charger in college. I love pages and numbers to work with.
5|Man this is an awesome computer I can definitely recommend everyone is very fast and what I need to search and it's got a lot of tools already
5|My first MacBook and I love it. Super fast and very easy to use.
4|I like it a lot but still new for that. There are many thing for me to learn.
5|Our new MacBook Pro is an excellent laptop. Fast and powerful enough for every use. I love it!
5|My daughter loves her new laptop!! It's working great and she's already a pro since Apple products are so easy!
4|I bought this computer about 3 weeks ago. So far it's a very good computer. My only issue is the battery life is not the best when browsing or using the website. I find it uses more energy when using the web compare to my Toshiba laptop but overall it's a good computer.
5|Customer Service was great. I couldn't have gotten a deal such as this at the Apple Store.
5|Very happy with purchase. Great laptop for everyday use
5|Got this for $200 less on Black Friday, can't beat the savings on it
5|This is my first Mac I have ever own coming from Microsoft windows. I needed an operating system that is reliable and dependable and so far this Mac has earned my 5 stars as a reliable product. I'm glad I made the switch.
5|great laptop for everything that i need to do with what i do. plus i am an apple fan almost every computer in the house is made by apple.
5|excellent computer that is fast and easy to use. After using a toshiba laptop computer for many years, this apple product is a real pleasure and so is the operating system.
4|Hope down the price from any competitive laptop since all Apple products are expensive.
4|I finally decided to switch to a MacBook from PC. I got the MacBookPro because it was in my budget and I wanted a new laptop for my photography. I haven't had the chance to explore it too much but I like it so far.
5|This is my second Macbook and like the enhancement done in the all the applications.
5|Apple fan boy all the way!! Love my MacBook pro and got it on sale so that is a bonus!
5|I used this laptop for about a month now and I feel like it is perfect for me. It takes a little getting used to if ur coming from a windows computer but nothing too bad. I don't think I will be switching back to a windows computer any time soon.
5|Great deal, great laptop, my kid love it, excellente
5|Works awesome. Shipping was quick. Easy set up. Overall good laptop.
5|I want another one at the price I paid on Black Friday!!! It's a great computer....
5|Great laptop. Works fast and efficient. Delivered very fast.
5|It's great computer , fast bright, lots to do in it and easy to use. Best lap top I've ever used worth money.
5|A well built computer, very good battery life, and a solid operating system. What more could you want from a laptop?
4|Product as expected. Reliable computer with features needed.
5|Ima student and need a computer that can keep up this max does everything I need and more
5|I love my Mac book air so efficient and fast. Never freezes
5|No 1 macbook pro in the world, fast speed, nd great look!!!!!!
5|The MacBook pro is incredible I had a HP...and I never knew how bad the quality of my laptop was until I used the mac book. .I would recommend this computer to everyone.you may pay a little more for an apple..but it's is well worth the extra money. .
5|fast shipping and best item?easy to find the laptop that i need and fast check out
5|Great computer and love how it integrates all my apple products.
4|User friendly...high tech...lightweight...large memory
5|Gr8 laptop.. best for apple fans who donot want to spend more!!!
4|i have been using apple product for the longest time. My gf wanted to try out the apple labtop, so i bought her this one. Easy to setup, great for new user. The only one thing she doesnt like is the power cord is big compare to other labtop brand
4|It's sleek and portable .worth the money and easy to use
5|This is the perfect computer for my son it is the one he chose and we got an awesome buy on it due to black Friday couldn't be happier!!
5|Fast, efficient and i love the LED lighting on the key board. Still has a built in CD player which is very useful
5|The Pro is living to expectations! So far wonderful notebook! Highly recommend.
4|Just moved from the old macbook white to the pro--pretty seamless transition. didn't need all the bells and whistles but just want a good reliable mac. This seems to fit the bill. Only been using it for a little while but so far so good--a few things too fancy for my taste and a little too fussy on the set up but we seem to be in good shape now. I would and have recommended macbooks to friends.
5|Love my new computer! Does everything I need in a new computer.
5|Have been an Apple user since college in the late 80s. The Mac then was amazing for its time. This MacBook is even better. It's the third we own in our house. Only caution is the latests OS Yosemite did not come installed. Easy enough to do, but time-consuming
5|This is my first apple product and found it easy to set up and figure out how to use. Good Bye PC!
5|awesome computer for a good price. I would def. recommend this mac to a friend.
5|My first Apple laptop. Works great so far. Highly recommended.
5|Very user friendly and good features.I got this for thanks giving for 900$.It was very helpful for my exams and fast . I love apple products and you will not regret buying this.Would definitely recommend this :)
5|Great laptop for school, especially those who go to college.
5|Wonderful laptop with many programs to use already programmed in. A little heavy, but easy to travel with. This is good for people in need of a everyday laptop.
5|Got this on sale. its small but works great. A great change from the PC.
4|This seems to be a good computer. It is my first Mac, so just getting the hang of it.
5|This is my first mac book. It's easy to use. I have other apple products and this is the best by far.
5|Transitioned from a PC to a Mac and love this computer!
5|all the quality you would expect from apple. This is my second macbook, and after 5 years with my previous model I decided to upgrade to the macbook pro from my macbook unibody. What I love about about my macbook is reliability. Never slowed down, never crashes, and I never have been affected by viruses. I love the touchpad, once you learn all of the finger gestures navigating to OS is a breeze.
5|We brought this for our son. He likes and use it for his school.
5|Apple macbook is great. Worked perfectly out of the box
5|got a great deal on this, works great; super fast and battery efficient. Also love that all my devices connect with ease now.
5|Great camera for a beginner. My review (minnum required characters left: 0)
5|I love the mac, they are great c9mputers, no complaints
4|I bought this with the mindset that MacBooks were superior over PC laptops. The first thing I noticed was that it ran too slowly. It would take 30-60 seconds to load an application and felt laggy overall. Twice it crashed on me. As a PF debater, i found it cumbersome and too slow to find files quickly in order to show files for proof to my opponents. I'm currently trying to get a replacement to see if this was an isolated event. But for now, my HP dv5t of 6 years seems to run just as fast if not faster and smoother. I was told that the reason for it being slow was because it had the old HDD storage system (disk) instead of the newer SSD (chip) like te newer MacBooks. But those are way too expensive for very little data (128-256GB).
5|This is my first Mac, still working on the learning curve after using a PC for so long. But I love it, putting photos on the Macbook from my digital camera was amazing...my kids laughed when I said it was "magic" how fast it works....they said, "no, Mom, it's modern technology!"
5|Over the years this is my third Mac and its everything I expected and then some.
5|I'm very satisfied with my purchase. The staff was so helpful.
5|I am really happy with my new Macbook Pro. I had a previous Macbook that was several years old, but this new one is so much more user-friendly. I love the far greater capacity, which makes for more usefulness to me. I'm into photography, and I enjoy iPhoto for my initial editing and improvements. I'm still exploring the features, but so far, so good!!
5|Got this as a Christmas present. First MAC computer.
5|My daughter loved it!!!! Very fast, does all school work on it
4|This computer is everything I have been wanting. It's easy to use, not too heavy, and has everything I was looking for when purchasing a new laptop. I would definitely recommend this for anyone!
5|This computer is great. It might not be retina but the quality is as great as the other models. Apple products are awesome!
5|Love this laptop. Napoleon computers are the best and the size of 13" works best for this 55 year old eyes
5|Great product. Apple stands by their product if anything goes wrong or you don't like it unlike window who will charge you all these crazy fees before they even know what's wrong with it. I'll never buy a windows computer again after the Mac expierence.
5|This was the perfect system for me. Although the new models have more capabilities and slightly newer technology, they were much more costly. I wanted an internal dvd drive (versus having to carry one around) and this is the only model that still had that capability. I was able to upgrade easily to 16GB RAM and a 512GB solid state hard drive for under $350 which with the great Black Friday sale ended up costing less than what this computer sells for retail. Easily upgradable with lots of YouTube videos and websites to provide help. With these upgrades, boots and operates super fast. Yosemite upgrade was easy and I've had no issues. I absolutely love this system and would highly recommend it.
5|I have been hesitant about getting a MAC. I am so glad I did. It's easy to use &amp;amp; stores all my important files
4|I've only had this Apple MacBook Pro for the past two days. So far, so good. Prior to this, I've used Toshiba, HP, Dell, and a myriad of other units. However, as I have an iPad, iPhone, and iPod, I thought I'd venture into the world of Apple Computers. The keyboard is spaced well and easy to type on. I am having to take some time to get used to the differences and nuances between the laptop and powerbook platforms. I can't imagine that it would be much different if I had went with another HP. I do love my HP computers and currently have an HP desktop, which works well...but my old laptop was sluggish, kept crashing, and just wasn't operating well...I don't do a lot of work from home. Most of my time with this MAC will be paying bills, shopping, checking email, and surfing the web. I'm sure it will be more than adequate for those tasks. Having the iCloud on this intuitively sync and know the information on my other Apple devices has been a nice feature and one I will get a lot of use from. I will try to update this review as I learn more about this new device.
5|Great price apple makes a great product. No complaints
5|Have not been let down! This is my fist Mac and I am in love!
3|Good basic laptop. I like the fact that you can upgrade the memory and hard drive.
5|great speed comes with all the program I needed. Excellent picture quality
5|This was our 1st Macbook and it was so worth it! well worth the $$ spent!
5|I want to star by saying that this is best laptop I have owned, we love it very much.
5|This laptop is a great machine for it's size. Got it around Black Friday and Couldn't believe how low the price was... Really happy with this product.
5|This is my first mac laptop. I love it. People always say that if you have been using windows system for a long time, you won't be used to mac system. However, for me, I don't see that part. I get to be familiar with mac system very fast. Now I love using my macbook all the time. and it's very good that if you have an iphone. You can send message and answer your phone through mac now. I recommend this too people who love apple stuff.
5|Great machine and very powerful and stylish too. It works great, and is very fast. The operating system is very easy to get used to as well.
5|This laptop is pretty fast and it's lightweight which makes it easy to carry around.
5|This was a great upgrade from my 2008 MacBook. Never disappointed with Apple products.
5|I love my computer. It's great. Does everything I need it to. Just wish it had a better pop up blocker.
5|So glad I went to Apple. I did pay online pickup in store. Was great!
5|Black Friday made this a deal I couldn't pass up to replace my old MacBook. Even though it was an older model its a total workhorse.
4|First mac n I really like it, fast and great display
5|My daughter has really enjoyed her Mac book pro.. It's great . It's has the built in hard drive so that's a big plus for her.
5|Everything that I expected, and more. My first Mac purchase, and I have been thoroughly impressed.
5|Mom and my son had a great time on it . It was an easy set up for her .
5|Another great Apple product! I own a Mac &amp;amp; Macbook pro &amp;amp; will never buy another brand computer. Great products!
5|I bought this laptop for my wife, i liked this one better because it had an actual ethernet port. Myy wife likes all apple products, she enjoys using all different apps, between laptop, iphone 6 and apple TV.
5|I bought it on Black Friday 2014. It works very good and faster and nice display. I would like to recommend this laptop to everyone who wants this laptop.
5|Mac book pro is a very compact pc for all the day to day computing needs, and it's user friendly and reliable in every way.
5|I truly love my MacBook Pro! It works wonders, I use it every day!
5|First macbook and it's amazing! Got it on black friday for a good deal and everyone should own a macbook. #lifechanging
5|Purchased this for a graduation present early since it was such a great buy.
4|It's a little overwhelming at first but it's so smooth and so high quality.
5|Thiis is an excellent laptop for school use. It is used both for my job, school and home. My children use it to do their homework on a daily basis.
5|its the first time i am using macbook and really happy with it
5|So far, so good. Screen is a little small. I usually get PC's with 15 inch screens, but after dealing with PC after PC, I was convinced a Mac would not give me the same issues with viruses, slow, etc. So I am giving it a try. I would like the bigger screen, but for almost double the price, 2 inches isn't worth it. I will work with the 13 inch Mac instead of the 15 inch Mac. No complaints so far....
5|I use to be anti Apple for the longest. I thought I would try out a mac when they were on sale. Everytime I use it, the more I forget about windows pc. While macs are not for everyone, especially gamers, they are clean and efficient machines to do many activities.
5|Excellent Product! This was my first MacBook (I already had other apple products and loved them!). Very easy to use.
5|I have always been a big fan of Mac computers.This is my second computer and I highly recommend this product.
1|Hard dish crashes for this mac pro. Apple says only this laptop has magnetic hard drive. And it crashes if you travel woth this laptop alot. But i dont travel much. Still hard disk crashed two times a year. Unfortunatly my warrenty was expired and i have to pay for new hard drive. Then after 2 months again crashes my new hard drive. So I will recomend everyone please dont go with MacPro. You can buy anyother mac laptop others are gud , they dont have this magnetic hard drive. You should be gud.
5|Enjoy my Mac Pro thoroughly. It takes a little time to get used to, but am enjoying the product.
4|I have always had a different brand of computer. This is a new brand and hasn't been hard to learn how to use. Has been great so far.
5|My daughter absolutely loves her new Mac Book Pro. Was very easy to set up.
5|Great product as usual. Apple makes one of the best products on the market.
5|I've wanted a MacBook Pro for years. Now I have one and it's love at first use. It's perfect!
5|I absolutely love this laptop! The quality of what you get is definitely worth the price!
4|This camera has a great feature with a swivel screen u can take selfies and the shutter is so fast it's incredible. excellent megapixels.
5|Very fast. Sharp pictures. A little difficult getting used to a Mac since I have never had one before but I like it better so far. Loving how fast it uploads and starts up!
4|Bought this to replace my windows laptop. has been good. The battery doesn't last long if you are actively using a program. Would recommend for a cost effective alternative to a windows laptop
5|it was quick and easy to purchase this product. I would definitely recommend it to my friends.
4|This is a great computer for what I need. I wish it had more space on the hard drive and included Office. I purchased Office separately and installed it without problems. My biggest wish is that iMovie would allow you to burn a DVD after making a video. Apparently the older models allowed this, but they no longer make them with that feature.
1|27 days after purchase I was unable to open my MacBook, it completely died. I was able to return it but the worst part was that I had to pay to get my stuff transferred off device! Not happy.
5|Unlike Widows based computers, it just works. You don't have to go through and turn off unwanted services and startup items when you first set it up. Works great for recording music.
5|Mac book is very good to use display is awsome and it is very good.
5|This computer has worked great for me so far. Easy to figure out and set up.
5|my daughter loves her new laptop. Never had a mac book before. see how it goes!
5|Great computer. Highly recommend. Love it so much. Syncs great with the rest of my families Apple products
4|I previously had the mac book from 2009 and I finally upgraded and I couldn't be happier with this purchase.
5|This is so what I wanted and I am so very glad to have it!!!
5|We bought this for an 11 year old. Low maintenance and issue free! The only reminder is with its LED wide screen the protectors are not usually in stock in store.
5|Shopped high and low and this was the best deal on a 13" MacBook
5|I'm very happy with this laptop. Should be a great computer for college.
5|Very cool Laptop, easy to use, easy to surf online, super laptop boost with plenty power
5|This Macbook is fantastic!! Extremely easy to get set up and started. I would be foolish to buy anything else!
4|I had to buy to cooler . It runs out if battery too quick.
5|This laptop is perfect for my daughter to carry around in her backpack with her books around campus. It's not as light or thin as the Air, but the trade off for smaller/lighter versus (slightly) bigger/practical is minimal.
5|This is my 3rd Mac and first MacBook Pro and it is even better than I expected. In my experience Mac hold up over time well, are easy to use, apple has great warranties and quick repairs, and overall it is just a reliable computer. I find I want/need to upgrade my Macs every 3+ years but my old Mac is still running fine.
4|Nothing like a Mac. Great quality with lots of years to use before it needs an update.
5|It's a Mac and can't say much more about it. i bought it as a gift and the recipient loves it. IT was a great price for me.
5|Initially I was very reluctant to hop on the Mac bandwagon but the more accustomed I become with my Macbook Pro, the more I realize why people love it so much. I'm a graphic designer and the clarity of the display is phenomenal.
5|I love everything about this computer. I recommend it to anyone who is considering buying one.
5|Running 3 Mac computers with parallel's software running Windows 10. These are awesome! My PC used to crash every day running high graphics programs like Acad, Revit and even Visio. Have not had a crash in two years with the Mac.
5|This is my second macbook, first one had it for over 7 years, rarely had a problem with it. Apple is my best choice, excellent product as well as nice design.
5|awesome computer. Easy to use. Clear picture and sound
5|U cant get anything better thn tht. Its totally worth spending money on it.
5|This is my third Mac, and they keep getting better
5|Hands down one of the best investments I've made. Love it!
4|I really like my new Mac. Connects well with my wifi
4|Love this MacBook! Easy to use and very eye appealing. The only thing I wish it was just alittle lighter. I did not choose the MacBook Retina because that did not have a DVD slot along with it.
5|Great Product. Easy to use. I got my money's worth.
5|Awesome computer for everyday use and powerful enough to support the Adobe products as well.
5|Second Pro and fourth Apple laptop I have bought in the last 15 months. My frustration of dealing with slow has ended.
4|Good for college student, purchased for better security
5|This laptop is very fast, so glad I made the choice to buy it.
5|The computer was a Christmas gift for my 15 year old daughter. She loves it. It is quick and everything she wanted.
5|I would recommend this computer to anyone looking for something fun and easy to use.
5|It's pretty awesome but needs to have more software intergration to it.
5|This was exactly what my daughter wanted. Got it for a great price.
4|It is a great computer to use, at least so far. I had so many laptops since the beginning of college (this is the 5th one) and I like it the most. However, I gave it 4 instead of 5 stars because of the mouse. With other laptops, I can just click very gently on the mouse for left click but it is not like that with this Macbook.
5|Great laptop brought 2 for sons in college. Very relable and easy to use.
5|I just received this macbook for christmas and i love the way it works beautifully with my iPhone and iPad! It is a great computer for the price for sure.
5|Our kids have been using Apple laptop for 8 years now and this is the 3rd one we have. Kids are very comfortable with them.
5|this product is the best .. it works at any level possible, everyone can pick one and get it right away... i love it because everything i need to do the apple has it ... this product is so worth it getting it
5|im a macbook pro lover i love all the specs of mac
5|I've found that this laptop is very easy to navigate and the setup was a breeze. The program tells you step-by-step how to get your information from your old machine, and it also provides help to finalize your settings. The operating system is so intuitive and easy to use, as well.
5|Laptop is great. Kids were very happy with them. Would definitely recommend
5|I was deciding whether to get this or a MacBook air and this was the best choice, runs fast, easy to use. Good purchase on Black Friday for 899
4|Great Laptop and awesome deal. I wish there was a similar deal on the latest MacBooks.
5|I bought this to update my old white macbook that's about 5 years old. Of course, compared to my old laptop this one is amazing. I think for the price, this is one of the best purchases out there.
5|This is definitely worth the money, A great choice
5|This machine seems so solid and has every capability I need. I am so happy with this purchase, the quality, and the price!
5|The best ever, in Love with it ;), good for home or work.
5|My first MacBook it took a little time to get used to after windows. But I like it.
4|I purchased the second MacBook cause my child wanted it, but I hope this one lasts longer than the previous one since the hard drive of the first one broke just in one year after purchase.
5|Easy set up and user friendly. Love apple products and their support team
5|MacBook Pro is great! It was harder to get used to than an iPhone but I love it now that I have taken the time to use it more.
5|I really like the Mac Pro, it is different to use but really starts up nicely and is a cool computer, much faster than Microsoft Windows based.
4|I purchased this computer during a black friday sale. Researched the product before buying and this was a great deal. Only had it a couple of days because it was a xmas gift but so far so good.
5|Great product, good battery life, and easy to use. My first apple laptop.
5|Great computer for my new profession no complaints
5|I am extremely happy with this computer. I love the design and the speed as well as all of the features. I have always used Mac computers and would never think of using anything else.
5|The non retina one had a dvd drive so I didn't have to get a separate external one which is a big plus. The laptop is perfect for travel not as light as a tablet but ok.
5|Great product that what purchased for college atudsnt. Will work great for him.
5|Love it. Easy to navigate. User friendly. Great options
5|I love the item I purchased. It is a great product from a company with a stellar reputation
5|Bought it as a christmas gift for my son. He loves it and everything has been great with it so far.
5|Once again Apple has produced an awesome product. This has actually completed my switch to an all Apple House!
5|Well worth the extra money. Apple is just so much better. No viruses to ever worry about. Can't go wrong @ $899
4|Great laptop. Cd drive is useful. A little heavy compared to other models
5|I purchased a smaller Sharp TV several years ago. When I wanted to upgrade to a larger model, I went with the same brand. This helped simplify everything.
5|Amazing! Super spoiled lol it's a great product and great size! Recieved for birthday
5|No issues with my laptop I love it. Its very fast and efficient
5|Made the move back to Apple in 2008 and have never looked back since. The tight integration between hardware and software makes Apple computers, OS X, and their entire ecosystem the most pleasant experience for working, playing, and living. The 13" MacBook Pro has a lot of horsepower under the hood but in a small, light, and compact form factor. Everything is well thought out in the design of this laptop, and nothing feels cramped or forced. This has been and will continue to be my go-to machine.
5|The last laptop we had was a Mac and it lasted 5-6 years, which seemed pretty good compared to what most people go through. We've had this computer for 2 months now and love it!
5|This computer is fantastic! I love the long battery life and storage capacity!
5|This product is awesome and I would recommend it to anyone
5|After trying so many computers the Mac is def the best one. It's portable. It's easy. It's RELIABLE. everything else failed me 100% of the time.
5|I will recommend this laptop it is fast and fine I am a graphic designer and my work required many details, therefore this laptop help me achieved my tasks
5|My daughter uses the Apple Mac products at her school. She had asked for a Mac Book for some time! The expression on her face when she opened her gift was priceless! The computer is exactly what she needs for her assignments as well as projects for her classes! I definitely would recommend this product to anyone.
5|So far this case has been a great camera. I haven't had a chance to play with it much because it's my Christmas present :)
3|I bought this laptop for my wife. She wanted the dvd drive and larger hard drive. Upon using it and comparing it to the Macbook Pro Retina I bought for myself she decided she liked my computer better. The screen quality on the Retina is much better and the Flash storage, although Apple charges way to much for storage upgrades, is much faster. We ended up returning it and exchanging it for a Retina Macbook and she couldn't be happier.
4|My son really liked his gift - thank you very much
5|This laptop is great. I have never owned my own but I have used others. This is the best choice I could have made for laptops.
5|This computer is great and is just what I wanted.XXX
5|Great Computer i absolute love this Mac by far the best i ever had
5|Own a Mac desktop and needed s laptop. Our desktop has never given us any trouble in 5 years. Had to stick with Mac. Love it.
5|Much easier than Windows 8. Only draw back, be prepared to buy the necessary adapters for HDMI/VGA if you need them
5|Bought for my daughter she loves it. This computer will last her to her graduation from High School
5|we are extremely pleased with our MacBooks!!!!!!!!!!
5|Excited for Christmas morning to see the look on my teenagers face
5|It is easy to navigate. Its got a great camera. I wouldn't go back to any other computer other than an apple. I love using it and haven't had any problems. I used to have so many with my other even the first day of having it. Now I have this computer and I couldn't be more satisfied!
5|I have never owned a MAC before and was not sure if I wanted one, but I am so glad that I finally tried one. It has far exceeded all of my expectations. I have linked it to all of my other Apple devices and I feel that I am always connected and I no longer worry about missing out on notifications and updates from friends and family. I have also been extremely pleased and impressed with the connection speed and ease of use of the MACBOOK PRO. I love my MAC.
5|My daughter will use the macbook in college. She loves it
5|I wasn't a MAC fan but after only 2 days with this laptop, I am very satisfied.
5|This is my fifth Mac: my first was an original iMac in 1999, my previous a MacBook in 2008. It reflects the amount of progress one would expect. This purchase was part of an office-wide switch of emphasis from Windows/IBM-standard to Mac and Linux after having gotten hit by ransomware two years in a row. This machine is a bit small for the user who runs multiple programs at the same time, unless one can have a second machine networked to it on the same desk or coffee table. Fortunately, I have the latter option. I would buy it again.
5|I just made the switch to the macbook after years of a pc. Love that the software is already installed and ready to go. Love the ease of interface. Got this one cause I still needed the optical drive. Love that is easily one of inter faces with my phone and iPad. I won't go back to pc
5|This MacBook is great, easy to use, and a you don't need antivirus software
5|It's so simple to use and it gets the job done I recommend it to anyone
5|I am used to the PC so, it took some getting used to. I wouldn't go back. I'm a mac girl now.
4|Don't handle the lenses for my camera I was looking for
5|This is our second MacBook Pro. It's the perfect balance between something that is too small to see or type on easily, and a big, heavy full-size laptop. Light, sleek, and high performance. And we were in and out of the store within 10 minutes because we knew what we wanted and the sales person knew how to get it for us!
5|Love this computer. So much easier to use than windows. Feels like is better made, also.
5|It's a great laptop for school work and for whatever you want to do with the laptop.
5|Love it! So much easier to use, and always comes in handy.
5|This was for my son who is 15. It's perfect for him and his needs .
5|Great battery life. It is compatible with all my devices.
5|Super fast delivery! Bought this for my son for Christmas ! I'm sure he will love it!
4|Easy to use, in good shape, good weight, good performance.
5|This is by far the best computer I have ever used.
5|Husband loves it. Got it for him for christmass. He use it over seas. Loves the FaceTime.
5|Great laptop. Nice sleek design and pretty fast. Had to replace my old white MacBook. Best deal out of all the MacBooks.
5|Happy with the mac, I will give 5 start but the only bad thing is when you use the Air Play with an apple TV. the video lags. there is a forum opened on the apple website for over a year and still apple has not fixed the issue.
5|For Mac, it really doesn't get any better than this. The screen is fantastic, the OS is responsive, and it looks fantastic. I would absolutely purchase again!
5|Mac is the only way to go. Worth the extra money. They last for 10 plus years.
5|Love it!!! This MacBook pro is eveything i wanted and more.
5|This is a fantastic laptop for anyone who is looking for a sturdy apple with a superdrive. Most laptops have no dvd/cd drive, but it is a good feature for those who have dvds or cds that they want to add to their itunes library. Has 4 gb RAM and 500 gb hard drive, more than enough for all your photos, music, movies, etc.
1|Bought this computer when there was 10% back in points deal going on and only received 5% back. Called customer service every 5 days being guaranteed that the points would be added to my account and now over 30 days later, still not there. I call customer service and they have no record of what details have been "added" to my account. Do not recommend purchasing any big ticket items expecting to save a buck.
5|I am loving the speed of this, I love the size, and I like that it looks sleek, but still proper for work. Have been using it everyday and have been loving it!
5|I've been a PC user since the days of MS-DOS up until Windows 8. I do everything from vdo editing to music recording and I've always had issues one way or another with Windows. Finally, after convincing myself to give the MacBook a try and the $899 price tag along with it, I pulled the trigger. Let me say that I am extremely satisfied with it's performance. I've already created movies and recorded live music sessions with it and not one issue so far. The track pad is definitely a step up from Windows. Hard to say but I've fallen in love the Team Mac. You will not regret.
5|I LOVE THIS ITEM EXCELLENT CAMARA, FAST EASY TO USE
4|I took a long time to switch from PC to Mac. I am glad I did. However, a word of warning to late bloomers like myself - there is so much to learn to become the expert I was on the PC especially with my heavy usage work processing and presentation software....
5|Excellent product, very user friendly. I bought this product for my daughter and I can't wait to buy one for myself.
5|Love the app store features for personalization. Love iphoto. Great durability and imaging. Very compatible for the requirements of college life.
5|I had a macbook in college and due to it's age was wearing out and starting to have problems. got the newer one and it is even better. Transferring all my old files and programs was super easy and it is running great
5|Great computer with all the features I could ask for.
5|First LAPTOP MAC PRODUCT and love it...........especially with the Word Application
5|Ok seriously I've been wanting to be team all apple for like ever so there's that.
5|I have owned a number of laptops, but this is the easiest one to use that I have ever owned.
5|Bought the laptop for school and it was all that I expected. Light. Easy and super long battery.
5|I love love love this computer! This is my first Macbook. I have always used PC's and was sick of all of the typical issues with them getting bogged down and simply not lasting. The battery life is amazing! It is so nice to just being able to use a laptop with out pop ups from everything. Apple's customer service is great. Although I have not had to use it with this MacBook I have an iPhone and the customer service with it was great. Don't hesitate if you are thinking of switching.
5|I am beyond thrilled with this product. It is truly amazing and worth every penny. I love it.
5|Excellent graphics, fast , lightweight and nice features
5|Bought 2 MacBook so far. Ma office works on the new OS X like charm. Own most Apple products. No complaints. Happy so far.
4|I love the computer. It's my first new one in over six years and I love it.
5|As far ease of use this get a ten in my book. It would have been hard coming from a windows based laptop, but I had an excellent salesperson who walked me through all of the basic gestures that are unique to MAC products. I absolutely love it and will never own another windows based computer again!!!
5|I bought this computer to do school work. It is easy to use and has a pretty good battery life. I was apprehensive about spending the money to buy a mac, but I am happy I did.
5|By far the best laptop I've ever had. Love the applications and the fact that I can FaceTime and send texts is pretty cool.
5|Our whole family has mac book pros. We love them. Easy to use. plenty of support.
5|I always use Mac products and am very happy with this smaller mac pro
5|I'm happy,but have a lot of questions.apple is great.
5|I am very happy with the Apple MacBook Pro! We own 3!
5|I have been very impressed with the MacBook Pro. User-friendly and easy to navigate. Slightly heavier than I expected but I wanted to have a DVD drive.
1|Can't figure this computer out. I don't find it easy to use and do not like it. If you would take it back, I would be very pleased. Otherwise I am going to to try and sell it
5|I decided to buy this MacBook Pro, my first Apple laptop after making a purchase of a Windows 8.1 Toshiba laptop which suddenly had a major motherboard failure after less than two months of use. By the way, the Toshiba was my very first laptop purchase due to business issued laptops that served my portable requirements for over 16 years. I am in IT, and simply there is no comparison to the reliability of the Mac operating system and the consistent quick reboot for this machine to any window PC currently in over the life of the machine. The style use of the machine is exceptional. It also helps that these days there and no issues in working in the Microsoft software environments. My old fears have been extinguished. I am convinced that this machine will be reliable well into five years down the road when the life of PCs have have a lifespan of three years of effectiveness in my experience. I am very satisfied with my choice.
5|This MacBook is very easy to use! I would recommend it to anyone wanting to switch from a PC.
5|This computer is the ish! I love it. Best decision that I ever made when it comes to a computer.
5|Very portable, light weight and easy to setup. Customer service is always wonderful.
5|Its not as fast as my old one, but its still a great machine!
5|My first MacBook after I learned to use it I love it.
5|highly recommended, as always mac deliver a good machine
4|Since I switched to Apple I never looked back. They are easy to use, cute, and functional. Not quite as good as an Apple desktop but does the job nicely.
5|I like a lot this computer and Apple technology overall!
5|I've always had either a Dell desktop or Dell laptop but very tired of dealing with viruses. Now that I've made the switch I won't go back. This computer does everything and very satisfied. Not difficult to use either.
5|Very easy to set up and start using. I've been a Windows user my whole life, the transition to iOS has been easy. Rest of the family is up and running on it as well.
5|So far no complaints. There's no manual or list of commands and shortcuts. You have to Google.
5|So far I'm very happy with my laptop, it was a great price and is working fine.
5|FIRST CLASS WOULD HIGHLY RECCOMEND . BEAUTIFUL PICTURE
5|I travel quite often both by air and car and this computer is perfect. Great quality and easy to use. I also have an Apple I-pad mini and an Apple Desk Top.
4|I believe the computer will be a great investment for me, something I can have for a long time. I am struggling to learn the computer/operating system. I am new to a Mac.
5|Great for use either in business or home easy to use
5|This MacBook Pro has been a joy to use. The backlit keys are amazing. I can now use my laptop in the dark if I so choose and not disturb others. The sound quality is great. I don't do a lot of gaming, but the gaming I do works well without hangups. I do a lot of browsing and often have many windows open at a time without problems. I also do a lot of documents. I've had no difficulty moving between my Apple at home and my HP at work.
5|Excellent computer, perfect size (13 in), beautiful design and feel, awesome operating system. What else can you ask? I was a windows user my whole life and not looking back. I like the fact that this computer can be upgraded as well to SSD, maybe something i would like to do in the future for even faster performance. I highly recommend this computer.
5|Weight is manageable, and cord and extension is a good length.
5|Great laptop for the price, small light weight. Great for the family.
5|The best products come from apple. If you want power and a good product that does everything it promises without breaking and that lasts for years, get apple.
5|It is a bit expensive, but well worth the cost. Awesome computer for graduate and doctorate level students on the go.
4|A great investment especially with me starting my music career.
5|I have had several different lap tops but this Mac Book is so much better then anything I have ever had, it's alittle more expensive but well worth it.
5|Although its out of the box, its in pristine condition. No outside defects and operates seamlessly. Love my macbook and love it even more because I got such a great deal :)
4|After years using Windows it is my first experience with a MacBook and I'm still learning how to use it. While it's a very good computer, I now wish I'd purchased one with Retina display and flash memory instead of a hard drive.
5|I was debating on whether to get a Windows laptop or a Mac for work and ended up going with a Mac. I had seen so many mixed reviews on the different laptops I had been interested in, but I figured you can't go wrong with a Mac. No disappointments here!
4|Replaced an '08 MacBook and could not be more pleased with my purchase. Haven't encountered any problems.
5|It's so amazing it's fast and does everything I need it too !!! I'm so impressed with this laptop
5|It's really good excellent. It's the best portable pro computer from Apple.
4|It's a great computer an was at a great price. I would recommend this item to a friend. My experience in the store was great as well.
5|I will never go back to a normal PC! This Mac runs all my programs with ease. Cannot believe I have gone this long without one. Highly Recommended.
5|Excellent product, works great, user friendly and easy to use.
5|The MacBook Pro has gone beyond my expectations. I use it for music production and video editing on a daily basis. It comes with everything needed to get started and is definitely a great value. If anyone is serious about music or video production, it's a must have.
5|This computer never gives me trouble. I love my Mac
5|Easy to use and a great buy. I would recommend a MacBook or anything from Apple.
5|Laptop was purchased as a gift for a friend who really loved the functionality and innovative.
5|I just love apple... This is a great Mac.... Love it!!!!!!
5|This Apple laptop is a great marvel. Works right all the time, every time.
5|My son and daughter in law are very happy with the MacBook Pro. Just what they needed for college and life!!
5|I bought a Apple pro for my wife, she like it very much. It is a great machine.
5|Good people to deal with there. Even thought it was very busy they went out of their way to help us.
4|This is my first Mac computer, after owning PCs previously. I find it user friendly, and it is great to have it synced with my iPhone and iPad. Great addition if you like Apple products.
5|I just love my new laptop. It's just so much better than my iPad, now the only thing I need to learn to do is navigate and see all that it's capable of.
5|As always this Mac laptop is perfect in every way.
5|I purchased this computer for my wife as a Christmas present on sale over Black Friday weekend. I have the same model that I purchased a little over a year ago. If you don't need the latest model, this computer is an excellent choice. I've had zero issues and will never go back to a Windows PC.
5|Easy to use... Never have problems. Friends are envious
5|I have owned many Apple products before and have always enjoyed them. This was an item I was wanting for some time and finally had the money to get one. And this model did not disappoint me. Everything works flawlessly and looks beautiful while doing so. Only recommendation I would make is get a model with higher RAM. It does freeze a little from time to time, but that is probably because I overload it too. I know I need to upgrade my RAM. Otherwise a wonderful machine.
5|Mac pro has worked great for me so far. Purchased my first macbook pro in 2006 and still works till this day. Had to purchase new one because i was not able to continue updating software. Never had to take it in for any repairs or virus of any sort. Would recommend it to everone!
5|Great for school work and personal stuff!!!!!!!!!!
5|always wanted a mac laptop and I'm not disappointed at all very pleased with my purchase
4|I use it for my music storage and for my college homework i love it
4|Even though its not the latest model, it still an apple product and is good. Its a bit bulky compared to the new air, but cant beat the price i paid for it....
5|Had this computer years later it died. Bought the surface pro 3, tried it out for a month and hated. Went back to mac book pro, so much better
5|for a person like me who was using windows computers, the Program takes a while to get use to, but once i find it fascinating. it would be great if Microsoft office is sold with it, i mean uploaded there like any other computer. other than that i just wish a long life for it, for my sake of course.
4|Great price computer. Works great. Like the links with I phone
5|great laptop with no problems. apple is always good
5|I was first introduced to Mac products when I started my current job and have slowly been upgrading my own devises. I love Macs and won't be going back anytime soon. This Macbook is just as great as my HUGE Mac I use at work. Highly recommend. Yes the cost is higher than a PC but they last so much longer!!
5|We have recently made the transition to the Mac world and I guess I am almost ashamed to say that I don't know what took us so long! This MacBook is as awesome as the MacBook Air that we purchased earlier this summer. Now having several Apple devices, our phones, iPads and AppleTV all communicate flawlessly. The ease of usability is the biggest perk to our transition. Yes they cost more, but YES they are worth it.
5|Well I've always wanted a macbook since I first heard of them but could never afford it. So when it became on sale for 899...I thought to myself, why not? I deserve it?! And I did...and I can't seem to put it down. The only thing I dislike about this notebook is Google play...I subscribe and I thought I could listen to my songs on there...but I haven't figured it out yet. Anyways awesome notebook
5|Excellent product! Very knowledgeable sales associate, very friendly !
5|I bought this mac for my sophomore year of college. I love it. I use it every class for note taking and writing papers
5|This is an excellent notebook, fast, easy to run and great price
5|Very pleased with the Macbook Pro. Everything that a college student could possibly need.
5|So 1st, it's a Mac. Need more to be said? Well just in case.. Its been performing perfectly. Strong battery. Screen size is great. Now Im not video editing or doing monstrous Photoshop editing but its still fantastic
5|Although it's rather expensive compared to what's out there, it was definitely worth the investment.
4|Good sturdy looking with quick loading. The two issues I had with it were that it didn't support Kaspersky Antivirus for mac and that it was pricey for the features it offered. That being said, my wife still loves it, so I am happy with the purchase.
5|I always used internet and using this laptop is very good because it open very fast. I always used it
4|Still learning how to use it. It is a little difficult when you make to switch from Indows to Mac.
5|I switched from all manufactures and finally purchased the MacBro these computers are worth the money.
4|This is our go to computer for our staff. We have software developers, analysts, and testers. They all use this model of the MacBook Pro. It isn't the fanciest of Macs but it is a solid machine that I've been using everyday for the past 3.5 years. More important it is one of the last models that can be upgraded (memory and hard drive). I've add 4GB of memory to mine and swapped out my hard drive for a SSD. Love it.
5|Bought this to replace my late 2008 Macbook as I'm starting grad school. I've already ordered memory upgrades to increase it to 8GB as 3.95GB of the available stock 4 is constantly used. Definitely a great deal and awesome computer. Macs are built to last and are worth the money!!
5|Take it out of the box and you're ready to go. Connects easily and seamlessly with existing devices.
5|Easy to use, no glitches, stays charged, love it!!
5|Recently changed from Windows to OS. So far the learning curve has been fairly smooth. The keyboard functions are a little different than windows, but overall I like my new Macbook Pro. Very stable with a good battery life. The only negatives are the very small font size that can only be adjusted using the preference settings for each individual app and no insert/type over function for the keyboard.
5|I love the Mac! I've always been a windows person. I started to get into photography and my old laptop just wasn't cutting it. I decided to switch to a Mac and it saves me so much time!
5|This is similar to all apple products in that it works great. I would recommend.
5|my first MAC, have been very pleased so far, the commands are a bit different, but love the speed, image quality
5|Excellent to use for school work. I had another laptop but this one really is the best I have ever used. Simple and exceller
5|My only complaint is that the volume does not go up that high, but other than that I love it!
5|MY MACBOOK PRO IS WONDERFUL. I HAVE ALWAYS WANTED A MAC, SO GLAD I FINALLY BOUGHT ONE.
5|very excellent, ease in carrying with smaller case yet more gigibites for use in my studies.
5|Good product , but take some time to get use to if you are Microsoft user. Recommended!
5|MacBook Pro laptop is great laptop for so many reasons: great battery life, excellent screen resolution, backlit keyboard, DVD player still built into this one - which I like as the new ones are thinner and don't have DVD players. In summary, get this model if you like an efficient, well built and solid laptop. Some of the new ones may be thinner, but you lose some features in newer ones.
5|Bought this MacBook Pro for my kid, and he loves it.
5|This is not my first MacBook Pro, but I purchased this one for dedicated use with photography and graphics. So far, I am pleased with its ability to serve this purpose.
4|Good base model laptop. Good UI, spacious hard drive. 4 gb RAM is on the low end; it's used up very quickly.
5|Great computer always count on a Mac to do the job
4|The processor runs a little slow since it's only a 4gb processor, but it's way better than any PC
5|I'm sure it will be a hit! We will find out Christmas Day!
5|I've never owned a mac, but I decided to take the plunge. Since I own an iPad I found that the startup and the overall setup of OS X was intuitive. If you're a PC owner with an iPad it's important to note that there are some clear differences between iOS(operating system for mobile devices) and OS X(operating system for mac). Within in a few days and lots of use I was much more proficient that I thought I'd be. Since I still often use PCs in other settings, I now consider myself to be "Tri-OS" (PC, iOS, and OS X). If there's any doubt about changing to a mac system join me and TAKE THE PLUNGE.
5|Excellent laptop for a beginner or pro. Great and Easy learning programs along with one of the best support techs
3|Had to call apple care cause no apps would download very helpful
5|I was tired of all the viruses so decided that my next computer was going to be a Mac, so I purchased the MacBook Pro laptop. I love it! It's easy to use and convenient with my wifi. I feel secure going on websites knowing that I am protected and can enjoy the experience.
5|Always raising expectations. That's apple for you.
5|working in a office that uses Mac books I'm able to start and finish my work from my office or home. Everything is right where I need it and the Mac book pro delivers great quality on every category
5|Battery life is amazing. I am so happy that I purchased my macbook and didn't go with another brand. A little different to get used to but totally worth the money!
5|The Apple MacBook pro does everything college age son needs it to do. Fast and reliable
5|My fiance convinced me to switch from a PC to a Mac and I am so glad he did. I love my Macbook Pro. It is easy to use and very reliable.
5|I chose this over the Air and Retina display Macbook because of the price difference (mainly) but also the hard disk storage that I require. For me, it really is just a comparison of Mac vs Mac vs Mac...no Windows PC's allowed!
4|I brought the lap top for my niece for school she loves it.
4|it is first time to use mac pro frankly, i am a girl i prefer my laptop is easy to be carried but finally i chose mar pro as it is really laptop,,compare air which is just for surfing the internet ,,mac pro is more profrofessional for me ....but it is heavier for me still. lol.....so far so good, the storage for a business lady is enough i could use pages, numbers for my biz and really help i like them! the new system i still need to get used to ....eg i dont know how to edit the external hard drive from mac ,,sigh.....anyway i like my mac even it is not new version .
5|Is a students dream computer. This laptop has all the features you would expect at a price you can afford.
5|it is really good product and i like it a lottttttt
5|I would highly recommend this computer to anyone. Easy to use. Bought online with pick up in store and it was an easy transaction with great service
4|Love the size , easy to use, the video feature is great!
5|Debated in spending the extra bucks on a Mac. Needed for music industry. Does all I need and more.
5|You won't find another one like this! It's amazing!
5|I use this Macbook Pro for office, web and print graphics and video. Mac is a must for my entire staff. Virtually no problems. Recommend memory upgrade as soon as you can afford.
5|Great computer easy to use. We love to make home videos. Very happy without investment
4|Replaced a past Mac Book with this model. Very pleased!
5|My first Mac Laptop . I purchased this for college early so I could get used to using it and it was very easy to set up. Love it and would buy anything else.
5|New to macs but it was easy to use. It's light and love that it has a cd/dvd drive. C
4|I think this computer is great, and I was really excited about it. I had an older MacBook (I think from 2009), so I was happy to upgrade. I am, however, surprised by how slow it is sometimes. I thought my older computer was faster, and I am not sure if it is just the Yosemite update, or what the cause is.
5|It has been very nice and easy using this computer. We would recommend this to everyone.
5|i got tired ot the windows crashing and freezing this will never happen on the mac stop wasting you money mac is the best.
5|Awesome sales associate and knowledgeable staff! Appreciate the friendliness given by staff. Very welcoming
3|I exchanged it for a Windows computer, I didn't want to learn all over again how to use the apple system.
5|Excellent computer. Very user friendly and fast. Easy to learn how to use and does everything I need for school.
5|good, reliable product. very easy to learn and use.
5|Love the computer and the price was great! Can never go wrong with a Mac
5|Great computer, very good battery life at the moment, good portability.
5|I got the macbook pro for college. It is great for my degree in programming. I'm able to program o NV it with no issues. All the features are to spec.
5|I love my computer. There is a lot of short cuts and the battery life is awesome!
5|Overall is a great laptop, I have an imac and i love it but since I moved due to university it is a great and practical to have a macbook. The only thing is kind of heavy but thats a thing that I can live with
3|As a long term PC user I made the switch to Mac as friends all said how much easier it is to use. After day 1, I almost threw it away. I am getting there now but I still find that my PC and the PC version of MS Office, particularly Outlook for mail, did many things better. If you make the switch, be prepared for frustration. If there was a book or App that was specifically designed for PC converts, that would be a big help. I do find the tight integration between the Mac and my iPhone and iPad a plus. But am I more productive with Mac after one month - not even close. Thankfully I kept my PC desktop and continue to use it daily as well.
5|Mac Book Pro serves me well. Chose Mac because of previous experience.
4|Good size, perfect for a family. Is not super fast.
4|Great laptop for students and beginners. Easy to use.
5|Needed a good computer for college, this one exceeded my expectations.
5|This is my first Apple computer and so far I love it! It works seamlessly with my iPhone and iPad. My favorite thing about it is that it updates everything when it is sleeping. I never have to wait to use it. I can log on, do what I want in minutes and put it back to sleep. The days of waiting on my PC to update and restart are over!!! I did end up purchasing MS Office for Mac online for $84.99 since I had so many Word, Excel and PowerPoint files. I would have liked to have had the Retina screen and solid state hard drive but I couldn't justify the cost. This is a great machine for $949. Go get one!!!
5|Great service, great product, great accessories! I love my new MacBook Pro!
3|Make sure the programs you already do not require windows because you will have to spend extra money and space to add it in. Not worth it. Select computer wisely. Otherwise a good machine.
5|I love this laptop so far. I work daily on it for school with all my projects. Very good features.
5|mac book pro is perfect gift with your loveone....
4|This computer is a power house! Although I feel it's a bit heavier than many many computers, it's still a good machine to have. It's got plenty ports, and still is the ONLY MacBook left for sale that still has a CD / DVD rom drive! It's not that important "now" with all the digital delivery methods for content, but I guess you can call me old fashioned. It looks and FEELS solid. It doesn't feel cheap - and it's pretty speedy. Although w/ the new Yosemite OS upgrade, it's slowed it down a bit, it's a great machine over all. It's simple to use, and with its drop in price - how could you say no? Battery life compared to my MacBook Air isn't as good - but it's got an excuse. With a beefy processor and extra parts to power (CD Rom Drive) - it's pretty darn good still and outlasts my last notebook pc. If you want a good machine - this one deserves a look.
3|Its a great laptop but teaching her to use it was a pain.
5|Excellent operating system. Beautiful computer. I love it!
5|Macbooks are expensive but you get what you pay for
5|Very nice laptop, I went with Apple to be compatible with both my iPhone and Apple TV. It was a great purchase
5|It's a good computer. Very good computer. Very good
5|Lightning fast, easy to use, and a great product in every way.
5|I had great service in finding the right computer for me
5|I made the switch from Windows to MAC, I love the new Mac Book Pro, I use it mainly for editing photos and web browsing. No more viruses!
5|Easy to use and i think for Mac its cheap price as well
5|Excellent, easy to use. Bright screen, best decision I've made.
5|We made this purchase to replace our old Mac. It was for the use of our 10yrs old, so she could get homework done. This laptop get it done! Our home is an Apple customer!!
5|I would recommend this product to anyone that can afford it. You will be glad you bought it.
5|Had to replace a 7-year old MacBook, as it was no longer compatible with my online classes. I continue to be very pleased with the MacBook Pro.
5|I fell in love with Apple products about 6 years ago and now would never buy anything else. My MacBook Pro is awesome. Will never go back to a PC again.
5|This computer does everything. I would definitely recommend!
5|Made the Jump from PC... still going through learning curve but think I am going to be happy I did...
3|I am really disappointed how weak this computer is. Very slow even when just using one or two programs.
5|Interesting transition from PC so I split the MAC PRO Drive and installed Windows 8.1. Now I have the best of both worlds on one machine.
4|Anyone, a PC user or convert to the faith, can use this MacBook. It runs smoothly, but is memory hungry. The 4GB is not enough for a lot of stuff, as I run a memory monitor and am constantly below 1GB free. I would upgrade it to 8GB quickly.
5|Good machine. Runs music programs well. Doesn't get viruses like PCs.
5|I am so happy with my purchase. It was fast and easy!
5|Brought this laptop as a birthday gift for my 16th yr old for her birthday. In a battle for a great birthday gift/need for school item. As a graphic design student she did need a better computer. I figured at least it will be an investment in her education as well. She loves her Mac and could not be happier. Great size for students, anything larger is just to big to carry around.
5|needed new computer and members of my family encouraged me to get a Mac and not a PC for various reasons and although I have had it for such a short time ; I am extremely pleased with every aspect of what I have learned.
5|It is a Great laptop. Different but very nice.Very fast.
3|It is a good product if you want to backup your files.
5|I really like apple products . this is my second apple lap top and is great for school and work. it is awesome for videos , watch movies and it keep me up to date with social media.
5|mac book are worth the money! college students use these and now I know why!
5|Bought this for my son graduation/ bday gift, for collage. He loves it.
5|This was a birthday present for my 7th grade daughter. She is very happy with it. She is able to complete school work on it since it is compatible with the iPads and computers they use in our school district; and, unlike some of the newer models of Macs, this model still has a built in CD/DVD player and burner which was a high priority for her. It works great, the graphics look great, and it was less expensive than the newer models for which you have to buy an external CD/DVD player if you want one. The only disadvantage that I think it has, is that it's heavier than a Mac Air.
5|I bought it for my second son when he got into collage because it works fine with my other son. Good and re able laptop.
5|Great laptop, highly recommend!!! Soo happy I finally switched to a Mac from a PC. Very happy with my purchase!
5|New to Apple products but Apple was great in helping me and gave me some fast tips. Still a lot to learn but not as difficult or scary as I thought it would be.
5|Purchased this for my son to use for school. I am a big fan of all Mac/Apple products!
5|The product is great so far, I really like it and it works great.
4|The best product i really love this laaap toooooop
5|I have been wanting a MacBook for several years and I finally caved in and got one. It's amazing! It is zero hassle and super easy to use. I have used PCs my whole life so there was a short adjustment period but Macs just make sense. Now I got the one with 4gb of RAM and I upgraded it myself to 8gb and now it is super fast. It was fine before but I knew I could get a little more speed out of the RAM upgrade. I suggest you do the same but just buy it with 8 to start.
5|This my first time use a MacBook Pro ,, it's awesome... never turning back to my windows pc! it's great for homework, college, entertainment..
5|I am in school and able to use this computer for my classes with no problems or issues.
5|Good battery life, fast internet, lightweight, good display
4|I am first time user of Mac....it initially took some time for me to learn how to use it, as iOS is completely different..... But once I got know I am loving it....
5|I bought this Apple computer to replace and update the one I got almost 5 years ago when I was getting ready to go off to college. I find this computer to be sturdy and durable, which is important when I'm toting it around in my backpack to classes and the library. I also use it a lot in my music career, and find it much more compatible and easy to use than my family's PCs.
5|Everything we wanted in a laptop. This was an excellent investment. It exceeded all expectations.
5|This is my 1st laptop and I decided to go with the Macbook Pro 13". I absolutely love it, just as everyone said I would! I work from home and this is the perfect solution to allow me to work from anywhere in my house as well as take my work with me when traveling. Although it's a little heavier than the Mac Air, it is very manageable and I like the extra storage I was able to add during purchase. I would definitely recommend the product for anyone looking for a laptop that has it all :)
5|FEED BACK FROM MY SON IN SCHOOL IS THAT THE COMPUTER WORKS VERY WELL. HE IS SO EXCITED AND PROMISED TO DO WELL IN SCHOOL.
5|Great laptop everything you would expect from an Apple product.
5|Love everything about this computer. Graphics are great!
5|Works perfectly I love it.... The operating system is spectacular must buy go and buy it now
5|My long awaited laptop, I have been thinking to buy since 2010.
5|I love my macbook, I love the fact that I haven't had any issues with this laptop for years &amp;amp; I have never ever had any virus protection except to actually check the laptop. If you are starting to transition to apple products, get the laptop first &amp;amp; you'll fall in love.
5|No problem at all.this my second time first my kids and me.
5|I was always anti MacBook because I never understood how it worked and it is so expensive. However, it's a great laptop and easy to learn. All my apple products sync to my mac and it's awesome.
4|excellent memory; good value; graphics are great for most uses
5|this is the first time i buy the mac. i like the design and the powerfull processor of this computer.
5|I was looking into getting this laptop for a while, and it has been everything I was hoping it was!
5|I switched from a pc to a mac for the first time with this purchase. Best decision ever.
5|We love this laptop as much as our first one we had for 4-5 years!
5|I'm enjoying my Mac book pro. I'm glad I decided to make this investment.
4|It not money worth as it got bad in a years time, I took to Apple store and they asked for 750$ to fix it, it is better to buy new one if one has to pay 750.i would have not bought it again, but my son insisted on the same .
4|I used previous Mac Pro laptops.But this is extremely high performing laptop. Its taking less booting speed and xcode runs too good. A bit heavy than I expected.
5|I recommend this laptop for everyone. Easy to set up &amp;amp; use. It's light weight &amp;amp; goes everywhere @ any time.
5|I love this computer, I have a 15" of my own and we got my wife a 13. Love Love Love this Mac Book Pro. Yes there are less expensive laptops out there but none that are the quality of a Mac.
5|Love this MacBook Pro, last one with cd drive. Upgradable!!!
5|This is a great size Mac Book for my son at school. The weight makes it easy for him to take across campus to his classes without s bulky back pack. It was an open box item and was no different than the other items we looked at.
5|Excellent. Must have product. Definitely would recommend.
4|I purchased my mac book pro about a month ago. Unfortunately, it started to slow down when i downloaded Microsoft Word. After clearing it off everything is back to normal.
5|This was a great purchase. i am very happy with my product
5|Awesome laptop, it is just what I needed. I justice the switch to Mac and has been a good transition.
5|I absolutely love my new MacBook Pro. I upgraded from a 2008 MacBook that was extremely slow. This makes doing my job much easier.
5|I am still learning to use the computer but I have had a Dell and an HP and the apple computer I find is the best. I plan on getting another one soon and am thinking of getting an ipad for travel
5|This computer really meets all my specifications! It is great for working on college classes as well as keeping up with social media. The resolutoin is outstanding as well! Super purchase!
5|The MacBook Pro, bought for my daughter in Highschool, is a great all around laptop. This computer will get her through Highschool and probably the majority if not all of college. It does a little bit of everything and has lots of memory to store pics and documents for years and years!
4|This is my 3rd Apple laptop. My Macbook Air worked for 3 years and then the mother board suddenly went out. After careful consideration I purchased the MacBook Pro. It lasted 3 weeks and crashed. All hard-drive issues. I gave it a 4 star because I'm skeptical. When it's up and running it's a great laptop!
5|My daughter who is a college senior recently ruined her previous MacBook Pro when spilling coffee on it. She wanted to purchase the same one as she really enjoyed the first one. It serves her well for both classes and personal business. I would highly recommend the Pro.
5|My household is all mac and that's all I've ever wanted and I finally got my own and I love it even more. So worth it!
5|Computer is great. Smooth, simple and easy to use and run. I like the keyboard and also good battery use.
3|The money goes towards the apple in the back of the screen. Glitches and freezes occasionally. Good thing is it doesn't get slow... well not yet at least.
4|I am very pleased with my purchase, and bought it at a great price too!
5|I have always wondered how mac's worked compared to pc's. I am pleasantly surprised and happy with my purchase.
5|I had a HP and the Mac is so much better,then the HP.
5|I love my MacBook Pro. It is the perfect computer for a college student! It does everything I need it to do such as; write essays and much more.
5|I liked mac all my life and grew up with using it #1
5|The macbook is all they claim it to be! Awesome!!!
5|I bought this laptop for my daughter who started college. She loves it and is using it daily.
5|Perfect I am in love with this product! Go buy it!!!!!
4|My first Mac, and I love it. It's not as fast as I expected but great laptop
4|Being a Windows user, it was hard adjusting to it at the beggining but now its actually pretty awesome. The interface is friendly and more interactive. Overall, great product.
5|Fast slick and awesomeperfect for the DJing system that we have doesn't slow down runs I quit adequately just love it its amazing would recommend it to anybody
5|yes, this is an expensive computer but it's perfect. I preferred this laptop instead of the Retina Display Macbook because I use the optical drive. So even though this is technically and older version it doesn't feel outdated.
5|This is my second purchase of same item, We bought one for my husband and this one for my 21 yr old son.
4|There is a great difference bet. apple and other brands. Hard to make the transition from a PC to a Mac. Had to call in multiple times to resolve issues. Cannot say much since I only own it for a little over a month. The best ratings would be after a few years of use.
5|I am glad I spent the extra money to switch to a Mac. easy to use, high quality, great graphics, free programs that Microsoft charges for, and Applecare is awesome!
5|i love my new apple computer its fast, I never have problems with it.
5|This is the second Apple Macbook Pro in our family. This product is easy to use, processes quickly, and has many great applications. Fun AND functional!
5|New to Mac computers, but love it. I am getting used to the different operating systems.
5|This product is responsive,quiet and has a long battery life. Very satisfied. Not bothered by constant popups.
5|Very reliable and good product by apple. This is my 2nd one I purchased
5|Very happy with build quality It's everything I expected
5|I had never used a MAC previously. I have always had a window based computer. I really love the Mac
5|I absolutely LOVE my new MacBook Pro--much easier to use than I had expected!
5|Love it! Great Computer!! Easy to learn how to use!
4|a little noise come out from Hard Drive, I used to use SSD hard drive, so i went back to store and changed one. if you don't mind it, it is a pretty cheap one for macbook
4|Awesome Laptop.does everything I need it to do. Super simple to configure. Love it!
5|Great computer lots of extras. I would recommend this computer to friend and family.
5|Great computer easy to use would recommend anyone to get it.
5|I was looking for a Mac, and got this one at a great price! This was a personal purchase, but I wanted the ability to do some light work I installed Microsoft office, and Adobe creative cloud (photoshop,after effects,premiere) and it does a good job of keeping up editing HD video
5|It has been simple to learn and connect to my other Apple devices.
5|this macbook couldnt be any better. I've tried to use other laptops brand but I was never content with them.
3|Laptop was a 2012 model. That's about to be three yes old
5|Apple laptops are second to none. Very fast and overall functional.
5|I am a pc fan and since early days using pcs. My daughter motivated me and bought this mac for me. First few days it took me a little to learn it. But now I love it, its fast, its quite and boots up much better. Safari is also fluid and charming. Thanks to my daughter.
5|We use it in are business and we need to get some more it is fast and you can do just about anything you want.
5|This laptop is absolutely amazing! It does everything I need it too, and the battery lasts a very long time. It's perfect for doing school work, and for watching Netflix as well.
5|It's awesome super fast and an upgrade. It's super
5|I have wanted a Mac for years and it is everything i thought it would be.
5|The versatility of this machine is outstanding. I got this for my wife and she couldn't be happier. I'm just waiting to see what the OS update will be like.
5|The college program I am enrolling in requires this laptop, however I still planned on buying one before I enrolled. This laptop is great for anyone. Can't wait to upgrade the ram and put a ssd in it!
5|I love Macs for their simplicity and productivity. Security is no issue with macs, they are extremely reliable. Definitely worth every penny I paid!
5|I have recently just updated from an HP to a Mac, and I'm very happy with the switch. I am a VCT major, and the bulk of my work is done on Macs in the classroom, so I decided that this would be easier. I love this computer and all the things it can do.
5|Mac does it again! The specs are perfect, lots of storage and quick as a whip.
5|my bother in law and in laws recommended this computer and it is amazing. I own and iPhone 5s and an ipad and I love the integration between the devices.
4|Fast but somehow got hacked. It is sleek and also all of the device's that goes with it.
4|My daughter wanted this computer due to DVD/CD capabilities. She loves the computer and it works great for her school works and of course her social media. Great computer and awesome service support.
5|Expensive but worth it. These are not just a pretty face. They really are built tough. We travel all over the world with these. Manhandling them and going through airport scanners etc.. No problems ever...
5|This is my first Mac airbook, was a windows user always...helps me do my art work better
5|I have an old Macbook. I like the new one much more. Awesome picture clarity. I would always recommend this over a PC.
3|Quick on and off. Easy navigating. Screen is brilliant. Charging cable connects great. Scrolling is easy.
5|only thing i would like different about apple MacBooks, would be a pen function!!! come on apple
5|Just what I needed and more! MacBook Pro is better than anything else
5|Amazing MacBook Pro incredibly fast performance awsome battery life exceeds all expectations
5|I have been a PC user for awhile and I finally made the switch over to mac and I am loving it.
5|After owning my MacBook for over a year now I'm officially a Mac convert.and love every minute of using it.
5|I just upgrade from a macbook core 2 duo to this laptop and is a huge change , in design and hardware , excellent choice
5|I upgraded from a PC desktop to this Mac. I don't know what took me so long to change. Glad I did. Well worth the purchase. I upgraded the memory to 16GB ram and it's fast.
4|Apple is always good!! U will not be disappointed!
5|I have one and bought one for my daughter to use in college, loves it!
5|This is my second macbook. I loved my first and I love this one even more. It is a great thing to have and use. The resolution and sleekness of the display are phenomenal.
5|I am very happy with my laptop, I was won over by it's features to play/burn dvds, have a couple of USB's, other drives and memory drives, durability, and the fact that it was much safer than Windows. I've already used it right away to assist me with clients who are able to view and edit their own documents on the spot. However, I will be in line to purchase a parallel to exchange documents with Apple non-users.
5|Everything I was looking for in a laptop computer!
5|I love this computer. There's a learning curve going from a PC to Mac but it's totally worth the frustration
5|The product is just as I expected. Exactly as my daughter requested.
5|I love my new pro it's fairly simple to use. I would reccomended any apple product so far they haven't disappointed me yet. It is well worth the money.
4|I love this computer, the speed of the processor is great!
5|Very nice laptop. Very, very, very, very nice . I would definitely recommend
5|Never a problem. Have used for years and will never go back to pc's
4|It a good deal for most part, maybe a bit over rated though.
5|Great size and features without investing in virus protection.
5|This is my second macbook and it doesn't disappoint. I have been very pleased with Apple products. They are intuitive and easy to use. The quality meets or exceeds expectations every time.
5|As all of Apple products the interphase is super friendly , it's performance is outstanding and definitely will keep working with the Apple guys
5|I love this thing! I love everything about it! The size is perfect the picture is great and the fact that it is compatible with my iPhone makes it an absolute awesome purchase
5|This is the 4th macbook pro in our house. You can't beat the price.
5|I liked the MacBook Pro verses the newer ones with retina display. This had a bigger hard drive and the DVD / CD writer built in.
5|This computer is extremely fast. My only quibble is the dvd drive sounds like it's going to break each time I puta disc in.
5|Have had this for under 12 hours and I Love it!!!! So much better than Windows. I have been able to download what I need with no issues. Once you update to OS X Yosemite and iOS 8.1 on your apple devices, the handoff feature and SMS work great when you are on the same wifi network.
5|fast, reliable, best design ever and great appsssss
5|Another great product from apple! Good price &amp;amp; an excellent product!
5|Great for doing my homework . I can do the research I need to complete my assignments . When I am not doing my homework , I like to play games on my computer .
5|This product is super duper. Light, easy to use and no virus !!!!!
4|This is our 3rd MacBook in the family and we love the speed and security Apple provides.
5|I wish I could give this product 10 stars as Apple always exceeds my expectations
5|I purchased a Macbook Pro for school and love it. Its dependable and fast. The only think that sucks is that the word system isn't in .docs.
5|I love the Apple wireless mouse it works amazing. I would recommend this to anyone who buys Apple products.
5|This is a great buy. I've been going to school with a less than great lab top for about a year and now that I've up graded its made live a lot easier. Its speed and overall function is way better than I expected.Its made school way easier.
5|It's an Apple. It is our 3rd computer. It is a great investment. Once you get one- you never go back. Easy to understand and use.
5|My Samsung 550p didn't even make it two years before a major repair was needed. Plus it had Windows 8 which was the least user friendly program ever especially coming from XP and not having a Smart Phone. I am learning about my Mac but at least it makes sense which Windows 8 did not. I love the resolution on my Mac.
5|great lap top would recommend easy to use and carry
5|It is perfect for school. Fast and reliable .Lightweight and scratches do not show :)
5|These products are nearly perfect and always easy to use.
5|This is one of the best investments I've made! I don't th no I would ever go back to a pc
5|It helps me in all aspects of my technological life.
5|It's made doing schoolwork and downloading documents so much easier.
5|its the best MacBook Pro you can get, it's such a light laptop I use to have the regular MacBook Pro 13 inch it's such a big upgrade
5|This is a great laptop. I recommend it highly to everyone.
5|This is a great computer. If you are familiar with apple products, you will be able to navigate easily.
5|Why would u buy a PC, when u can get a Mac. I've convinced my Mom and my aunt to go MAC
5|Bought this laptop for both my daughters when they entered high school. It is a great computer and has enough technology to grow with them as they move onto college. Great investment.
5|Great product from Apple, gets the job done plus more!!
5|This is my very first MacBook Pro. Ive never had a laptop before just a a HP pc and Im glad i converted to a Macbook user and i love it. I have all my pictures, videos, and music. I love the simplicity of my MacBook Pro. Would be great for any college or community college student for sure. I know this would have come in handy when i was going to community college.
4|My daughter is loving it, soon we will be getting a desk top computer, for my self
5|Got this as a Birthday present and love using it. I use it to review my emails and facebook .
4|I am generally very happy with my product. It has done everything I expected and more. I am still figuring out all of its features but that will come with time and continues to improve. I did have to bring it in to an apple store to get it fixed (the wire between hard drive and rest of computer came loose) which was my only frustration with this product. I was able to get it fixed quickly and it was still under warranty however it was still frustrating as this problem should not have happened ever let alone when my product was only a little over a month old. It was definitely an inconvenience that should not have happened. Other than that I have had no complaints/problems.
5|I have long been a PCperson, after windows 8 came out I switched to Mac. Have not regretted that decision once, this is the 5th Mac I have bought in a year. Switched my whole family and office over to Macs!! If you've ever been on the fence, do it, you won't regret it.
5|i love my mac and i won't go back to pc again.... You can say good by to all virus :)
5|nothing is better then apple i would recomend all people close to me i told my sis too
5|I have purchased 2 Dell laptops previously. Both laptop's batteries had died quickly which made them more desktops for the had to be left plugged in to keep on.
5|This computer has helped me complete many school assignments as well as personal things. It's definitely better than my PC!
5|First time buying an apple desktop and it is great
5|I really love it! Nothing compares to my Macbook. I switched from the Surface Pro 2 and it works so much better for my necessaties.
5|Great product. First time mac user and really simple to use. Start up is just as easy, does take a little time to load but its ok.
4|Easy to use laptop for beginners and great for school, only laptop I'd recommend
5|I'm new to Mac, and admittedly there is a learning curve, but when you do, you will not go back to Windows. Biggest learning is Word for Mac, having always been a WordPerfect user.
5|I've used a PC all my life and although it's taking a little time to learn the different shortcuts and commands, I'm very satisfied with my first Mac computer. This kids use them at school as well so the laptop is used by all members of the family.
5|I have owned 3 mac book pros and I would not own any other computer!! For all the money I have wasted on cheap laptops i could have bought 2 Mbps. A little expensive but well worth the money spent!!!
5|Got sick of buying I new labtol every 3 years. Heard great things about how Macbooks last longer. So far gotta say. Very impressed and as for it not being a touch screen. The mouse pad more than makes up for that once you get used to it.
4|love my MacBook. just switched from being a windows user and love it!
5|I had a IMac before buying the MacBook Pro. I prefer Apple's operating system.
4|I love It, runs perfectly. the MacBook Pro features Intel's new third-generation Core architecture for a boost in processor and memory speeds.
5|It's amazing, fast, light, and awesome. Love it!!!
5|Super Fast, user friendly, great storage capicty for my needs.
5|This is our first Apple laptop and very happy with it.
5|I bought this laptop after using a PC for work. Mac's are easy to use much more dependable that PC's. If you are switching over, go ahead and get office for mac vs. using Apple's versions. There might be a short learning curve however once you get through that, you won't want to go back.
5|I got this MacBook as a gift. Very reliable and good quality. Good battery life. My only suggestion is to upgrade RAM to 8gb and switch from hdd to ssd. These should increase the overall performance and productivity of this laptop.
5|My new MAC Book PRO is easy on the eyes and easy to transition to as a former PC owner for many years. Many functions are intuitve and there is plenty of on line support for those questions that are a bit more complex. Everything about this laptop speaks to quality and I expect to be using it for many years to come
5|I own many apple product but this is my first laptop computer from them. They might be a bit pricy but it is definetly worth the price. The computer boots up fast and I never have any trouble with viruses when I use the internet. The firewall and safety features are the best feature to me!
5|Fast, smooth running computer all around. I bought this computer specifically to run both OSX Mavericks and Windows 7 side-by-side (via Boot Camp installation), as I need programs that are exclusive to one operating system or the other. The setup went perfectly, everything works as expected, and there has been no significant drop in performance speed. This is definitely the computer to buy if you are looking for a quality Mac, but don't want to spend $1500+ for all the top-level stuff.
5|Great applications. Works fast and efficient. Best laptop ever!
5|Have no problem with MacBooks. Have 5, one for each member of the family.
5|This Macbook has done everything I have needed it to do. It is another reliable Apple product.
5|This is my second MacBook and I wouldn't consider anything else! The size and weight make it perfect to carry to classes, and the reliability is better than my friends' laptops! I watch movies and tv shows on it seamlessly. I am a true Apple fan and highly recommend to all my friends when they need a new laptop!
5|Love this computer. I was concerned switching over from a PC to a Mac. I just wish I would have don't it sooner
5|I love my new MacBook.Love Apple products and this is a reason why
5|I would say their store pick up was great, I got it within several hours, it's fast. and certainly, this mac works well
4|Not happy with the technical support with issues that have come up
5|I had a great time the workers were really nice best Frist timer
5|I am very happy customer with my purchase.Excited that I decided to go with Apple never fails.
5|does everything i expected. used Mac for 8 years now. this is my 2nd purchase. very happy with this one as i have been with my older one. never locks up......no restarts. just does what i ask it to. perfect
5|Love our MacBook. It is so refreshing to my have to deal with broken pcs
5|My daughter absolutely loves the speed on the MacBook and knowing that her laptop will be practically "virus free" is a great plus!
5|Excellent build quality and no lag when it comes to opening multiple programs. Can get a bit warm but that's understandable considering its all aluminum.
5|Switched from pc to Mac and i am loving the change. Great computer
5|I love this MacBook Pro. It is very easy to get used to and I switched from an HP laptop. Best decision I've ever made was to buy this particular laptop. I won't ever be buying a PC again
5|My daughter has wanted a MacBook for a long time and allowed herself to be extra frustrated every time there was a hiccup with her Windows laptop. So far, there have been no complaints about the MacBook. Has it been that flawless, or...? ;-)
5|I have purchased many laptops in the past but my Apple Mac Pro is the best, thus far! It is easy to use and navigate through it.
4|This computer is everything that I wanted and does everything I need for it to.
4|Doesn't get hot quickly like the air. Really nice size screen
5|It's fast, easy to use, small size to carry around!
5|This is my second macbook. I was tempted by retina display. But internal dvd drive is more important because I watch DVDs and I can upgrade to SSD which costs less. So non retina is perfect for me.
5|Apple by far makes the best products. This apple laptop is very fast and user friendly and has a CD-ROM drive.
4|Great product it did every thing i need it to do very good battery life power up quickly. the only reason i return it was because i want the retina display
5|As always Apple products are reliable dependable and top of the line! We purchased an Open Box item and have no regrets!
5|This is my first Mac and I am getting used to it. I think there should be more of an introduction/tutorial without having to go to the stores since I work so much and have no time for that
5|Macs are the best. Thank you for selling them and making it easy to buy.
5|Good for both studies and for staying in touch. It has a great webcam for Skype and good battery life.
5|This is a great lap top when paired with an iPhone 5s
5|GREAT for college ,enjoying it to the very end.....i would recommend to anyone that loves their computer
5|Ive wanted a MacBook forever and finally broke down! Worth every cent!!
5|This is the ideal computer for any college level or younger student.
5|I love Apple products; although, i wish they were cheaper. i purchased this product because Apple laptops last a vary long time and this was a great price for 500GB. i love how small and sophisticated it is. It can fit in any case or bag.
5|Great computer and friendly service members. Very helpful.
5|My daughter loves this laptop! She is a senior in h.s. + does a lot of her work on here. She looks forward to using it in college! She said it is efficient, easy to handle, + helps so much with her work. Especially with all the pre college applications + resumes she needs to fill out! It is fast also!
4|My 15" MacBook Pro died after 2 years &amp;amp; 8 months due to "Intermittent GPU Failure." I was so upset I REFUSED to buy another one for $1900!!! :-( No MacBook Pro should die after such a short time and it appears to be a common occurrence with late 2011 MB Pro!) I liked buying top of the line and always got at least 8 years from them, however I couldn't do it this time after this "Intermittent GPU Failure." THANK GOODNESS EVERY WEEK, I BACKED UP TO AN EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE USING SUPERDUPER AND WAS ABLE TO USE MIGRATION ASSISTANT TO GET THINGS BACK ASAP! I paid $1000 and figured I have $900 ready to replace this one when it goes! I miss the speed of the i7 chip and the 16 GB of memory it had. As for the computer itself, IT IS A MAC and appreciate the ease of use. I like the 13" feel for portability as the 15" &amp;amp; 17" feel so awkward in comparison. I'm able to tolerate the i5 chip speed being slower but will HAVE TO upgrade memory to 8 GB. 4 GB just seems not to be enough for my need to run 2 browsers at the same time. Hope you found this to be some help! :-)
5|This apple computer is the best purchase I have made in a while!! its perfect for school.
5|Have had other windows computers and this Mac pro is ten times better.
5|If you want a computer you can have for years with no problems, I would recommend this to everyone.
5|I enjoyed this Mac so much I bought another one. Best bang for your buck. Older model but can still outlast the new models.
5|The computer is everything a kid needs for school and then some. Easy to use and more importantly no viruses.
5|I purchased a macbook when I started college in 2007, my computer lasted me until 2014. It was such a great computer I knew I'd buy another one when it was done for and I did. Enjoying having all the updates of a newer macbook. Very satisfied!
5|BEST COMPUTER EVER. Great performance, extremely Fast .
5|My daughter's 1st laptop was a MacBook Pro, so when my twin boys wanted to have a laptop of their own, the first thing went into my mind was to get them the same as my daughters'. The good thing about the MacBook was, you don't have to buy AntiVirus every year (saving some money), and it is very user-friendly.
5|I just purchased this and although I am still learning how to use it there is so much it can do! Once you get the hang of things it is incredibly simple to work with
4|great computer lot bette the window P o s !!!!!!!!!!
4|I haven't had an Apple Mac for a while, and this one is very good and fast. It's user friendly and my son is loving it and wants one too.
5|My last one lasted for 7 years. Loved it so much I had to replace with another and it's even better!
5|best laptop ever, never any problems, fast, reliable,
5|Really enjoy my Mac! Switched from a PC and it was nowhere near as complicated as I heard!
5|Very easy to use, Great for doing on line projects!
5|The MacBook Pro has been easy to use. I love the graphics. Very vibrant.
5|love everything about my laptop its a great computer and very powerful
5|Very helpful staff. Knowledgeable in all aspects of my purchase
4|So far love it...it was expensive but no issues and let's me get my work done without any pop ups; that I hate
5|This MacBook pro works perfectly and is extremely easy to use. If you want a computer that is powerful and virtually flawless, this is the one.
5|I am very happy! This the first apple I purchase and I don't think I will ever buy an PC again. It takes some time to get used to the application but at least it doesn't crash.
5|My daughter has been using the MacBook Pro since Sept. first year college student. Her computer has been her friend. Relying on it to accomplish the everyday task of a college student. This Macbook Pro has not fail her in her studies.
5|I love how fast it starts up hasn't given me any problems. It is also easy to pick up if you are a new user to apple products.
5|Love, love, love it. Great for work or personal use.
5|My Mac book is a great computer it has a great screen view very detail and also helpfull and reliable for school. This is one of the best computer I have had.
5|I am more than happy with this computer, and would recommend it to anyone.
5|Love this laptop will never own a PC again! Highly recommend!
5|I never understood the hype about Mac computers until I purchase this one. It's more then worth the money. Being a professional DJ and working with music everyday you need something that will be reliable during your performance. This Macbook pro has made my life easier and the battery life is the best on the market.
5|I realized i waited too long to get me a Mac. Best investment I've ever made!
5|It is beautiful and every things work well. I love it.
5|I love my MacBook!! Especially all of the apps!!!!
5|My son just got his first teaching job and wanted a new laptop. The MacBook Pro was his first choice and he is very happy with it.
5|The laptop awesome. The software for Mac is surprising user-friendly. Garage band is an excellent program for beginning music producers.
5|I am very happy with my purchase. I love this computer. It's easy to work and very handy. I would recommend it to everyone.
5|My Daughter love her new present.she enjoy to be playing and exploring.
3|I like it. It has a great setting and everything is nice.
1|Have had problems since day 1. Many pop ups to bad web sites, was told I would never get a virus and I did the 1st day
5|I love everything the Apple MacBook does. It is perfect for college essays or just notes.
5|Very good product. Even tough its an older version, it works like a charm.
3|It's easy to use care in any location, very clear pictures and sound vole is good.
5|It's just a great laptop overall helps me with school a lot.
5|With my .edu email address discount I love it more
5|Amazing overall speed, great picture and great virus pertection
5|Very happy with this product. Was everything I wanted. Mac products are well worth the money!
5|Upgraded from an older MacBook Pro. No complaints. Another win for Apple.
5|I love the Macbook Pro. I have always been a Windows user, but because of the issues with viruses and adware decided to go totally Apple products. There was a brief learning curve but not bad. I think the biggest drawback was trying to convert my windows data. And the software I was used to with windows was somewhat limited with Mac. Other than that I love the speed and the clarity of the screen. I also love the feel of the key pad and the size of the 13 inch is perfect!
5|Got a new MacBook Pro 13" to replace my old one of 5 years. Fantastic improvement!
4|Love how fast my MacBook is and that you shouldn't have to worry about a virus. It was a little hard getting use to at 1st compared to my dell but now I really like it.
5|MY SON NEEEDED IT FOR SCHOOL &amp;amp; WORK, I'M HAPPY WITH IT
4|i love this computer is easy to use very practical
5|Worth the money. Bought this for my son for his senior year.
5|It worth every penny, runs fast, looks good, my first mac product and very happy
5|Didnt know if my son would like it, but he does and is on his laptop all the time.
4|I am amazed by the speed of this machine. It works super fast . It is light weight and I have no issue so far. I will recommend this to everyone. Great buy.
5|We bought this Mac laptop for our son to go off to college. He loves it!
5|The Mac Air book has been great for my ninth grade son.
5|My kids love it !!! It's fast and easy to the touch .
5|This laptop is top notch. It feels very natural in the lap and on a desktop. The keyboard is extremely comfortable and easy to use. The overall fit and finish is really without competition. The software is grand, but not without a learning curve for those coming from PC; there are some tricks needed for MacBook that a casual PC owner may not understand (like zip file management and creating a bootable USB backup).. Overall a good experience! Screen is without Retina Display, but do no let this fool you as it is still bright and crisp. This is not without cons however, but the cons are not bad!!! Second MacBook in 8 years here and the i5 shows no real major leap over the older intel core duo processor. Start up time is slow when compared to some top notch PCs in the same price range (take the Surface Pro 3 i5). This is not to say that boot times are horrible, but the popping in of icons and sluggishness of the desktop to be "ready to use" can be.
5|This laptop is good on the go, is light and easy to carry around
4|Bought it for college bound kid. Excitement on kid's face tells it all that I bought a good laptop. No complaint so for.
5|I've had PC's pretty much my whole life. I finally spent the money on a GOOD laptop. It does everything flawlessly. I will always own a MAC!
5|Computer replacing same model that was made inoperable after a dairy product was spilled on the keyboard (cautionary tale). Expect years of problem free use.
5|If you are new to computers and can't decide whether to buy a PC with Windows or a Mac, I certainly recommend buying a Mac. Being an active Windows user for the last 13 years basically living on my PC, I can tell you that Windows doesn't come close to touching Mac OS when it comes to ease of use. The simplicity of removing applications is wonderful, no tedious uninstall methods that look no different than the installations, just drag the application to the trash bin and you're done. The ease of searching for files is great. You have a search option at the top of the screen that can be accessed at any time to find whatever you are looking for. You don't have to worry about guests installing applications when you're not around while they use your Mac, all installations require a password. I tried blocking installations on Windows many times, and no matter what there was always some sort of work around that allowed various things to be installed without passwords while some others were blocked. I have younger siblings who love to install every application in the world on computers and it's frustrating going through the process of getting rid of everything every time they use the computer. I definitely recommend this computer, It's definitely worth the money, even with the high cost compared to windows.
5|There is a learning curve but once you learn it this computer is great and easy to use.
5|the mac book doesn't even compare to any other lap top.
3|For $1200. It's way too overpriced and too slow due to advertisements and slowing popups
5|apple is the best in all no problems for college use
3|4Gb isn't enough, the battery life is okay, i recommend upgrading to 8gb ram. Storage space is good, overall okay laptop.
5|Worth every penny. Reliable. Everything works. Would by again.
4|Laptop works great. A little slow compared to the newer laptops but still good
5|New to MacBook Pro's and always had a CPU. Highly impressed with the Mac and well worth the money!!
5|The best laptop i had ever owned in my entire life
5|This is the best laptop. Very easy transition from PC.
5|Apple the best over all product for education use.
4|Everything has good and bad about themselves. Good totally outweighs the bad.
5|It runs so much better than any computer I have ever had in the past and I love how fast the internet works!
5|One of the best purchases you'll ever make. Worth the price.
5|This is by far the best computer I've every purchased!
4|Great laptop. I use it mainly for school and netflix.
5|I love Apple and this MacBook is the best. It does everything that I thought it would and more! When I get a new laptop, it will again be a MacBook!!!
5|Needed it for school. Purchased online to pick up in store it was quick and easy and made my life that much simpler.
5|Awesome PC. Need to learn Apple system. Need to have application to learn system that's not on line.
5|This device is used for school. It's capacity and speed are optimal.
5|I am not a computer geek. This is fast and easy to use. Light in weight it goes in my book bag and off to school.
5|Excellent battery life and fast too! Lightweight for college campus walking.
5|I've always loved apple products, I did have a mix up at the store but all was solved.
5|Great product, I like so much great i Mac I love it
5|What a great laptop. This is our second Pro and we love it. The size is perfect and it's so fast!
5|Nice sized Retina display, long battery life, optical superdrive, blue tooth--this laptop does it all and does it very well. I have never owned a Mac before, so I was apprehensive about making the transition. The step-by-step instructions that came with this machine made the transition easy. So far, this machine seems fairly durable--solidly built--though it does still have the spinning hard-drive. The solid-state hard-drive would have been nice, but it is much more expensive and those newer machines don't come with an integral superdrive.
5|Absolutely love my MacBook Pro. It's by far the best computer I've ever owned. It's fast, it was very easy to learn, and it has all the features I need. I highly recommend a Mac to everyone!!
4|My daughter loves the speed and storage capacity. It will hopefully be with her all through her college years.
5|Opted for the Mac Book Pro 13.3 in screen instead of larger 15 in.....not disappointed! Awesome, great quality product!
5|I love my Mac book pro its was nice coming to your store the sell man was very helpful
5|My older brothers each got a Mac when they went to college. Now I know why!
4|Great Mac for a student with $100 off. It's being a blessing for our family.
5|Awesome. Great computer. Bought it for my daughter who is starting college
5|I love my new Mac! It is perfect for school work!!
5|Very good customer service, very friendly and helpful!
5|Awesome laptop for student, definitely recommend it! Super utile, easy to use, and very nice dealing with looks
5|Easy to use. Good for beginners used for a freshman in college
5|I thoght that it was really really good and I think that others should hub it
5|Works great! I couldn't be more happy with my purchase
5|Great laptop. I have purchased 4 for my siblings and myself. I never have any complaints.
5|I love it and wouldn't buy a PC now for anything !!
5|It's a MacBook pro. There is no other machine that will compare. It will last forever. I just replaced my old MacBook (white) from 2006. That one was still working perfectly but no longer accepted updated operating systems.
5|I've used PC for years since I moved to MAC I now know what a computer is really supposed to do.
4|My daughter bought computer for school. She really likes it
5|Has been awesome so far! It is my daughters at school she is having great success with the system. Easy to use. She takes it to class. Easy to sync w her phone and ipad! She loves it! My other daughter wants one to and has it on her Christmas list already!
5|Have been a windows user for 10+ years finally making the switch to Mac, and I'm glad I did. User friendly and easy to navigate. One issue I find annoying is not being able to pair this Mac with my iPhone via Bluetooth.
5|Love the laptop! Apple laptops are very reliable and user friendly
4|The computer is a little heavier than what I expected. When I compared the screen to the newer model, I wish I had spent the extra money. Overall I am pleased.
5|All Apple products are pricey, but this was less than the Apple direct student price
5|My MacBook Pro is always at the ready. It holds a charge far longer than my other laptops. What a pleasure to use without having to plug in !
3|if you have more than three applications open, you get the waiting pinwheel quite often, but that may be from all the info. i transferred from my ildl lap top bogging it down. may restore it to factory setting and hand chose what to put back on it. not very fond of the mouse ether. it keeps thinking that i want to double click when i don't. runs slower then my 7 year old macbook that i am getting rid of
5|Dishwasher, Microwave, Range and Refrigerator are great looking and work fine.
5|Such a great investment. Love this Macbook Pro, so fast, and reliable. Definitely a high quality product! :)
5|This is hell of a machine. Reliable, Classy, Excellent Features, Lovely Performance Yeah Apple products are trust worthy. Never had any complaints yet. It's a major shift for one who are used to window machine, once you use mac will never want to go back. I am toggling between windows &amp;amp; mac (work &amp;amp; home) wish my employer too had all mac. Apple products are expensive but they worth it.
4|Too much time to put in new programs. Windows should be already in it.
5|Reliable, powerful notebook, good storage. For those who want a built-in DVD drive despite added weight.
1|Easy to use, speed is excellent very happy with purchase
5|Switched from a Dell to a MacBook and I love it!!!
5|Bought for my daughter as she has had several PCs that didn't last. Her sister still has her Mac after 5 years and counting. While price is higher than a similar PC, this unit will last much longer and was half the price of the one I bought 5 years ago. Would buy again.
4|Bought this for my son who's a college student - he swears by Apple (already has an iMac at home.) $100 student discount helps and unit performs as expected except a bit slow when he has many things happening (especially browsing.) Overall, not a bad purchase. Kudos to Mickey at the Corona store who was awesome in helping us with all of our questions and a great attitude!
4|I am still getting used to it. Excellent for students
5|I had always used PC's even for my first few years of college but I switched and I love every bit of the Mac world
4|Easy to use and I got it at the great price. I recommend this product.
4|This was a second Apple I bought so I could my mother the other one. It was an Apple MacBook Air , 13 inch screen. Overall, I have been quite happy with my purchase. This Macbook Pro fills my needs quite nicely. It is compact and easy to set up. This is Important because I live in an apartment and don't have a lot of space.
5|There's no way I couldn't love my MacBook! Everything about it is PERFECTO!!
5|Excellent laptop if looking to buy for a college student!
3|Got this Pro got home and used it for a day. Felt it was very heavy and unpractical to carry it around if I needed to so returned the next day and got my self new retina display ...
5|Great Apple computer 13'3" for the college students
5|My daughter went through 3 Microsoft laptops while in high school and college and with each one the battery ended up dying completely. So far the battery on this Mac has been great.
5|I have been working on Macs for years. I bought this laptop to enable me to work from home. Works wonderfully. The only down side is that I had to uninstall a number of programs and redownload as they had already been registered to the previous user. You just would think this would have been taken care of before it had been restocked.
5|EXCELLENT! I WOULD DEF RECOMMEND TO A FRIEND ANY DAY!
5|I am very satisfied with this product. I bought it to take to class for not taking and it serves its purpose smoothly
5|The TV was very easy to set up right out of the box. Attached the base, plug it in, set my internet password and DONE! Apps are easy to get to and use as well. I didn't buy the TV for audio quality, that is what sound bars are for!!
5|My daughter wanted a MacBook Pro last year when she started college. We decided to save the $350 and get an Acer laptop. After multiple problems and a trip back to Acer to replace the hard drive it was sold and the MacBook Pro was purchased. So far it has been well worth the extra cash to not worry whether it is going to boot or run correctly. Most student and EDU discounts are $100.
5|Easy to use, sharp display, fast. No issues setting up.
5|This is a great note book able to perform as any standard desktop, its OS is very innovative when it comes to save energy of the battery.
4|Only have had a short time but would recommend to others as of now.
5|My first Apple computer. It was very easy to get the hang of and excellent performance. For a long time PC user, this was a nice change.
5|Very Good Product. Easy to use and has very good performance.
5|Great laptop for my son who was familiar with the Apple environment. Easy to set up and use.
5|I am very happy with my new Mac Book. Very user friendly.
4|Very good laptop for college studies. Only if it had an hdmi cable and had a lighter frame it would be the perfect laptop.
5|Since i bought my first macbook on 2007, i have never looked back! i love MacBooks. they last forever and never get viruses. not only that but their perfomance is great!
5|Very challenging and a adavance computer.handy and thin smar t piece
5|Great product for a great price.Easy to use and perfect for daily activities!
5|I got to watch a favorite TV episode that I missed when it came on the TV
5|Nice computer, have on at home. Bought for daughter in college.
4|The laptop's screen is very thin compared other laptops.
5|First MacBook. It seems very reliable and more professional that the PC I have been using
5|Perfect for college, because it's so resistant to virus'. Nice computer!
5|I got this as a College gift, after not going to school for almost two year, my husband bought me this to start my first year in College. It runs smoothly and is amazing, covering all my needs.
5|I've been thinking about getting a MacBook for a while now and I am definitely not disappointed. It has more functions, tips, and tricks than I thought and navigating is super easy! Love my new laptop!!
5|I attend the University of New Mexico and needed a laptop. I went with Apple because it has anti virus and is user friendly. I highly recommend this product to anyone. This laptop helps me to keep everything organized and safe...it is light weight and affordable.
5|I really like the Mac. It's basic programs are great for starters, and also offer a lot for pic and video editing. The only thing that I regret is the price. However, I look at it as an investment. Apple holds great value.
5|This is one if the best investments I could have made. Just simply amazing
4|Limitation from some softwares, but apple always finds a solution
4|I owe and IPhone and IPad Mini, so I need to get a system that all could work together. Next I need an desktop apple computer
1|I am very disappointed. I had used window before and windows systems is much better than mac. In the windows system, I can do different grafics, open and move easily from one document to another document without problem. However, I had a lot of problem editing documents in the mac. Mac laptop is very slow open document and Internet. Although I have internet system faster (105mbs per second), this computer mac doesn't support this speed. I spent a lot of time doing works in this mac. I prefer to keep with my windows systems. The price is cheaper with more capacity of store and velocity. Honestly, I didnt recommend this computer to my friends. If you are a person who depends of a computer to do your tasks, please thinks other alternatives computers and compare.
5|I'd recommend this laptop for anyone. It would be great for business use as well as personal. I love it!
5|Overall good system except for the performance is sluggish with multiple applications open. My old Macbook was faster overall. Even with knowing my way around a Mac I can't seem to figure out how to make it perform snappier.
5|I bought the MacBook Pro. I absolutely love it. It was easy to set to and convert my old stuff on to it. I can easily manage my accounts and all my information without a hassle.
5|Its worth the money. I bought this as a birthday gift for my wife and she loved it.
5|I would definitely suggest this especially for a college student. It never has any glitches or gives me any problems. Last for along time, no viruses or anything. Now it is different than a regular labtop and is something to get use to but it is pretty simple and doesn't take long to learn out to work it.
5|Son is very happy with the MacBook pro. Likes the ease of setup, size, speed and usability.
5|Great laptop. Works well. Fast startup. Light weight.
5|Exactly what I was looking for! I highly recommend!
4|There's just no beating a MAC it's easy to use and great for school work
4|With other options available like Mac Air and Surface Pro 3 which are very light weight and give decent performance. This seems to be bit too heavy. Other than that, I don't have any complains about it.
5|I love my MACbook. wouldn't have purchased it anywhere else
5|This is our 2nd Apple computer. We loved the 1st so much we bought another one. We have not experienced anything bad with this.
5|Love it! Does everything I need with ease. Looks cool too
5|This is the best computer I have ever owned. Works perfectly. Couldn't ask for anything better for the price!
5|Bought this laptop for my daughter's freshman year in college and so far she absolutely loves how it performs. No complaints yet.
5|Perfect for everything my daughter needs but especially great for manipulating photos quickly and easily.
5|I bought this version because of the ability to upgrade Ram to 16 GB and HD to SSD. As soon as I brought it home, I upgraded the RAM to 16GB and the HD to a Crucial SSD. Performance is great, and if HD ever fails, or I want a larger one, it is a simple, inexpensive fix. The newer Retina Macbook Pro's don't allow you to upgrade RAM and don't allow you to easily upgrade HD. You are stuck with what you get, or have to pay a very heavy premium for upgrades from Apple. I would rather stick with slightly older technology that i have the freedom to easily upgrade RAM and HD whenever I please without paying extremely high prices for Apple to do it.
5|Super fast! Great value! Just love apple products!
5|What a difference. Should have switched to a mac book sooner. Easy setup and easy to use.
5|The beat laptop for the money. This is my third MacBook and the best so far. It is easy to set up and to use. Great value and excellent quality. I highly recommend the MacBook Pro to anyone wanting to move to a Mac from a Windows machine.
5|I dont regret buying my mac book,it was worth every cent
5|My first Mac that I got to satisfy the needs of one of my accounting clients. I added 4Gb of memory and a separate keyboard with a numeric keypad and it works well. Even as a veteran PC user, I can see why Mac's have their followers!
5|This was a replacement laptop. So glad I went with the MacBook Pro!
4|Good durable computer. Best one I have owned. Nice
5|If you are looking for a laptop, the MacBook Pro is the way to go. Easy to use, boots up quickly, and it has the disc drive built in. I LOVE it!!!!
5|Fast , easy to work on I love it my best laptop ever
5|I bought the mac book pro hesitantly as I have always been a windows, android user. I was pleasantly surprised at how user friendly and easy it is to work with. So far I have been able to do school work and all other demands with only the slightest issue interfacing with Google docs. Overall I would highly recommend this computer to any who are thinking of switching to a mac.
5|Runs at such a great speed in comparison to my sony vaio.
5|This was my first MAC and it was a great choice. There is a slight learning curve when coming from a PC but it wasn't too difficult. This unit fit my needs and does everything I need it to. The only "negatives" may be the lack of software for the price versus that of a PC but luckily I was able to get MS Office for free so it wasn't a big deal. I could have went for the newer version with the Retina display and less hard drive but after comparing both units side by side I realized that as great as retina display may be it isn't a MUST to have.
5|I love this laptop. This is my first MacBook. I have always had windows based laptops. They always seem to have problems. I was told that Macs are more stable and have less problems, so I decided to try one and so far, I love it. I hope this laptop lasts me a lot longer than all my other ones.
5|I own several Apple products and everything works perfectly together. This is my second MacBook Pro because I will not buy anything other than Apple products. Perfect for what I need it for.
5|Great purchase and price!!!compared to other places to buy the product
4|Great product for the money spent. I will recommend this product to anyone looking for a fast and reliable laptop.
5|Easy to use! Very user friendly! I love the magnet power cord!
5|This is my favorite computer ever. Does everything I need to do.
5|Best laptop so far definable recommend. Yaa babyyy
5|I love my apple laptop! It is east to take to classes! It works very fast and long battery life! I love it!
4|The price is higher than windows based computers but it is much easier to setup and use.
5|It has great screen resolution. I find it fast and very easy to navigate. The price was good too!
5|So in love love my new lap top. Love the battery life
5|First time using a apple laptop an love it My niece has one an she told me to get one That I was going to like it an so far I'm very happy with it
5|The laptop is fast and good looking. Love it! Most of the time I do not have to worry about spy ware and virus.
5|I was afraid to change my old computer, but I did the best thing.
5|A 10 yrs PC user, so happy switching to Mac finally!! Everything I do on the computer has made so much better, easier, cooler, much much more enjoyable all around!
5|In very satisfied in my purchase it help me a lot.
5|Got great help. They all worked with me to get me.
5|This laptop is great for a new Mac user. Love it, I'd recommend it
5|Great purchase. I would recommend this for any college student.
5|Purchase experience was great. Sales associate was knowledgeable and able to answer all questions (&amp;amp; im not computer illiterate). Product has worked well with mo issues.
4|It is a good item. Easy to use, just sometimes the speed is a little slow when I want to run some app.
5|I'm a first time Mac owner and I couldn't be more pleased! It's a bit of a change and was hard to get used to at first, but now I am very pleased with it! Worth the price in my opinion. I've recently gone back to school to get my masters degree and this has been a blessing. Love it!
5|Only wish screen was bigger, other than that no complaints.
5|I bought this laptop so I could complete all my online courses and homework in my other classes. Not bad for pure entertainment either.
5|I saved up all my tips to earn this laptop. It's is the best laptop I have ever bought. It's sleek and easy to use. Just get use to which buttons to click and try not to use the mousepad too much.
5|This is our second MacBook for college. Fires right up in no time. Very quick processing.
5|Good buy especially if you are used to MacBooks.downloaded Word since this word processing program is mainly what colleges use.
5|Absolutely amazing product, easy to use, every good thing you've ever heard of mac products is true
5|Apple is the best from all the rest.i would recommend the Mac to everyone.
5|Fits the needs for classes and all the other fun requirements. Thought about getting the air but have had MacBook from 2007 that is still working fine. Upgraded to get the latest system
5|I absolutely love my macbook. It's lightweight and very functional for my needs. It's fast and efficient. I am very happy with my purchase.
5|Works great!!! Does everything and more that I need it to do.
4|It's pretty good. I'm a first time mac user and I was nervous at first with the learning curve and all, but I'm getting the hang of it, and I quite like it. It's pretty much what I wanted.
3|Not impressed with mac it locks up and is slower than my pc
5|Coming from a PC Apple is a little intimidating, until you open the box and power it up. Ready to go in no time. No long drawn out registration and ease of use is awesome. Added office for Mac which made it Work with other documents already in existence. Used for school, small business accounting, general Web browsing. Has not slowed down with heavy use over the last month and a half
4|The company I work with is almost entirely Mac based, we recently started issuing smaller bodied Macs to those who travel, so far the Pro is preferred over the Air. Main feedback is connectors, the Pro offer good flexibility in a convenient package size.
5|Love the computer. Great quality. Easy to use!!!!!
5|Great computer; light enough to carry; quality product I'd recommend to anyone.
5|I am a big fan of apple products. I would recommend apple to anybody
5|Apple's products are vastly superior to Microsoft's garbage. Touchpad is wonderful. The MacBook Pro synced all my web browser favorites and all my contacts with my iMac. This product is so easy to use, so convenient, so powerful; I can't say anything bad about it. Long live Apple!
5|Love the Magic Mouse, it's really easy to use and does so much more than the touch pad can do
5|This Mac computer is the ideal set up for a college student, and is hard wired to protect against viruses and the like. Most students my age are usually doing something weird on their computer, and this one ensures that your work is safe while also letting you have some fun. A PC could not handle that for much longer than a year.
5|Fast and dependable computer like other of my apple products. Wonderful graphics.
5|Workhorse of a laptop. Home office use. Apple just works - always.
5|I have always liked the Apple products. Easy to use and no problems with viruses.
4|this is the same computer my kids use at school, so it was a great fit
5|Nice computer. Fast. Looks nice . Sleek. Up to date software.
5|For the price this computer is excellent for school and just to surf the internet.
5|You do need to order a mouse to supplement the touchpad.
5|This is a great purchase, should have done this along time ago
5|same like all apple products this one is also a great one
5|Easy to get up and running. Screen size and clarity is good. No issues with functionality of the machine. Excellent purchase for its size, and price. Fulfills my needs of a quality product, portable, durable, and easy to use.
5|We really love how compatible apple products are with each other
4|This MBP will be replacing the one that I've been using for the last few years. I decided to go with another one because they're super reliable, easy to use, and I feel, best value for your money all-around, especially if you use programs only available for Mac. One thing that made me jump on this computer is that is still has the 500GB HD, as I'm weary of the flash storage and everything else that is coming along with new ones these days. There are a couple problems I had with this computer right off the bat, however. About two days in, the HD basically "unmounted" itself, so I had to reinstall the entire OS and didn't have time to set up a time machine or anything yet. These new computers DO NOT come with physical copies of the OS any longer, which are great to use for emergency repair or reinstallation. Now is where it get's weird, for me, at least. These computers basically absolutely refuse to connect to anything using a WEP key and are sometimes picky with routers as it is (especially Actiontec, in my experience) so you generally have to use WPA2. The OS had to be downloaded from the internet, and if your router isn't set up with WPA2 or your computer just downright doesn't like your router, you'll find yourself running around town looking for places to go sit around for a few hours to get your computer working. For some reason, it wouldn't even recognize a hardwire directly on the router or anything. Other than that odd problem, and I highly doubt that that would happen to too many people, the only thing I feel this computer is lacking is a little more RAM. I'd say go ahead and invest in that upgrade. It's well worth it. As far as the display goes, this one doesn't have Retina, but if you've never had Retina before, it's not like you're going to miss it. ;) Overall, I'd say for this price, and then maybe even including that RAM upgrade and a WD portable HD for using as a time machine, this is one of the best investments you can make if you're looking for a new computer that will serve for years yet.
5|I love my MacBook.... It's amazing and customer service was great as we'll.
5|The Mac book is the best laptop I've ever had!!!!!
5|Had a PC. Liked it, but I love this one. Everything syncs. iPad,iPhone and my Mac. Now I'm totally on the same page no matter what I'm using.
5|The computer has a lot of EXCELLENT features !!!!!
5|I love the Mac Book, I couldn't be happier it's easy to use and works for all of my classes in college
5|Works very well for my school work. Very compatible.
4|Purchased for college. My daughter loved the ease of it and the compact size.
5|I fought getting a Mac for some time. My husband finally convinced me and I love it.
5|The Mac is fast, and the sound is perfect. The brightness is great, an the pictures are awesome. On settings, it's fun to get a new wallpaper and the Mac makes it easy.
5|This laptop is too fast , it's smooth and sexy way better than dealing with windows 8
4|Very good, works really nicely for what I need it to
5|Easy to learn. Instructions are simple. Customer service is great. No problems so far. Brought as my final laptop for years to come based on a friend's recommendation. I have no regrets. Love the fact it fix in my purse and not hassles getting through airport security.
5|High-end ultra portable laptop with good battery life.
5|I like my MacBook Pro!! It's a great laptop but the only problem is the battery life.
5|I have always bought Dell computers, I went thru 4 in the last 5 yrs hard drives went up in them. I decided to try a apple computer and Im glad I did, lightning fast and no freeze ups and having to shut down like my dells. Only time will tell the real value.
5|I love apple products this PC is perfect for everything
4|Love this comp awesome.Runs well and simple to use! All with the sleek design of Apple
4|It's a good investment. Great programs and it's fast.
5|I was really looking forward to this computer for college and now I know I made a good choice.
5|Switching from a PC, I was intimidated by a Mac, but I am so happy I made the switch.
5|I'm loving my new MacBook Pro.... And I'm just getting started!!
5|Love this computer! I was using a Windows tablet with the insipid Windows 8 OS. What a difference. Everything syncs seamlessly and is so much easier to use! I find it hard to put it down.
5|Hard to get used to since I always owned a PC..but once I got the hang of it ..I loved it!!
5|Efficient and reliable! Will never by a different one again
4|I love my MAC laptop. It was easy to transition from the windows to the MAC programs. I like how it is set up and it's easy to navigate.
4|great computer for a college student - it's lightweight.
5|This Mac is awesome everything I want never go back to windows again
5|Apple Macbooks are always a good choice for college bound students.
5|I enjoyed this notebook, and it helps me doing my business with efficiency and effectiveness.
4|I've had this laptop for about two weeks now and I'd have to say - not bad. Like all Apple products, the simplicity of the laptop makes it easy to set up with everything you need already installed. Things like Safari (Internet), Contacts, iMessage, Music, and any other apps are easily accessible from the toolbar at the bottom. Never having a Macbook before, though, it took me a little while to figure out how to use the touchpad. I can't wait to take this thing with me to college this fall. It's small enough for a backpack and I love typing on this thing which will make it great for notes. It's battery life is pretty impressive too. And with the student discount added to the already marked-down price, it made it much more affordable for me. I'd recommend this to any student but get the $100 off discount!
1|I bought it 2 days ago and it work for a minute the internet conection. All the other computers in the house work well and get in the internet fast. I am thinking to return it because i saw some reviews in other websites and the other costumers say they had the same problem too.
5|I have 2 kids in college now and they both have a Mac and they have not had any problems or issues with them. They are fast, compact and worth every penny.
5|I bought my daughter her first Mac in 2005. This is only her second in that time span and she is thrilled with the product. It doesn't hurt that it was a gift of course. For her photography in particular it is a great fit.
5|everything about this laptop is great. The size is perfect and the sound is extremely awesome. Compared to all of the other laptops that I've had in the past is that theres no comparison. Cost is higher than any other but the value that you're getting is just incomparable. Theres so many things that I can use this far and I'm sure that i will never learn everything that this thing offers. May be the last laptop hat i will ever need.
5|I really dig my MacBook Pro. It's very user friendly, powerful, and beautiful to look at. Well worth the high price tag. I view it as an investment.
4|Apple products in general take a while to get use to. I was not too familiar with how Mac's work so it took time to get use to. However I am still learning new tricks and the basics of my new laptop. But overall, this was a good purchase for what I intend to use it for. Fast, lots of space, modern/up-to-date and runs programs great for editing videos. Highly recommend it for those who enjoy using GoPro or shoot a lot of film.
5|Really happy with purchase. Would recommend to my friends easy to use
5|My daughter got this computer for use at college. She loves it so far and it is so user friendly!
5|This is the best computer/Laptop I have ever had in my life! I have had multiple Dell and Samsung computers and they all turned to smack in about a year, but this computer has yet to stutter even when running multiple programs at once. This computer has a big price tag for a reason. Simply put you will not be disappointed.
5|Everyone had told me how hard the mac was to use after using a pc. It has been so easy to use. I love it!!!
5|This has been my first laptop. I would definitely buy another one.
5|It is really a great mac laptop! I love it!!! I would recommend it to my friends and family. This is the first time I have ever used a mac and I love it! I was a little frustrated at first due to me also buying parallels and adding my regular laptop programs but after playing with it I really love it!
5|The MacBook Pro is very quick and effective. It is great for my daughter to use in college
5|I went from a 15" Macbook Pro to this 13" and only barely realized the size difference. The only thing I would say is an issue is that sometimes the computer lags a bit, but I am using a lot of windows at once sometimes. I love this computer. The operating system is fantastic, the battery life is great, the customization is nice, sharp display, great sound, lightweight design...I am very pleased with this purchase.
5|Been a loyal Mac user since 1985. I find I replace them roughly every 5-8 years as opposed to my counterpart Windows users, who replace theirs every 1-4 years. The higher sticker price is well worth it when it costs far less in the long run. The stability and quality performance of the Mac (both hardware and software) means minimal maintenance costs. Plus the ease of use is great for everyone. Extremely user friendly, straight forward and simply elegant.
4|This product is exactly what my son was hoping for. We do wish it had more software included, of course..
5|This computers really awesome. I use it a lot and it will help me in school.
5|I am so glad I finally switched to the MAC for my everyday use. It is compatible with my iPad, iPhone and all my technology needs. It is easy to use and I know it will last much longer than any other computer I had in the past. The sound is great for music, the keyboard is comfortable, and the screen is very clear and easy viewing on the eyes.
5|using for college, so happy to finally own an Apple Mac Book!
4|This laptop is a bit heavy but worth it. Bet Buy locally does not carry enough accessories for it though. Definitely a mind set change after only sung Microsoft products. Do wish it had a ten key on keyboard but that was the next budget up.
4|great for the first time user to apple lap top fast and easy
5|Perfect for my application !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5|This computer is perfect for a college freshman!!!
5|It's been the best decision I've ever made when I decided to switch from PC to Mac,it's amazing how the Apple products are so reliable,no headaches with antivirus and annoying daily updates to fix bugs in your computer. The best of all,unlike PC,they make the hardware compatible with the software,so it's the perfect match,and you can't top that. Great quality,great performance,amazing graphics,fast information processing,overall excellent product.
5|I love my Mac Book pro that I got for college. I got Microsoft word, power point, and excel on it for college. I also use my MacBook Pro to watch movies, and surf the web, and I absolutely love everything about this computer.
5|I bought my 1st one 6 months ago and I loved it so much I had to buy one for my girlfriend! Ive yet to have one issue. I love Apple!
5|Easy to use and worth every penny I spent on it. It is compact and lightweight. Easy to carry around
5|One of the best machine out there, it doesn't hurt your eyes and it doesn't get stuck at all
4|I'm hoping the reviews I've heard from others regarding the MAC will be well-served. I bought a computer four years ago, not a MAC, and the screen BLACKED OUT. I bought the MAC primarily based on its reputation. Hope all goes well.
5|Great product, I love it and have had no issues with it and I even got the product with an open box discount and a student discount which made it even better. It works well and like mentioned on the open box description, it is in excellent condition
5|Amazing, I now get why Apple rules the marketplace. The product is incredible. Fast, Easy to use. It is expensive but I can understand why now.
5|Instant start ready to work connects with all my gear no need to loan the drivers for legacy products, works with my iPhone and iPad simple amazing. Why haven't I made this move sooner? Price! But it's worth every penny
4|i recommend it. Easy to use and relatively light. Good sound quality.
5|Love the new laptop. We bought it for my daughter as a college present and so far she is loving it. Easy to use and most universities are using Apple these days. A little pricey or the projected life span but it at least lasts longer than a PC.
5|Purchased for my daughter for her summer semester of school, she loves it and it does everything she needs it to.
5|LOVE MY MACBOOK! IT IS SO LIGHT AND EASY TO CARRY FROM CLASS TO CLASS. i SET IT UP IN ABOUT 10 MINUTES AND WORKS LIKE A BREEZE!
5|Great laptop very fast very user friendly overall very happy with the purchase
5|got this for a graduation gift. my daughter loves it.
5|The macbook pro is definitely a great product. I love using it, and I love the portability of it.
5|Bought for wife for school. So far she loves it! Have only had for a little over a month now. Never had a problem with Apple computers before so figured why not give it a shot.
4|Very complicated to adapt, despite of what I heard.
5|I like my Macbook. Very slick. Fast processing. Nice retina display.
5|Very convenient, and easy to use. Not extremely powerful though. The battery life is great but not quite as long as advertised (although longer than some others). I plan on using this laptop for school next semester, and it's been pretty good so far.
5|Very easy to learn features! My son loves it for school!
4|I recommend this computer for ease of use. for a good "help and support" section. great battery life. lightweight. Excellent for writing documents, for managing music. itunes is great for creating playlists and burning cds. I hope to have this computer for a long time.
5|This was a great gift. I love the flexibility of moving around with it. I tunes is very fast compared to my old desktop
5|Bought this for our daughter for college and it has performed flawlessly.
4|It's amazing I love my laptop way to much it's has everything I need
4|If you want ample storage and the CD/DVD disk drive, this is the only MacBook alternative you have. Sure, it's heavy. Yes, it has moving parts (the new ones don't) because of the drives. The 13" screen is taking me some getting used to, since I had a 15" previously, but it's still way better than most any PC laptop. I'll never go back to Windows after having a Mac (especially since they came out with that Windows 8 nonsense)! The 500GB without needing external storage &amp;amp; and an external cd drive was worth the extra weight &amp;amp; lack of retina display. If you've never had retina display, you won't miss it, and if you're switching from PC, you'll still be amazed at the quality &amp;amp; speed.
5|Love our new Macbook Pro. Switched from windows to mac and will never go back
5|I love this computer!! It runs quick, the display is beautiful, and works great if you have other apple products. It was defiantly worth the money!!
5|This is by far the best computer I've ever purchased. I will never by another PC. The whole purchasing experience was amazing. I recommend the time capsule for backup just in case.
4|I fell in Love with the mac book as I tried it in the store and just had to have it.
1|Since buying the computer in Jan of 2014, I have reinstalled the OS TWICE. Then last night, i had a hardware failure. I truly hope Apple stands by their product. Next time, I am getting a microsoft product. Truly disappointing. I will post an update of what happens with the service.
5|I love my mac book. the battery life is a bit low since i was used to a windows laptop.
5|Uses it everyday. Great battery. We are changing from a Microsoft household to a Mac household
5|This laptop exceeded my expectations. I love how easy it is to use. Great laptop
5|Love my Mac. Doesn't get viruses nearly as much as a PC does and has double the battery life. Never will buy anything but a Mac again!
5|First Mac I have owned but have iPhone and iPad. I love how they operate and communicate. Price is high like most apple products but I think it will be well worth it.
5|I purchased the same computer 3 years ago. I liked everything about this computer. I gave first one to my elder daughter when she graduated from high school. This time I bought it for my younger daughter for her high school graduation gift. I could not think of any other gift that I could give them after their graduation. My elder daughter is using this last three years. She loves it. I am sure that my younger daughter will find it extremely useful for her studies in college like her elder sister. I feel very proud that I gave something very good and useful to my children.
5|No issues with this Mac. I use it for my homework and surfing social media and websites
4|I have had my MacBook for about a month and have been very pleased with it. It has a great battery life and several amazingly useful features that I haven't even begun to explore fully. I would recommend buying a CD to download Microsoft Office if you're most accustom to it. It would also be helpful to learn how to download Adobe updates right away. Otherwise, a lot of content will be blocked when you conduct internet searches and click on links that require Adobe.
5|This Macbook was purchased for my daughter for school and it is exactly what she needed.
5|I bought this MAC for my 14 year old daughter because she loves to make videos and edit pictures.
5|Finally went and upgraded my system. After years of procrastinating I decided to get the Apple. It's so easy to set up and navigate. It the beginning it was a little getting used to but once you get going it's a breeze. Don't know why it took me so long.
5|With the mac book pro, we can play and view our media so seamlessly. Making the transition from a CPU to the mac book was a little intimidating but it didn't take long to efficiently and effectively begin using our new mac.
5|Though not retina, the visual of the Apple MacPro 13inch is astounding.
5|Bought this computer for my daughter for college in the fall and she loves it!
4|Great computer. Lightweight. It takes some time to get use to using a Mac. The only thing I don't like is that I have to be connected to wifi in order to have access to my pictures. They're in iPhoto, which doesn't work if there's no wifi.
5|I love this computer, I can honestly say the only down side is the price, and that it doesn't come with excel and microsoft word considering what you pay for it.
5|After looking at all laptop options, the MacPro Book was well worth the price. Easy to use , fast processor and graphics are great. Will look to buy another for our other children.
5|First Apple computer purchase (for our college freshman). Awesome choice!
5|Portable, easy to use straight out of the box, great computer
5|Good look, no anti virus needed, life time free os upgrade, good resolution, easy set up, compact size, very good quality, Good speed,
5|I love this laptop every day I find something you and just think about it
5|I really liked my MacBook for the short two weeks I had it. Unfortunately it was stolen and I don't have the money at the present time to replace it.
5|Mac all the way. Great for my high school student.
5|From the time I open my Mac Book Pro is was easy to set up and to use. I travel a lot so I need something reelable for School, my ministry and for my business. I went through many laptops before I decided to by the Mac Book pro. This is by far the best lop that I could have bought.
5|I needed a reliable computer for school and this macbook pro is perfect for that! I'm super happy with this computer. It's pretty easy to use and I'm still learning more and more how to use it but I'm a computer novice and it takes me a second to figure out electronics. I would recommend this computer to anyone!
5|this laptop is great love to work on it with editing photos.
5|This is a great computer. It has everything that I need to upload pictures and be on the internet. It was easy to set up and get things done on.
5|I really love the ease of use. Very fast boot up and shut down.
5|I purchased this computer after hearing great reviews from my peers and wanting to get a computer to replace my PC. I have had no problems in the first several weeks of owning it and have adapted quickly to the operating system.
5|I am overall extremely happy with this product. It is an excellent product.
5|Just over six years ago I made the decision to convert our entire office from PCs to Macs. This involved some 20 computers being purchased and installed. Today, I just retired one of the first Macs we purchased as part of our transition. The purchase of this 13" MacBook Pro is for a new staff member and I'm confident that I won't be replacing it anytime soon. Apple's attention to detail and balance of machine and operating system are the keys to their success. It isn't about being cool or trendy, it's about saving money in the long run by removing the need for an IT person on staff.
5|This was a gift for my 65 year old mother. Right out of the box, we had her set up in about 15 minutes. She was checking email, taking pictures, and using FaceTime right away. Now she can check on her grandchildren throughout the country and they can see each other. Mac is the best. Great for school, work, and grandparents!
5|Bought this computer for each of my three kids, all of whom are in college. Each of them love it!
5|Bought this for school. I love that I can add apps right on to the desktop. Works great.
5|I purchased this from BB as a gift for my daughter. She have chosen it bec of the features and the price is right. It is very user friendly and is great for students. I would highly recommend this to everyone.
5|Great investment. I have been planning to purchase the MacBook Pro for a very long time. Recently when my third desktop PC died, I immediately knew it was time make "the purchase".
5|I love this computer. I haven't had a Mac in awhile, so I am still getting used to it. However, I like how quickly it operates, ease of use, and that it compatible with my other apple devices.
4|Im new to using the MacBook's. But im glad I made the switch. Its a lot different from PC, but when you figure it out its got the same capabilities and is a lot safer from the virus world.
5|Is a great laptop better than the Microsoft also easier too used and works great and long battery life
5|Amazing computer, incredibly easy to use, secure and trustful.
4|Expensive but it's a Mac. Not for first time Mac users but excellent for those who know what they want.
5|good product. easy to use and set up. don't like the control pad. it needs to be a touch pad. my finger hurts when i need to delete a lot of emails at once
5|This is my second MacBook Pro. I'm not a "techie" and this laptop is very user friendly. It has all the programs installed when you buy it which is quite a savings.
5|I finally made the switch from a PC to a Mac and I love it! I don't know what took me so long! If you have other apple products, this MacBook ties everything together for you. Macs connect friendly to social media networks as well. This specific Macbook has a CD drive - which was essential for me. It might be a little heavier than the air or pro retina, but we're not talking about any heavy lifting. Moreover you don't need a pro retina unless you're doing photoshop all the time. If you want the luxury of a macbook with the convenience of a CD drive, tons of storage, and you're not a professional photographer, this is the product for you!
5|Replace my older 17" macbook pro with this and am happy with the portability and resolution.
