4|BEAUTY WITH BRAINS! Update: The SD card issue has been solved in the latest software patch with oxygen OS 2.1.3 INTRODUCTION One Plus, a Chinese smart phone start up, made waves last year, when they launched the much lauded One Plus One. Packed with flagship level internals, and an unbelievable price tag, One Plus One soon became the heartthrob of the smart phone market. Earlier this year, One Plus announced its successor, the One Plus Two. However, the phone could not live up to the hype generated by its predecessor, and the continuance of the invite-only system made prospective buyers look elsewhere. And now, One Plus has launched their first mid-range smart phone, in an attempt to reclaim its lost glory. Will it? UNBOXING Unboxing the One Plus X, I couldn’t help but marvel at the beauty of the packaging and their attention to detail. You get a charger, a high quality flat-wired micro-USB cable along with the usual literature, and of course the One Plus X itself. One Plus has also included a translucent back cover, but some part of it seemed to stick to the phone and it looked ugly. I am unsure whether this happened with others. Anyways, One Plus has also included a factory-fitted clear- screen guard. But, be careful while peeling off the protective film, as you may remove the screen guard along with it. DESIGN AND BUILD QUALITY On paper, one plus seems to be a rejigged One Plus One, with the same internals and price bracket. But one look at the phone and you will know the difference. With glass to the front and back and metal to the sides, this phone looks and feels gorgeous. The device sports a Corning Gorilla Glass 3 covered 5” AMOLED display, flanked by the earpiece sensors, 8 MP front camera and a notification LED at the top and the reversible capacitive keys at the bottom. The back has a shiny, glossy, inky-black scratch resistant glass with the One Plus logo and a 13MP camera and LED flash, flush to the back. The edges are metal clad, with 17 high precision microcuts, which gives the phone a good grip. The sim tray (housing a hybrid dual SIM/ microSD card slot), volume rockers and the power button are to the right, while we see the alert slider from the One Plus Two on the left. The top has a 3.5 mm audio jack and the secondary noise cancellation microphone, while the single firing speaker, the micro USB port (not USB type-c) and the primary microphone are at the bottom. The dual speaker grille, out of which only one fires, gives the phone a beautiful symmetry and shows the attention to detail. The front and back panel has 2.5D curved glass that hides the bezels and gives the phone a premium, elegant look. At about 6.9 mm thick and under 140g, the phone is extremely compact and single handed usage is a breeze. Yes, the glass is a finger print magnet and is slippery, but that is to be expected. These minor gripes aside, the One Plus X is the best looking phone I have ever seen. It has its inspirations, but it still manages to stand out on its own. DISPLAY As mentioned above, One Plus has gone with an AMOLED panel in the One Plus X, and hence it has punchier colours, deep blacks and excellent viewing angles. The screen has a resolution of 1980x1080 with a pixel density of 441ppi. The display is bright and sharp with no pixilation. An AMOLED display also means One Plus X can make use of features like ambient display (screen lights up when you get a notification) and proximity wake (waving your hand over the sensors will bring up the time and notifications) without eating up the battery life, since only individual pixels needs to turned on, unlike an LCD display. One Plus also has a dark mode enabled by default, which further helps in the battery longevity, while differentiating the phone from other vanilla android counterparts. However the auto brightness was a bit too unreliable and I had to turn it off. I hope a software patch will fix this. And I hope one plus implement a colour calibration option, so that people wanting accurate colour temperatures can tone down the saturation. Also, the whites have a slight bluish tint at certain angles. It is invisible if you won’t look for it, but I thought it was worth mentioning. PERFORMANCE The phone, though a mid-ranger, does not come with mid-range internals. Instead of going for a Snapdragon 615 or a 617, One Plus has packed this phone with last year’s Snapdragon 801 chipset. This means, the phone has four Krait 400 cores, clocked at 2.3 GHz each, and an Adreno 330 GPU (clocked at 578 MHz). It has 3 GB of RAM an 16 GB of onboard storage, out of which about 11 GB is free on the first boot (the storage is expandable). Note that, contrary to reports, this is not the Snapdragon 801 used in the One Plus One. That was an overclocked CPU, namely, the MSM8974AC. The one used in the One Plus X is the MSM8974AB. This doesn’t mean much to the normal user, for whom, the performance will be a breeze. Apps open quickly, there is minimal lag and the huge RAM means multitasking is never a problem. Even gaming was a pleasant experience, with even high-end games like Modern Combat 5 played fine. Only Asphalt 8 displayed slight choppiness, but that may be a software issue due to lack of optimisation, which will, most likely, be fixed. In fact only if you compare it with the current gen flagships, would you notice any difference, which is excellent for a mid-ranger. There s slight heating in the back panel, when the device is put to intensive usage, but it does not get over the 45 Celsius mark Many would lament the absence of a 64 bit processing unit, but honestly, for that technology to become the norm, it would take at least a few more years, and until then it is just a spec to gloat about. HARDWARE The One Plus X continues the dual sim functionality introduced in the one plus 2, but this time, it is a hybrid slot! Yes, one plus finally has a device which supports microSD upto 128 GB, that is, if you omit the dual sim functionality. There are two nano sim slots, with the second one doubling up as a microSD card slot. Both sim slots support 4G LTE, but only one can be activated at a time, while the other will run on 2G. The alert slider is also a useful feature, and has been revamped for a more pronounced texture and better feedback. There are three options; slide from the bottom, once for priority notifications and twice for no notification while the option at the bottom enables all notifications. The volume output from the bottom-firing speaker is pretty loud and clear, though a wee bit tinny. An inbuilt equalizer could solve the problem by bumping up the bass. However the volume output from the headphone jack was excellent. I tested it with the Xiaomi Pistion 3 and the Audio Technica ATH M20-x and I was impressed. The vocals are great, there is no breaking and the bass is adequate. The call quality via the microphone and the signal reception too were excellent, though I must say I had a couple of call drops. This might be a carrier issue, but I am not sure. A lot of hardware features present in the One Plus One and one plus two have been omitted. There is no NFC, so Android Pay is off. The fingerprint scanner is also omitted, probably to cut costs. Along with these, there are also some unnecessary omissions which One Plus seems to have made. For one, the capacitive keys aren’t backlit. And more importantly, the more powerful 5 GHz WiFi band is missing. For US buyers, a major issue might be the lack of LTE, with bands 12 and 17 not supported. This means both T Mobile and AT&T customers will be stuck on the HSPA networks (3G). However, most international customers have no such issues and in India, Airtel’s 1800MHz and 2300MHz bands are fully supported. There is also no wireless charging or quick charging, and the USB-C type found in the One Plus Two has been replaced by the older micro USB port. BATTERY The One Plus X packs in 2525 mAh battery, and the battery life is above average. On a moderate day of usage, you will be able to last a full day with about 3.5-4 hours of screen-on-time. However, with a day of heavy usage, you might last only about 9 hours with 5 hours screen-on-time. On a looping video playback test in half brightness and full volume (in MX Player), the phone drained from 100% to 0% in about 8 hours. Though wireless charging and fast charging aren’t supported, it doesn’t make a huge difference, as the small 2525 mAh battery charges up reasonably fast with the included accessories SOFTWARE The One Plus X runs on Android 5.1.1, lollipop. However, after the bitter breakup with Cyanogen, One Plus X runs on its own custom android skin Oxygen OS 2.1.2. However, unlike other manufacturer overlays, one plus has a bloat free, almost vanilla interface with some nifty features added for customisation. First, there is the dark mode, which inverts the stock android look. There are features like App permissions (permissions manager on a per-app level), notifications manager (micro-manage app notifications) and quick settings management (choose which quick settings to be displayed in the notification toggle). The Shelf feature from the One Plus Two makes a return. Shelf is a feature which displays your widgets, recent apps and contacts in the leftmost home screen. It is harmless and useful at times, and at worst, it can be turned off. The gesture support from the previous one plus iterations, including double tap to wake, drawing an O or a V to open the camera and turn on the flash light from the lock screen respectively are also present and accounted for. Minor customisations like the ability to change the LED notification and the accent colour gives the user to make minor cosmetic yet unobtrusive changes to the UI. The ability to turn on screen navigation overlay and swap buttons are highly appreciated, especially since the capacitive buttons aren’t backlit. A huge bug in the UI is in the microSD detection. While the file manager shows the card, and you can use it for multimedia storage, it doesn’t show up in the storage options, thereby not allowing apps to be moved to the SD card. The good news is, One Plus is aware of the issue and an OTA update is promised. All in all, Oxygen OS is a great Android UI, one of the few which gives valuable customisation options without tinkering with Google’s version of an Android experience. It is also quite stable with no app crashes or slow downs. At worst, the added features can be ignored and you can enjoy a stock android experience. Add to that, One Plus has an excellent software team working round the clock, solving bugs, making performance improvements and adding features. The Marshmallow update is also promised in the next year Q1, so software wise, you are covered. CAMERA The One Plus X comes packed with 13 MP (4:3 aspect ratio) rear camera with LED flash, while there is an 8MP fixed focus front facing camera for selfie lovers. The primary camera, contrary to reports is not the same one used in either of the two previous One Plus smart phones. One Plus, this time went with a Samsung ISOCELL sensor with an f2.2 aperture and phase detection autofocus. This is the same sensor used in the Samsung Galaxy S5, but the similarity ends there. The photos are average at best, with unreliable exposure compensation and colour accuracy. Sometimes, the photos come out pretty good, while other times, it’s pretty disappointing. However, there is minimal shutter lag, the dynamic range is good and the saturation levels give punchier photos. The detailing and sharpness are also pretty good, as long as you don’t zoom in. All this is however in outdoor shots, with high noise levels creeping in, in low light and artificial lighting conditions. Move in to video, and it gets terrible. The video maxes out at 1080p, and that too is very bad. It is shaky, loses focus quickly and has a lot of ghost effects. The front facing camera, on the other hand is excellent. With a wide angle lens and an f2.4 aperture, even artificial lighting produces great results. The beauty mode also helps without going overboard. The video quality of the front camera is also pretty good for Skype calls, and it also shoots at 1080p. The camera app is bare bones, and offers basic features like a timer, panorama, slow motion and time lapse. Swipe up or down in the viewfinder for modes, and oddly, in the panorama mode, the orientation shifts to portrait mode, which is annoying. The photo mode also has clear image and HDR. While clear image is pretty good (it takes 10 shots of the same image to create the perfect shot, in theory), HDR just cranks up the exposure, without doing anything about the blown up highlights. And both take a couple seconds extra, though that is acceptable. The ring along with the focus tap, to adjust exposure is a welcome feature, though it is not as perfected as the one, say, in MIUI. Overall, the camera is the phone’s weakest link, though it has to do more with software than hardware. I am sure, the camera interface and the quality will improve in coming times. And, don’t get me wrong, this camera is perfect for social media and instagramming, it’s just not for photography geeks. MY TAKE Overall, despite its flaws and trade-offs, One Plus X is a solid phone. And at a price of Rs 16999 or $249, it is the best smart phone money can buy! That is – if you can get your hands on an invite. This time, however, invites are available in plenty, and more often than not, you can grab an invite with a little effort. Moreover, the phone will go on open sale within a month, so that should please a lot of people. In my opinion, no phone is perfect. And everything comes at a price. For me, I need great looks, a great performance, and decent battery life. Issues like lack of NFC, a 64bit processor, 5GHz WiFi band, a finger print scanner and fast charging doesn’t matter to me, for I don’t use any of these. And I like a minimalistic and aesthetic design, so I like One Plus X more than the One Plus One too. So, in my humble, personal opinion, I love the OPX. I think it is a great phone. Some of cons do not affect me, others I trust the company to fix soon. But,I diligently, mentioned all the pros and cons of the device, to the best of my abilities, now the choice is yours. My opinion – GO FOR IT! PS: there is a limited edition ceramic variant also available in Europe and India for a higher price of Rs.22999. It is entirely the same as the variant reviewed here (Onyx), other than the built (fire-baked ceramic). This is my first review, so if you liked it, I would appreciate an upvote. For my blog, check out nikhillethasoman.com and www.facebook.com/nikhillethasoman. Thank you :)
3|One plus x doesn't allow u to choose the SIM to make a call. Whatever preference u set in call settings, either of ur two sims is used to call irrespective of ur choice. Called their technical support n they said the issue will b resolved in next oxygen update. Keeping fingers crossed. Till then wud advise u guys to not purchase it. Hope this issue gets resolved, else will return my one plus x on Amazon n maybe buy a moto x play...
5|This is what you all want under 17000/- INR. Let's start with its display Must say it's better than previous One plus devices as I have One plus 2. Well Oneplus X has amoled display of 441ppi. Colors are more deep and sharp. About body What a fabulous design. Inherited from Apple iPhone 4S and some of their own like alert slider and slim Ness. Must say it's beauty. Metal frame from side and back panel made of glass makes you feel richer. Camera Front Camera is good but little disappointed with rear. Auto focus wasn't that much better and pics wasn't that much good maybe a software bug. So it will be resolved. Well Now performance 3GB of ram with 2.3Ghz clocked makes sense but perhaps when you get the hands on this phone you won't feel like to play games in this beauty. These hardware will later allow you to customize your device like rooting and take it to next level. You can play games in this but the dimension and thinness of this device won't let you play for long. So upto you and I don't recommend to play High end games in this as of heating issue which is in the genes of Snapdragon 801 soc processor. Well this is it. Thanks for reading it. If you have 20000 /- wait for yutopia then or else go for this blindly. Remember it comes with previous applied screen protector and now this time with transparent back cover also. Thanks for reading this. Hit like if you find it helpful to you.
5|Just received the Phone. Here is the Initial review of the Phone: Build: The build for the phone feels solid, Glass front and back, Attracts a LOT of fingerprint. Luckily there is a Silicon Case provided in the box. I would not use the Phone without a protective case. Looks: 10/10, Stunning looks, fashionable for sure. Performance: The phone is smooth and fluid, Does heat up on the top left corner when gaming for 30+ Mins, Dual Sim works fine, yet to test it with a microSD Card. The screen being AMOLED is a BIG ADVANTAGE. It renders neat blacks and bright colors, the best screen by OnePlus as of now. Not much to say at this point about performance, will update the review in a few days. Things to Note: 1. The phone has a pre installed screen guard, take care while removing the front screen cover when out of box, chances are, you will pull the screen guard apart too. 2. Silicone Case is provided in the box. Good move, because there are no other cases available as on date. Cons: The glass build, is nice to have but I would be double cautious with the phone, A single drop might break the screen is what I am scared about. No NFC. But no one used it anyway.
5|This is the undoubtedly the best mobile phone one can get under 20k keeping in mind its brand value, hardware and its absolutely gorgeous looks. To anyone at first glance, it looks like at least a 50k phone. It has a nice slim design, with black glass both at the front and back. The metallic rim has lines engraved for superior grip and feel. Pros:- 1.) Performance : Brilliant performance with no lag whatsoever. Gaming is butter smooth. No complaints here. 2.) Looks : As I have mentioned before, this phone looks costlier than it actually is. It's slim body gives it superior feel. And, surprisingly it is not heavy at all. 3.) Display : It's 1080p AMOLED screen is treat for the eyes. Colour reproduction and pixel density is perfect for crisp sharp display with high colour contrast. I personally like the 5-inch phones because they are easy to handle and operate with one hand. 4.) Camera : The quality of both front(8 MP) and back(12.4 MP) camera is quite remarkable with sharp images. Low-light images are somewhat grainy but not too bad for my liking.The camera app is stock android with in-built features of Timelapse, Slow-Mo video recording, Panorama etc. Cons : 1.) OxygenOS 2.1 I personally love customizing my Android phone and OxygenOS really lacks in that. With some minimum features like Dark Mode Theme, rearranging of Status bar tiles and the support of a few gestures, CyanogenOS is much better in that respect. But, if you like the stock android feel, then this OS won't disappoint you.It doesn't come preloaded with many apps and is very close to Stock Android OS that comes loaded in the Moto and Nexus Series. 2.)It is a Dual SIM OR a Single SIM + SD Card. You cannot have a Dual SIM + SD card. It uses the SIM2 slot as SD card slot. So if you want a Dual SIM + SD card, this will disappoint you. 3.) After Sales Support. Oneplus as a company is indeed trying to improve its customer support but currently it is not upto the mark. With very few Service Centers available, it could be a hassle for you if the need of servicing arises. Overall Verdict: OxygenOS is still in its infancy. I am sure future updates will give it more customisabality. And if you are a customization freak, I am sure you can flash the ROM of your choice ;) For me, it is the best 17k I have ever spent. PS: I will add some Camera photos for you to judge soon.
5|I am an engineering student, trust me. :D I am not gonna tell you about the specifications or the pros and cons about this phone, that I am sure you've already read. What I am gonna tell you is my simple personal experience. After reading many articles, watching reviews on YouTube and stuff. I finally decided to buy it. (Given my budget of 17k I was really confused between this and J7 but I took courage and bought one plus x, courage because, it was a new brand and doesn't have many service centres and stuff. But now I that I have it I am glad that I didn't buy that s***ty Samsung again.) Yeah so now, It's UI is amazing. The oxygen OS is the best thing ever. Body WINS it. My friends have iPhone and both me and everyone agrees one plus x WINS it over any phone in the market. Body is just perfect. Class is the word. Screen and colours is just beautiful. Phone doesn't hang at all. Doesn't heat. Charges in 2 hours Max. Gaming experience is wow. Camera was one thing I read in some reviews that it wasn't uo to mark. TRUST ME PEOPLE, Camera is outstanding! Both front and back cam give exceptional photos. Yeah, in very dark places or night the image does get a little grainy but doesn't matter much, unless you are some wanna be photographer or s*** like that. I use Snapchat insta all the time and nothings wrong. Another great thing unlike other phones it doesn't have useless pre installed apps which take phone's space :D Speakers are great too, gesture thing is my fav part of the phone. In all, if you were to ask me whether to buy it or not? I'd say HELL YEAH!
5|Hello guys, i bought this mobile on the first sale on 5 nov and until now i have been using it.I didn't update the review because there's so much happening in this handset and it's just not fair to give a review for such a mighty device without using it for a while. Please read these reviews before buying http://goo.gl/DyfXEO So, read my review if you want to know 'If it's perfect for you?'. First of all this is what i like most about this phone: 1-Perfect size and candybar shape. 2-Eye catching looks 3-Premium Build quality 4-Good pair of camera, pretty fast. 5-Decent performance. 6-Above average battery life for such a well equipped device . 7-No heating issues. 8-Very fluid OS with frequent software update support. DETAILED REVIEW --------------------------- DESIGN and DISPLAY ------------------------------- The design of the phone just feels more 'expensive'. I mean that in a good way. It feels just higher quality than most of the devices in the same range . it has a metal band around the outside that just makes it feel 'premium' in your hand. It should also provide more protection for the device as well.The downside of glass, and apparently ceramic, is that they are spectacularly good at picking up fingerprints. Both sides of each phone were covered in smudges within a couple of minutes.Anyways, i don't care. The screen is incredible and the resolution or pixel density is better than competition(I mean in real life experience).This is the first OnePlus smartphone to include an AMOLED display, and it's an excellent addition even on the OnePlus X's smaller 5in screen. Colours appear vibrant and bold, with clean whites and deep blacks. The glass was fairly reflective, but a high default brightness helps deal with this common problem. CAMERA ------------- I think this phone in general takes more crisp pictures than some other 13 MP sensors. Sometimes more megapixels and the quality of the image sensor matter and it looks like OnePlus found a nice pairing for OnePlus X. Though the low light performance was not that great.(same as the camera specs says).Specifically, OnePlus claims that its phase-detection autofocus (PDAF) will let you capture images in high detail in less than 0.2 seconds. I didn't have a stopwatch to hand at the event to check the claim, but found the camera to be pretty nippy.The rear camera can also record 1080p video, but playback is stuttery and even small lights can create screen-filling beams of lens flare. It will suffice for casual filming.Even my mi4i did better with the video part. But overall the camera did make a good impression. Performance ---------------- The quad-core 2.3GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 was a top notch chip in 2014 when it appeared inside the Samsung Galaxy S5 and the LG G3. But it's been outpaced and overshadowed by the preposterously powerful Samsung and Apple processors powering the Galaxy S6 family and the iPhone 6S, but it's still more than fast enough on paper to stage a cut-price comeback, especially with a big, fat 3GB of RAM.But as claimed by Qualcomm, 801 SOC is still more powerful than the 615 one. which is found in moto x play.However, I didn't notice any serious performance issues. Indeed, operating the OnePlus X is buttery smooth. The gaming performance and experience is very loving.It will handle pretty much everything you throw at it,Any HD game or app. BATTERY LIFE --------------- Battery life is good, but not excellent. Can stream videos for about 8hours before it needs to be charged & survives a typical day with intermittent usage for ten to twelve hours.But if you use it just for basic stuff and keep the battery saver ON then it can give you almost 24hrs of use on just 10% of battery left. OnePlus argues that with fast-charging and with software optimizations, they can make up for some of it, but I know for sure that within a given platform, battery capacity is the main factor that counts. Fast-charging does work very well, unless you don't have access to an electric outlet, and a fast-charging battery pack. Anyways, i loved the the device in terms of battery life. Heating --------- No major heating as of my usage.It does get a litlle warm at sometimes but nevertheless its common in mobile devices. Aaahh..it doesn't end here.I will keep this review updated as i keep using it. Anyways.I hope you found my review helpful.
5|Worth Buying..... As mentioned everywhere, the Pros of the phone will cover the Cons. No product can be 100 % satisfactory to all customers . However, in case of one plus X, the Pros are more. According to me , OPX has only two negative things. 1) SD card / Sim2 - We will not be able to use dual sim + external storage at a time. How much space would a micro SD card take in a 5 inch phone. Come on.... Easily OPX could have accommodated additional space for an SD card so that we can use like any other dual phone. 2) OS - 90 % of the UI is stock android. This can become advantage for some and irritating for others. Advantage is that there are no forced third party applications as we have in samsung, micromax etc and all default applications are of google.inc. This can become disadvantage for people who like to have a custom interface where the person would like to customize icon position, create common folders etc.. That can be achieved only by installing additional launchers like CM, KK launcher etc.. For that also, some launchers promote advertisements in free versions and and club other apps. Even for call recording, you need to install an app from store and it will run in background. no default recording app. The music app, gallery, messenger etc... all are stock applications. Here are few tips for best performance- For battery - the first three recharge cycle should be complete. I.e, from 100 to 0( switch off) and then 0 to 100 in switch off mode. No over charging. After three cycles, recharging to be done only when phone battery is below 10 %. Some users have the habit of charging to 50 % , use it and charge unevenly. All these situations shall be avoided for best performance of battery. If you are a frequent traveller, it is always recommended to have a power bank with you and please do not recharge with outlets in train , bus etc. That will not be 230 V and fluctuations impact. Also, please avoid chargers which we get from market for less than 150 rs with 1A output or so. For RAM cleaning - There is no need to install third party software for tasks killing. When you clear all running apps by holding the key, the RAM is also cleared. You can check this in running apps. After closing apps, the RAM is also cleared. Check on Sync- Once you have logged into Google account, go to settings- accounts ' Google. If you click on the respective account, you can see that many sub ' items( close to 9 sub items) of Google are shown against sync with tick enabled( like drive, google plus). I suggest removing the sync against unwanted sub items. ( may be only for contacts, mail and few required stuff) If everything is enabled, the phone will eat up your data as well as battery. One by one will sync and repeat continuously Installation of Apps : I also read 1 star reviews before purchasing product.... I do agree that very very few ( 1 in 10000 or so) pieces might be defective in terms of display and all.. I read few comments about over heating... For over heating , management and installation of apps also play a role... For quicker installation, we might clone with our previous phone with apps like sharelink etc... you might be transferring files from android 4.3 or 4.4 to android 5.1... Just like how apps of windows xp was installed through copy to windows 7 during upgrade.. It is always recommended to install from same version. This could be possible reason for poor management of apps and CPU , which results in heating.... When we install from untrusted sites, there are chances of bug and that might result in heating. Even free launchers provide advertisement pop ups and possible source of bug.... Last -( Please note that the following option to be used , only if you have done before ) - Most of you would receive update of 2.1.2 after initial set up. Once update is complete, it is better to clear the cache using boot menu.( cache which is seen through storage options of settings and the cache which is at boot menu is different). The clearing of cache of installation files will improve the performance..
3|This review is specifically made to mention that the phone takes hell lot of time to get fully charged min 2 hrs, and battery drains early when compared to charging rate. The phone is good on performance but as everyone said the 'best deal in its price', its not so look is mind blowing, works smoothly but battery charge and drain ration is something i could not ignore So be informed. Thanks.
1|Waited in the queue for Invite. Received the invite yesterday and have placed the order. Received the product today and was excited to open and review the unit. And here comes the disappointment. The display of the phone was damaged. Not the thing which I was expecting from One plus. I have been using One plus One from past one year and did not had any issue. After seeing this damaged product I think One plus is planning to lose customers base in India. Hoping to get the replacement unit as soon as possible.
5|very good product, Awesome look, brilliant and innovative phone i recommend to buy this oneplus X. best performance smart phone
5|If u just need an android phone which can do everything a high end device can do.. Just buy this phone.. Awesome phone for such a price range. Gifted my fiancé and she loves it.. Thanks amazon for a faster delivery too
5|Best in the price range. Just have to manage a little on battery side because its small considering the usage. But 'battery saving' mode is there to boost up. Coming down to specs , 3gb ram is huge Processor is good enough to handle multi-tasking( at this price it is one of the best) Gaming will give a little disappointment cause of lagging issues. But all other applications will run smoothly. The best part of this mobile is the screen. It is it's selling point. Super amoled display with 441ppi is no joke at this price! You will definitely love it. It's a compact mobile like iPhone. Camera quality is good. It's very fast while taking pictures from both front and back( sometimes you will not even notice) Video quality however sucks. Since there is no stabilization mode. Otherwise it's good. Pictures are crisp. Light Sensors work real quick. Phone speakers at the bottom are just okay( at top most volume they will give up). Touch quality is equivalent to tgat of nexus4 (from my experience) There is LED notification. The mobile is super slippery. So take care of it. Do not drop it at all. No idiotic drop tests pls. Phone will get cracks and so will your heart. Yes, it is fagile( glass in front and back) Inside the box you will get no ear phones ( so buy one instead of complaining) But you will get one plastic made back cover(decent quality) + screengaurd on mobile will be there already.( there will be cover on the screengaurd , wisely remove it or else you might remove screengaurd too) Overall this phone is good. Worth buying. Ab toh sasta bhi Ho gaya hai ! I don't regret buying it.
3|As far as the built quality is concerned, it is awesome. It gives you a rich look, I mean, with this price segment, you can not get better than OnePlusX. Performance is superb, 3GB RAM, is enough to give you everything you want. However, lack of earphones is a major drawback. Another thing is, camera quality could've been much better. Software is OK. I was previously using Samsung Galaxy S3 (4GLTE) and had wonderful features which it lacks. Biggest drawback in the software is, there is no option for grouping contacts. If I want to send messages to a group, I have to select them one by one (may be I dont know). Plus, there is no option for putting photos in your desired folders. In my S3 I simply had to create a folder, select the photos and drag them into the folder. Also in Samsung phones, group option appears right on the top in the contacts. But, there are also good features, like gesture control: make circle on the screen to access to camera (which is pretty fast), make V on the screen to turn flash light on. Battery life is good, lasts for a day with heavy 3G usage. Gaming is fine. Conclusion: If you have a tight budget but want to be different from the crowd(avoiding those cheap plastic look of samsung and other phones) go for it. But, if you can spend some more bucks, can think of buying Note 4, Note 5.
4|Writing this after 1 Month of use. Should you Buy Oneplus X? Totally depends on Which thing matters the most for you in a phone or What do you expect from new phone. Details: 1. LOOKS: 9/10 Very Good Looking Phone, gives a premium feel. But hardly you'll carry it without back over which makes the phone Average looking. It catches Finger print both on Front & Back, on Cover also. 2. DISPLAY: 9/10 Awesome Display... Compared it with 4 other phone. It beats all in Display quality & Color reproduction. No Complaints here. 3. PERFORMANCE: 9/10 Again No Complaints. 3 GB RAM is more than enough for phone. No Lags experienced. Touch is very good too. 4. CAMERA: 6/10 Both the Cameras are Poor. May Look good on Phone for 1st Time. But when you zoom it, you will find No detailing in every Photo. No one expects DSLR Quality in a phone. But in ?17 K Price, OnePlus should have given a better Camera. Camera is Worst than that of Moto G3 (Both front & Rear). Don't know whether it is a Software problem or HHardware. No Optical Image Stabilisation, even a little Hand moment will ruin the pic. It is very very hard to click Good photos from this phone. 5. BATTERY: 7/10 It will last for a day with Average usage. Standby is Good, It uses very less battery when you are not using the phone. But Heavy users won't like this battery as it drains while calling, Gaming, Watching Videos, Browsing etc. 6. OXYGEN: 7/10 I liked it. Liked the Dark theme. Customisation is very less but they are Good. Still lots of Bugs in OS. Hoping OnePlus to resolve it through future updates. 7. Other Pros: Beautiful 8 Color Notification Light Good Quality Charger, looks Durable Charging is rreasonably Fast with 2A Charger No Unnecessary Apps Good Security Features Decent Back Cover in the Box Guaranteed Marshmallow Update 8. Other Cons: Seems Delicate Phone especially Sim tray Got to choose 1: Memory Card or 2nd Sim No Fingerprint sensor, NFC, Fast Charging Not so loud speaker OVERALL: 7/10 VERDICT: Not Recommended for Camera Lovers, People with Heavy & Rough Usage. Others may just go for it. Strongly Recommended for those who wants Good Looking Phone for Style Statements & those who wants some Change or refreshing experience from Android Phones. Other Advise: Go for Onyx Version, Champagne Phone will not look good.
5|Amazing phone.....great overall experience. Have been using since last 2 Months. I am a fan of One plus bought One and X series....Overall performance as a company is amazing.. Build quality of the products is excellent. Pros: - Looks very elegant, quality of back cover is also excellent - Speed of the phone is nice, although i have heard from some users having problem of hang but i haven't experienced even once in last 2 months. - Connectivity of the signals is very gud, comparing the other brands in which i wasn't not getting 3g connectivity, with One x I am enjoying airtel 4G seamlessly. - Camera quality is gud within its segment Cons: - Elegance look comes with a slippery outer finish, however company is providing cover with the phone which resolves the problem. - Lightning fast charger is not available as it was in one plus one. - Oxygen OS is not as gud as Cynogen , you cannot slide and view all the pictures in Oxygen OS. I have gone to the service center and they also acknowledged the problem. Overall: The best phone even in sub 20k category.
4|At this price range, the phone is awesome. Apart from all good tech spec, it has vibrant colors, screen touch is absolutely cool, looks are premium, super duper fast processor and slow motion video recording are few to add to it's goodies. There are few minor drawbacks as well. Screen icons will be always in sequential order and will not allow you to change as your preference. The contact list on first instance display in last name, first name sequence and later change to vice versa after any contact display. Another disappoint to prepaid connection users that it doesn't display call/rate summary at the call end which is some what important. Again, it don't have move forward button for photo display, you require to go back to folder to check on next picture/video which is quite annoying. You will also not get handsfree cable to feel it awesome audio. Oneplus require to work on these minor standard features matter to phone users, so one star less for all missing things. Apart from that, phone is absolute gem, if you are good to compromise on not available features.
3|Amazon Delivery was very fast..... :) Phone is very good in look wise, few details mentioned below but nothing great with the features. PROS : Good bright screen Excellent Camera (Front and Back) Light Weight You get phone back cover with the box and scratch screen already on phone. So the phone dont slip away. Good Charger Quality Good Battery Backup You can also have external OGT for data space. Doesnt get that heat while using or charging moderate heat is acceptable. CONS : No Headphone with the box Nothing great with the Oxygen OS, there is hardly any themes to customize. Worst is Either 2 micro sim or 1 sim with 1 Micro SD card so you have to decide if you want 2 sim than no SD card. This phone is like other phone with nothing great in speed. If the phone hangs you cant remove battery to reset as battery is inbuilt. Not worth spending 17k rather buy 9K phone with similar features There is a toggle button on the left for silent profile , which actually not required as it creates confusion while locking or unlocking the phone. Speakers are not that real loud Delicate to hold hope doesnt break down once dropped.
4|Build quality is premium and it is worth the penny you are spending. I got the white with gold champagne variant and it looks just awesome. No heating issues,perfect gaming experience,no software lags. Takes a little while to charge. Software customization options given is awesome. Display is just mindblowing decent,compact and curved edges blending to the metal frame. Front camrea does a awesome job both in natural,artificial and low light condition. Rear camera performs well in outside lighting condition but struggles in artificial and low light modes. Biggest addition is that it comes with no boltwares preinstalled,free ram is like 2.3GB out of the box and strorage is 11GB. OTG is supported. However the biggest let down is still the minor bugs in the UI at times u will feel like u cant even do something that is achiveable in a standard phone, no dedicated gallery or music app and i am not an enthusiast of google apps. Battery is just above average,phone lives of a 15hrs with moderate usage when fully charged. Now my little concern. I received a unit which doesn't dectect my sd card even after the latest oxygen update. In the file manager my SD card name is shown like random letters and symbols and instead of name shown as SD card like it does in my friend's OPX. I can see the files on SD card from file manager however it doesnt show up on the gallery. I cannot sync my contact from SD card evethough the VCF file is there ,it says vcf file not found. Did a hard reset on the device but still the same. Switched back to my galaxy note 3 with disappointment. Tried my SD card in my friend's OPX it has no issues. Wanted to get this beauty replaced for a new white variant but definitely not refund cuz i am in love with it.
5|Stylish armour on a deserving knight The looks dont matter is a phrase from yesterday This phone is a perfect budget phone and is superb both outside and inside The outside is seen by everyone Lets talk about the inside The oneplus x has 3gb ram, no lag, 16 gb rom and expandable storage With the latest oxygen os update the sd card is now being detected and cqn be used to store apps, songs, pictures and more The music quality of this phone is good and it almost matched the amount of volume emited by a phillips bluetooth speaker Only left speaker works but that itself booms a lot The proccesor is old and a 32 bit but works like anything giving a fluent user interface This phone can be used for gaming but it does get a little warm... Not hot during heavy gaming But it shouldnt be a problem if you use the silicon case provided with the handset which is pretty cool The phone is all in all a good one except the camera which takes shaky videos but decent photos As the camera doesnt matter to me i rate it 5 stars
4|Good phone for the price: Pros: Looks, sleek design, screen, no bloatware and good RAM optimization keep the phone breezy Cons: Not so impressed with the battery life should be atleast 3000mAh, no finger print sensor which are now becoming common in mid range, low light rear camera performance need improvement (f2.2 doesn't help much) but daylight photography is good, not good options for tempered glass and cases
4|This rating is given after a day of using one plus x. To begin with getting this product delivered the next day for ordering made my day.. Thank you amazon?.. Though do packing can b even more proper.. Pros- This s a phone u can't leave without costing r this price range and worth it.. From the looks, RAM, camera quality n one plus customised features.. And d silicone back case n screen guard along with d box is our life savior some this mobile is so thin n sleek n chances to drop down.. Cons - Gallery is not provided by one plus..so like third party gallery app like quick pic gallery will serve d purpose. Earphones doesn't come along with this box. Few features in camera like shutter captures can b added and improvised .. Or maybe I haven't explored yet .. If not please fix it.. Saving new contacts made some issues. Bt shouldn't b a problem . Will update soon after using this mobile fr a month :)
3|It's a good phone, but I'm still wondering is it worth the money? It does heat up if you use it while charging. Also, does not work butter-smooth as was said about it by some other users. It does get hang at times, with just 3-4 apps running. Started facing this problem within one week of using it. Camera is good enough, but definitely not the best. But these are the bad things about it, otherwise it's a pretty good phone. :)
5|Excellent performance, Snapdragon 801 does the job well, smooth UI, no stutter ample ram, multitasking is also lag free. It gave me an ANTUTU result of 40000 which is very good. No heating issues, in day to day, but, I dont play games. Excellent looks. Cons: no nfc and finger print scanner, navigation keys are not back lit. Detailed video review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XIcK1pZO9to
2|Not perfect as expected. The phone is getting heated up too quick and the OS is not great. I use a 1+1 and thought it will be the same as my other phone. This phone is low in its quality, built and the hardware is not great. Its major issue is, its getting heated up too quick. Will suggest we get a Samsung A5 at almost the same cost to get this phone!!! Disappointed with this product form 1+ company.
3|Guys if anyone needs then you can use below invite within 24 hrs IN23-2A36-BBA8-3EE3 I am planning to buy this phone later After it's SD CARD issue resolved
5|Awesome phone I was using iPhone 4s previously and was worried how 1+X would be compared. Slowly my apprehensions were dismissed after started using new mobile. It's worth buying this phone for 17k Very beautiful Performance wse satisfied Strong built and looking elegant Slim and weighs less in hand Thnx for the wonderful product so far
5|No phn below 20000 will make u feel so premium... And this is for others who wrote reviews about this.... Dont be stupid guys u cant get everything for 16999.... So stop whining.. Its a great package for 16999 and even it feels more premium than my sony xperia z3 compact.... With same specs....i use this as my secondary phone and trust me i use this thing more then my iphone 6s....
5|The Phone Is Amazing!! Got it a week back.. Works Flawlessly, Has an amazing camera! The only downside I found was the battery backup, which can be a bit disappointing for some. All in all, this is a beautiful phone for 17k.. So go for it if You're planning to.. And I've got an invite to share, so PM me if you want one, @shashwatagrahari@gmail.com.
5|Amazing super fast delivery from Amazon. Im very much happy with this product. Oneplus x is really good and its worth for paying 17K. If you are looking for a handy mobile with high configuration then go for it.
3|Well I was going to purchase this but then realized after reading a lot of reviews that the rear cam is not that good. People who want an 'OK' cam can go for this. BTW i purchased a 1+1 since the cam is pretty good compared with 1+x. I got an invite, if interested contact me at - r5j4c10@gmail.com FREE of cost lol, some wise a$$ people are wanting cash for it i see -__-
4|PHONE IS OKAY BUT CHOOSING BETWEEN DUAL SIM DATA USAGE CAN BE A PROBLEM. USING THE CAMERA IS A BIT COMPLEX. ZOOMING IS A BIT OF A DRAWBACK. SELFIE QUALITY IS GOOD. AND BIGGEST DRAWBACK IS THE FINGERPRINT PRONE FRONT AND BACK PANELS. YOU DONT GET AN EARPHONE BUT A MOBILE COVER THATS GOOD. THE IDEA OF GIVING 2 NANO SIMS AND A NANO AND A MICRO SD IS A BIT UNPROFESSIONAL
5|This is the best phone you can buy for ?17,000/-. Pros : Screen resolution, Built quality, Performance. Con : Screen strength. NOTE : Do not forget to order tempered glass screen protector witht the phone! I received the phone on 2nd Dec., 2015, broke the screen on 4th Dec., 2015. Don't know if it is funny or sad. I kept it on inclined surface, on the study table, approx 1.5 feet high. It slipped and fell on ground, exactly on its front, and it shattered. I think its expensive to replace the screen. The touch function is working normal, no problem in performing any function even after the screen has shattered. I was very excited to use this phone, and used for one day, snappy, fast, brilliant display, average battery life (nothing new in smartphone with LTE), feels premium when you hold it. Oxygen OS is the one of the best Android version available, be it modifying the accent color or the dark mode. Go for it without any doubt, It will not take more than three days to receive Invite, so don't be hesitant to buy this phone. I will try to fix the screen ASAP. BUY THIS PHONE!!!!
3|Ordered it on 9th November 10.30am and checked out using same day delivery and got it by evening 6.30pm at extra cost and their courier service is fine by the way. After getting in hands stated using it. Firstly it looks good and compact in hand. Easy to use. Charged using the given charger and it gets heated slightly. Then switched on and display is pretty cool. As it has high ppi. Rear camera is better and can take higher resolution images with good speed. Front camera having a beauty effect which has softy effect on images. Overall camera has softy images and details are not that much clear. As its not a DSLR. Videos and images are cool. While tried to do a call on IMO messenger and camera works differently like a 1000 rs korean handset image like. While on other applications it works as normal. After charged used it for a day and battery is the worst. It doesn't last like not more than 10hrs.As the same way I used my previous mobile it lasts more than 12 hrs having same 2500plus maH battery but has 5.5 inch display. But OP x has 5 inches only it should have lasted longer than that. Processor and RAM is speedy for fewer games. As i don't play high end games in mobiles. Finally it's ok to have it. But not worth it. For brand name sake paying an extra is ok. For this config nowadays we can get good handsets at same price. Over-priced i think.
5|One word review. Awesome! The device does what it is intended for. No lags, no hang ups. The device got warm initially when I tried to update the Oxygen OS version. Later, I've tried playing songs on bluetooth and had been browsing for quite some time over wifi and 3G. No heating noticed. Battery seems fine. The protective guard provided looks cheap but atleast keeps the rear glass intact. Camera quality is not overwhelmingly good but is decent. The shooting speed is great though. I am not a heavy gamer so haven't tested on that front but for daily usage I think this definitely is a good pick. I have been waiting for a good AMOLED screen phone ever since I last used S2 and this one definitely goes on par with S2. I have seen multiple reviews about it complaining regarding the older chipset used. But I think that was a wiser decision than giving the crappy newer chipsets which are heating up the devices like iron boxes. By all means, its a good phone. Go for it! My favorite features: 1. Size and weight. 2. 3GB RAM 3. AMOLED screen. Amazon's delivery was amazing. I got the mobile in 24 hours after placing the order. No, I didn't opt for one day delivery :)
3|Good Phone, Superb looks and feel in hand. Easy to handle with one hand. iPhone 6 can surely be replaced with this. But I feel its not upto the mark with heating issues and battery backup. I feel my 4s with 1470mAh batter gives better battery backup. Battery should have been very better. I have an invite expiring today, please ping me for invite on 9886118521
3|I had ordered one plus x on 1st Jan 2016 my order got delivered the next day through express shipping thanks to Amazon. Now about the phone: The phone is nice I was using moto x play earlier and I liked the battery of moto x better than this phone as it had 3630mah battery whereas one plus x only offers 2525 mah. Screen is nice speakers are above average and gaming performance is good! Had. Experienced bad call quality even in full coverage area. Connectivity is good LTE works really well. However the charging cable given by one plus x was not working as a result I am using Samsung cable to.charge this phone. One plus x should ensure that the charger goes through quality test. Overall the phone is very nice however, if you are looking for a screen with wide display and long battery life you might opt for one plus two.
4|OnePlus X free invite (See the picture). I got it today. So claim within 3 days. Invite Code : INE1-D772-BBCC-C4A7 Claim your invite at http://onepl.us/INE1-D772-BBCC-C4A7
3|After Oneplus and oneplus 2 I had sky high expectations from this one. I bought this as soon as I received an invitation. Initial impression : One of the best looking phone, but only in this segment but in any segment. Slim, trim no sharp edges makes this phone a piece of art. The back instantly reminded me of my old Nexus 4. This beautiful display comes with screen guard pre attached. Perfect, wait there is a free silicon back case too. Perfect! Pulled out the sim card, was hit by my first disappointment. It's either a single nano sim + micro SD card or two nano sim with no sd card. Not a big deal for me as I use only a single sim. My plans to upgrade to dual sim was dropped. Display : Anyways booted up the phone, was greeted with one plus logo and the gorgeous AMOLED screen. The blacks are deep and colours vibrant. Awesome. However if you look at Vector images you will notice the colours bleed. Another disappoint here. Having said that the 1080p screen is absolutely gorgeous. Performance : There is none, surprisingly games like subway surfer lagged and I noticed frame drops. Didn't bother playing other high end games. Other apps like whatsapp, Facebook etc loaded up in a snap. No problems there.. Call quality : Call quality was very clear. There were some call drops, but nothing to worry about that. Battery : Battery by far is its biggest weakness, this will not last you a day. As I was travelling and using data it died on me pretty soon. I had to use the whole capacity of my 10000mah powerbank to make it last the whole day. A pity. Camera : Camera was another disappointment, it heavily depends on the available lighting. Too much of it and the pictures will get over exposed, too less of it and the picture is noisy. TOOO noisy. It needs the perfect amount of light to pull the right picture. But when the light is just right it does take some great crisp photos. Don't even bother zooming wow taking a photo. The photos that came out where nothing to be proud of. The camera software is petty basic. It has no manual mode to set the iso or shutter speed. To my surprise the front facing camera did a great job. It takes some great selfies. Network : Both wifi and 4G worked great. No complaints there. Got upto 20 mbps speed with LTE. Operating system : Comes with Oxygen OS pre-installed. Oxygen OS is pretty much stock lollipop with Oneplus radio app. Yes it has a built in FM radio, but no ear phones were bundled with it. A 1500 Rs phones come with hands free ear phones these days. Anyways, it has other great built in features like double tap on screen to wake. Draw < or > to play previous or next track. Very handy gestures. Then I explored system settings. DISASTER SD card won't show up in system settings. You can't mount or eject SD card. Heck move app to SD card doesn't work either. After all this I decided this phone is not for me. I chose it to return the phone back to Amazon. Thanks to its great return policy. If you found this review helpful, please mark it as found helpful.
4|Pros: Display is very good Gesture actions when phone screen is off is very handy Sufficient RAM and not seen any crashes since a month of usage. Looks very stylish and back glossy finish. One plus provided back cover is very good Good camera quality Very smooth UI and experience Cons: Battery backup comes for a day's usage not too great. Proximity sensor is not great. Doesn't work properly when keep moving away from face when on call The data cable provided fits into power adapter in both directions unlike other USB ports which mite lead to inserting cable in wrong direction and not charging phone at all Amazon one day delivery service was too awesome to say the least
5|A brilliant, sleek, light, beautifully designed and crafted device. The screen resolution is way too good. The blacks are deep and the colours just pop out. The touchscreen is silky smooth and the transition between apps while multitasking is flawless without any lag. The sound quality and camera are pretty decent for the price point. I haven't experienced any heating of the device so far after putting it to moderate use. The device fits snugly in the hand and you get that premium feel.The only down side is the lack of adequate LTE bands to keep you connected to 4G at all areas. Overall this is a brilliant phone at this price point. But if you have the budget to shell out a little more, go for the oneplus2.
4|Oneplus x Bugs list...... First one I am facing recently is close all apps button from the recent apps section has disappeared... Second I am facing problem that is sometimes I am not able to increase or decrease brightness from the brightness bar.... Third is when I close phone app after calling someone then I get a black screen and the phone lags for sometime....This also occurs with WhatsApp... Fourth is sometimes there is a lag in the lock screen i.e. when I unlock it,it unlocks after 2-3 seconds... That's all main Bugs.... I also facing sometimes UI lags and also somewhat heating also occurs... Restarting phone makes it fine......
4|Nyone need invite Expiring in 5 hrs
1|I have received the phone all thanks to Amazon delivering it with in their promise period. One of the best delivery in online shopping field. But I m not happy with the phone as I m using the phone to contact or using WhatsApp with in few moment the phone get hot within 15 minutes of the ribbon ceremony of the phone it made me upset. Then I put the phone for charging as it was getting hot with in charging time. The clearity of camera is not good while making a video recording the re ording is not clear compare to Samsung. I was so happy that I have received the OnePlus X within time period but the phone had spoiled all my happiness.
4|Loving it.... A dream phone for this price range... No heating issues during normal use and playing videos or browsing or playing from otg.. Phone warms a bit while charging.. Battery backup is just fine...screen display is crisp.. Touch quality is awesome no lag till now whatsoever... Quick gesture for flash, cam, music r handy.. Camera pics were better compared to moto g3 n mi4i even in low light.. Auto focus works awesome with f/2.2..Multitasking is smooth even if u open dozens of apps at a time n it's fast.. Speaker n sound quality is good n loud enough.. Gallery app is missing although Google's photos is pre installed.. Would have liked if they had their own music player other than Google play music..
4|# OnePlus X Specs OnePlus X, at 5 inches is a little smaller than it's big brothers OnePlus 2 and OnePlus One. It has a Full HD AMOLED display which is always nice. Under the hood, OPX is powered by the same processor seen in OnePlus One - Snapdragon 801 which even though a little bit old, coupled with 3GB RAM on board, is still powerful enough to power up most of the heavy apps and games. Other features include a 13MP F2.2 Camera, 8MP Front Camera, 2525mAh battery, Micro Sdcard Support, Android 5.1.1 based Oxygen OS etc. There is no NFC or Fingerprint sensor on OnePlus X. # OnePlus X vs OnePlus One vs OnePlus Two If you are looking for the ultimate performance and features, do not hesitate, go grab a OnePlus Two. OnePlus One and OnePlus X have a lot in common - same processor, same GPU, same amount of RAM etc. However, OPO ( 3100mAh ) comes with a larger battery compared to OPX ( 2525mAh ). OnePlus One has 5.5 inches Full HD display, while OnePlus X has got a little smaller display, but features a vibrant AMOLED display. Not even OnePlus 2 has got an AMOLED display. In the Camera department, OPO doesnt have Fast Phase Detect Auto Focus seen on OPX, however has got a faster aperture Rear camera ( F2.0 ) compared to F2.2 Aperture 13MP Rear shooter on OnePlus X. Overall camera performance between the two, in real world scenarios wouldn't be that different. # Verdict If you already own a OnePlus One, then in terms of performance, this is not a great upgrade. In terms of looks and built quality, yes OnePlus X is a better buy over OnePlus One any day. OnePlus X has a Gorilla Glass front and back panel, which makes the phone slippery and a finger print magnet, so you need to be extra careful when handling the device. Also keep in mind that many other glass back panel phones get heated a lot during heavy usage. Gorilla Glass, contrary to popular belief is breakable when dropped. Get a flip cover or something that can protect it from drops. Micro sdcard slot is great, however it's a hybrid slot so you would miss on dual sim functionality when using the sdcard. Forget about all the specs and features, If you are looking for a Premium looking Phone, but don't wanna pay 30K - 40K, OnePlus X is the one for you and in terms of overall performance, it does not disappoint at all. # ~ Get a OnePlus X Invite: Give a missed call on +91 8010775577 ( you will get a confirmation SMS )~ #
4|As far as I know, they never said anything about water resistance, so I'm pretty sure it isn't water resistant. Not all Moto phones are water resistant either, however most Sony devices are water resistant (they are the leaders in that aspect). Speaking of Sony, the Xperia Z2/Z3 are still better options than the OnePlus X (the price of the OnePlus X is still amazing). They have NFC, are water and dust resistant, have great cameras and pack the same processor. Try looking for one of those second hand. You should find one for less than the OnePlus X and still in great shape. you should buy this if you aren't phone geek
3|Apparently all went well, right from ordering it to smooth & well tracked delivery process & finally when we got the handset. It was all ok & we were all excited until recently when we met up with an existing user & saw one of the notification functionalities working on her phone & was not working on our handset. When tried to avail the 30 days return policy, we had surpassed the timeline & now we are stuck with the faulty handset. This whole thing has just created a block with regards to on line shopping. Appreciate Amazon's efforts to give the consumer this platform to voice out concerns (If any).
5|Best phone in the market right now at this price Great experience using it. Everything is good about it. Having a Invite for OnePlus X expires in 48 hours. Anyone needing it? Email me at mayankmbhavsar@.com. I'll will arrange a COD for you with ur billing and shipping address. Giving it for free... Feel free to contact Someone else did it for me... Now its tym for me to help someone
1|I bought this phone on 25 Dec'15 and Its a worst phone I had ever bought. I bought this phone with lots of excitement but after using, I am hopeless. Since buy I am having lots of technical problem with the phone. Phone getting hanged in the mid of phone calls, software issues, network issues and charging problem is there. And now I am trying to replace the phone but the amazon policy shows, time limit over for the replacement or exchange. I don't have other option rather to give reviews publicly.
4|Bought the Champagne edition... I'm happy with it so far. LOOKS Oneplus X is the best-looking phone I have ever seen, no doubt. It looks amazing even when I put the transparent silicon cover (which came with the phone, by the way), but without the cover, the glass body is absolutely gorgeous. DISPLAY Another amazing feature. The AMOLED display is crisp and beautiful. Definitely better than the other IPS LCD devices out there. SOFTWARE & INTERFACE This is one area where the phone kind of under-performs. Many little bugs in the software - music playback on my bluetooth headset stops abruptly at times, screen wake & camera shortcuts don't always work, and the contacts app is very unstable. I really don't think Oxygen OS is a great choice. CAMERA Initially, I felt that the camera was incredible. The app is pretty minimalistic and easy to use, and beauty mode seems like a nice touch. However, compared to other cameras (Moto G3, Moto X Play, IPhone 5s), the pictures lacked detail, and low-light pics were really grainy. The front camera performed relatively better, but I must stress that you should not buy this phone if what you want is a great camera. It's a good camera, but not great, and definitely not comparable to the competition. SPEAKERS When I hold my phone, I tend to place my little finger on the underside of the phone, which blocks one of the speakers. I feel that these bottom-facing speakers are not ideally placed. Sound quality doesn't really matter to me, but there's another problem. The speakers are really not loud at all. PERFORMANCE Hasn't disappointed so far. Snapdragon 801 is a beast. So is the Adreno 330 GPU. If you want a high-performance phone under 20k, this is definitely the one for you. Much better than X Play's 615. I'm yet to try hardcore gaming, but so far, there have been absolutely no lags. BATTERY I'm not a very intensive user. I don't use mobile data much. Even so, I felt that the battery was lacking. This phone will last barely last you an entire day. Besides, there's no fast charging either, even though the processor supports it. Don't let your charger too far out of sight. Overall, I have loved the Oneplus X so far. I'm happy with the camera - it's good enough for what I need. I'm satisfied with the speakers, too - I've always been more of a headset guy. The reason I gave it 4 stars is that I'm quite disappointed in the software. Oneplus is gonna have to roll out some very comprehensive updates, because the bugs are a big turn-off. Even so, at the end of the day, this phone is absolutely amazing. Just hope that it doesn't break down; you don't have much service support for Oneplus devices in India.
5|I am happy with my purchase. I wanted a phone with a premium look and feel and the OPX does that for me. The battery life could be better as I spend so much time browsing but it is usually enough to last me through the day. Best thing is that when the phone is sleeping, it hardly uses any battery. It is fast, adorable and best of all fits comfortably in my hands and pocket. Not experienced any issues. I would definitely recommend this phone to anyone that needs to stand out from the crowd. Just hold on tight or get a flip cover as I did, very slippery.
3|Good product by oneplus QUALITY IS AWSOME Pros, 1 super build quality 2 performance is good 3 light weight inspite of glass on front and back 4 superb size easy to handle Cons 1 average battery life with 2sims usage needs to be charged at day end 2 camera is poor in low light conditions 3 could be better if a dedicated port is given for memory card
4|I have been using this phone for over a month now. I am very choosy with phones and sell them off quickly if I dont like them. The reason I was able to keep the 1+X is because it feels good in hand, battery life is good for the things I do. And there is no other phone that can give me these 2 parameters that are most important to me - "Good handfeel" and "Good Battery Life". Now, the bad parts - the processor is really old, it will lag on most games (I felt stuttering on games like guns and glory), - there is no fast charging, cheapest of phones come with this option and it is no excuse for a phone that sells for 17K to come without it. - Audio performance is sub par. My S4 sounds better than the 1+X with bose earphone. - No gorilla glass on the back-side. - Camera performance is seriously iffy. If this phone was available for around 12-13K, it would have been a very good buy with the value we know 1+ can provide. But with 17K, it is expensive phone for what it provides and the obvious compromises that come with it. I am keeping this phone because I like the handfeel and the battery life. And no other phone is able to provide me anything similar for these 2 attributes around this price range.
5|I got my ONEPLUS X 5 days back ( Thanks to Amazon for the fastest delivery in Diwali week ) . following sections , I will give my feedback about the device . Start with the design and looks ---------------------------------------------------------- ONEPLUS X is a beautiful device compared to its siblings, both sides having glass and an aluminum frame ( with elegant stripes engraved) holding it together . its having a premium look and feel in your hand . The back glass is a fingerprint magnet , you need to wipe it often to keep its shining. Also both front and back is having a very polished glass and you feel it slippery - (especially for those people having a habit of holding the phone using shoulder as a grip with ear , and using their hands for other tasks ) . the ONEPLUS X box contains a silicon back cover , though it is killing the looks of the phone , it will help to get more grip on the device also will protect the back glass from scratch. ( back glass is made of oynx , and I am not sure it is scratch proof or not) . I wish Oneplus will give more good covers in India, which will enhance its look rather than killing. Both loud speaker are on the bottom side of the phone and the audio quality is very good . ---------------------------------------------- Now comes the display ----------------------------------------------- The AMOLED display is very bright ( I am using just 25% of its brightness ) - thanks to the dark theme of oxygen OS , the ICONS looks painted on the screen . Excellent Sunlight visibility - better than many flagship phones. Many of my friends asked about the phone just by seeing its display while I am on the lift - surely it catches the attention. The phone is having an ambient display and it is very useful, it will flash the alerts and messages on the locked screen without touching it , very useful and less power consuming. ------------------------------------------------- The software and Oxygen OS. -------------------------------------------------- The phone uses oxygen OS and you will get the stock android experience. Oxygen OS is a very light wrapper and gives you some customization options which is cool . But if you migrated to this phone from Samsung/HTC/Sony etc etc , you feel little uncomfortable in software features . This is the first time I am experiencing a stock android device ( or nearly stock) . The phone will support micro SD card ( if you are not using dual SIM) , but as of now I am not able to use its convenience and functionality , because the apps are not moving into SD card , its showing a message that SD card doesn’t have space, though my card is almost 90% free. Default storage of my Camera is still the internal memory , not able to point it to SD card . The file manager application which is coming along with the phone is not detecting the SD card , I installed a third party file manager (ZenUI by ASUS Computer Inc) which can detect the SD card as well as transfer of files between memory locations. The phone will support external USB storage - here also the stock file manager will not detect the USB , only ZenUI . Overall the oxygen OS needs improvement to handle the SD card and USB better. -------------------------------------- Camera --------------------------------------------- Camera is very good and pictures are very sharp . low light performance is also good ( attached couple of camera samples) , videos both normal and slow motion is also very good. For me the cellphone camera is more of a documentary purpose than a main camera ( I have a DSLR for that ) . I am pretty much satisfied about the camera performance and functions. The quality of photos are more than enough for social media usage, I need to take couple of hardcopy prints to assess the quality more. ----------------------- Battery ---------------------------- The battery will give you one full working day , here I want to say one thing , the initial couple of days after buying a new phone , the amount of time we are playing with the phone and its functions will be high , and naturally battery will drain more . I will give you some statistics. the night standby with cellular data ON - 8 – 8.5 hours ( means you will get all your mails and whatsapp messages - I am not using facebook in my phone ) will consume 20- 22 % of power . if you do a full charge at 10PM and next day morning 7 AM your phone will have 78 - 80% charge remains . The supplied charger is very good and it will take 1 hour 52 minutes to fully charge the phone . ------------------------------- Overall comment ------------------------------- Overall this is a very good phone and will give you a premium feeling , the latest industry gimmicks and functions are not available in this phone ( finger print sensor / barometer / heartbeat etc ) and the processor is 32bit not 64 . Charging port is micro USB and not type C. The supplied charging cum data cable looks good , but when I connected that to my PC for data transfer, PC was not detecting the phone . Then used a normal micro USB to USB cable ( of another phone ) , then my PC detects the Oneplus and installed its drivers . I am not sure why the Oneplus supplied cable is not functioning in data transfer. I am not a gamer and not used the phone for assessing the game performance. But all other applications are working smooth and no lag in any action. Always having around 1.7 – 1.8 GB of free RAM, which is good. ( total 3 GB RAM) the inbuilt storage is 16 GB and 11.5 GB is usable after system software. I was using a Samsung S3 last 3.5 years and planned to change in this Diwali . I was more inclined to android ( I have an iPad air , and experiencing apple there ) , since my Job requires android platform to test applications (we are developing many applications to our internal employees in android platform). Since I brought the S3 the very next day of its launch in India way back 2012 , I decided to buy another flagship this time . one of the criteria was a device with small screen and should be able to comfortably fit into my shirt pocket ( just like S3 ) . after lot of consideration finally narrowed to Samsung S6 Edge - which is small , light and having a great look , especially the gold one. While I was on the shop , I got the invite mail from ONEPLUS X !!!! , suddenly my mind changed . and ordered then and there thru amazon . Initially I thought , just try the device and if it is bad , I can return the same within a couple of days and go back to my earlier choice (S6 edge) . But after using it for couple of days , I started thinking , what I am going to get in a flagship device , and do I need all those extra features ? , answer was NO . and this is 30K less than my intended purchase !!!. This is my second oneplus device , I already have Oneplus One ( which my son is using ) . If you are looking for a practical device and have a habit of changing your phone every 24 – 36 months , this is the perfect device . premium look and highly affordable price .
3|UPDATE: Finally i returned the phone on 16th nov .its not worth the excitement..BUT I AM HERE FOR ONE THING ,TO THANK AMAZON TEAM... ITS THE BEST.AND THE ONLY BEST....I requested return on 16th Nov 3am, Amazon picked it up at 9.30am, I got refund in my account by 4pm.so the whole process is over in 12hours ,what more can we expect from amazon ....thanks again for giving good service to customers... CONFUSED....CAREFULLY READ BEFORE U BUY IT....Why so? here is the answer...startin from one plus one i really dont had interest on one plus brand and hated their invite system...basically i love pure android experience , i owned nexus 5 and now using galaxy alpha.when i saw the oneplus x i started to love it because its pure android(nearly) and amoled and decided to buy it but invite?, i registered 2 days befor launch and came to know it ll be a long wait and finally i purchased oneplus x (purchased invite)....About amazon ,i received within 24hrs in neat condition(on 9th nov)...coming to handset its well build good lookin phone...i turned on the phone i received an update of oxygen 2.1.2 and i updated it...with in an hour i came across lots of bugs(listed below) and i searched for it and i came to know there are so many people with same issue.when i read reviews there is not much information about bugs( common bugs).but i want to share it with u its left to you whether its minor bugs for u and can wait till opo people recognise it and solve it in next ota(majority of bugs, i think they will not care for all bugs).OR wait for some time until stable oxygen os is released( i didnt came across with hardware issues as of now).really i feel like using unofficial rom like this not working, thats not working ,and wait for next release...CAREFULLY CHOOSE IT .... 1.USSD issue with many sims(mainly airtel) u will be unable to check ur offers from ur operator etc. 2.in fm app channels are not saving and each time u need to manually tune into desired channel. 3.SD card issue , u cant move apps to it and its not shown under storage settings....but i can access the contents of it in file manager.(but some people are reporting other sd card errors) 4.in contacts the contacts are showing first name and second name in proper order but when u open the dialler and check contacts its showing last name first and first name last every time (this i find out after i heard it on opo forums) but its there... 5.u cant select storage for camera photos and videos...its automatically stored on phone storage. 6.there is frame drops while playin games (not just for high graphic games) check this video...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYpgBqBBjI4#t=275 7.there is some frame drops and lags in ui... ('X'PLORE FOR MORE ISSUES) there are many more but i faced these ,all these are software related and can be solve but who,how and when...i think we are buying an officially released phone not a testing phone...like collect issues ,join the forum, report the issues, find for solution...
5|Awesome phone, Grand looks, very sleek and stylish, high performance and fast, fast browsing, decent battery life, comes with case and scratch guard, good front, and back camera,good os(oxygen and Android) , good for gaming too, fits in hand nicely. Check out the pics
5|To those who wanna buy it :- It's an awesome phone... I am using it right now. Killer Specs you all know, i don't need to mention it. To Other Genuine Verified Purchasers like me:- Guys,suggest me cool accessories for the phone and from where to get them. EDIT:- Guys when i wanted to buy OPX, i was struggling to get invite, now when i have got it wanna help to genuine people who want this beauty, For OPX and OP2 please contact me, stifler4eva@gmail.com, i will give at free of cost.
2|Hi Everyone, Please read this review before you consider buying the Oneplus X. The biggest issue many users are facing including me is the dual SIM bug in the Oxygen OS 2.1.3. Let me explain in detail, I am a dual sim user and was using Moto G2 previously which had dual sim slots & a Micro SD slot (Not complaining about the Oneplus X's hybrid sim slot). Since Oneplus X had ample internal memory (11 GB for users), I inserted two nano SIMs and started testing the call quality, At first when I made a call from SIM2, the carrier displayed was of SIM1, I thought I was confused between my carriers and went and checked the SIM 1 & SIM 2 carriers. Then as I began calling again from SIM2, I noticed that the calls go from SIM1 by default even when you select SIM2. This was a major setback for me. I started searching if I was the only one facing this problem, I found that this was a major issue across Oneplus 2 & Oneplus X users. Even the Oneplus India Customer support acknowledged this issue and asked me to wait for an OTA Fix!!!(Kudos Oneplus Team for asking the customer to wait rather than replacing the one day new mobile. What an awesome Support team u guys have.). When I raised it on twitter I received similar answers asking to do a factory reset which I did and the problem still persists. Another bug is that, the call history in the dialer does not show the names of the recently called even if the contact number is saved in google account. I had to use a third party dialer (Truedialer) to overcome the bug. Even though this mobile is loaded with awesome specs and the performance for the two days that I used was fantastic, the Oneplus team couldn't even get the basics right for their so called Mobiles including their Flagships (OP2). I switched back to my old Moto G2 and it was a bliss to use. Team Oneplus: NEVER SETTLE huh!! Seriously think of changing your tagline to something more believable like "CHALE THO CHAAND TAK NAHI THO SHAAM TAK"
5|I bought this product as a side phone because it looked so freaking good and was cheap. Already use a 6S plus.. I used it for 2 days and sold off my 6S plus .. It look like garbage in front of this wonderful phone. My God, what a beautiful and powerful phone !!! I am loving every second with it.. Go For IT or regret not buying this all your life!! @Amazon - I love you guys.. What super fast delivery and the quality of packaging. keep up the good work in India
3|Pros: 1. Awesome look and Feel. 2. Amazing photo quality 3. Performance wise mind blowing. Cons: 1. SD card problem,not able to configure apps on SD card. 2. Heating like everything. Within 10-15 minutes of internet usage (4G) heated like a hot iron, even you can iron your handkerchief. Only due to heating issue I had returned this phone. If heating issue will be resolved by the Oneplus team then "No one can beat this phone" in any aspect.
1|No control over flash and phone lags in light weight games
4|will update the review after some time. Till then, use my extra invite for OPX. PFB the link. http://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B016UPKCGU?inviteCode=IN5C-F2AB-BA1F-E020&inviteCodeFromSignIn=true&path=%2Fgp%2Fproduct%2FB016UPKCGU&redirect=true&useRedirectOnSuccess=1 let me know if anyone needs an invite for OPT as well.
4|Happy with this phone..so far! was a gift to my wife. Not used much though! I have few invites to share! If anyone needs one, write to me at: sandeepka@hotmail.com
4|hello frnds First impression is appearance of phone is awesome. 2.display is too good in sunlight 3.camera quality is nice.but camera additional features is less. 4.CPU performance is also good & any not lagging 5.finally battery is little bit disappointed. It is not for game lovers.becoz gaming time only for 4 hrs not more Internet usage is for 8 hrs Moral: get apple in low budget
4|Before:-Eagerly waiting for the invite....want to earn it by comapny's invite....patience is what i am doing on verge....dont want to buy invites... After:-happy to have one plus x... very fabulous and mind wobbling feel to touch the phone..time-lapse and slow motion are features which makes the phone odd from other smartphones....lucky to be a part of One plus family after long 4 years with xperia...:p
3|Overall the experience is good except the weight of the product. Didn't expect the weight of the product this much. It feels huge in the hand. If the Finger print detector is added, this product could have been standing beside top brands. Value for money for the design and specs, but Lenovo K4 Note is the best choice than this product now. The finish and look of this product looks grandeur in hand.
1|My Phone charger is broken within 10 days, I tried to reach the service center, but no response from them. I desperately need assistance on that.
1|Really dissappointed ! Bought it with too much expectations! Its just been 25 days since I got this phone and it is already hanging, especially between calls , some times touch is not responding , lot of network issues , all of a sudden it will show sim card not detected! didnt expect this from one plus! Not sure now what to do since I cant return it with amazon as well ! STUCK ! Update 26th jan 2016: phone slipped from hand and fell on flat ground -display spoilt- with the silicone cover and tempered glass screen guard! Shows how cheap the phone is. If it cant even withstand a slight fall ! Disappointed!
5|A VERY AWESOME PHONE, WITH WORTH FEATURES. ALTHOUGH SOME DRAWBACKS ARE THERE BUT SAME CAN BE OVER RULED KEEPING ITS WORTHINESS. GREAT LOOK, GOOD FEATURES. CAMERA LOOKS GOOD IN TERMS OF SHUTTER SPEED AND FOCAL. PROCESSOR IS NOT BAD. ALMOST CAN SAY MATCH OF I PHONE 5S IN TERMS OF LOOK. THANKS TO AMAZON FOR FULFILLING DELIVERY BEFORE COMMITTED DATE AND TIME .
2|At first I was very excited about the product looking at the reviews. Waited long for the invite. And when I received it, it came with a company fit screen guard and also a case. This was a feel good factor. But since I started using I came up with a couple of problems. 1. The ussd auto push message after every call showing the charges doesn't come up. I started looking around for a solution. In the onpluse one forum, there is a very long thread with experts taged with this issue. And there is no solution. I changed my sim card. Spoke to the network provider. Updated the OS. Did the factory reset. Nothing worked. 2. There is a lag when you want to look at and slide down the tool bar. The built and finish of the phone is very well done. But you don't want to be the one facing software issues. So honestly. Not worth the invite and wait. Thanks to amazon and their expert professional service, I am returning the product.
4|Very fast Delivery by Amazon....within 1 day...Great. Considering the product, most of the features are good. Used almost 20 days and found mobile is getting heat quickly...using the pouch given along with this product makes the mobile dull look. Rest all functionality and appearance of the mobile is great! Need to wait for few more months to check its performance!
4|I have been using this phone for about two months now. It is one of the best looking phones on the market right now, no doubt about that. Pros: Looks great Amazing performance even though the processor is a 1 year old model. AMOLED screen is absolutely amazing. Comes with a silicon back cover in the box and a pre-applied screen protector.
5|After 1 month usage i must say the phone have never let me down. Although i have found some bugs and cons i must say..after all you cant expect everything from any phone..:p. Pros 1)Awesome display- You will fall in love with it as soon as you hand the device. 2)Ram- Enough ram for daily apps and games 3)Processor- Quad core processor takes care of device freezing and smoothens in app experience(liquid scrolling in Facebook,Chrome etc) Cons 4)Build- Classic design by oneplus folks.;) 5)Camera- I managed to shoot some excellent snaps in good lighting conditions(13 MP shooter is not so bad after all) 6)MemoryCard- This is something which most of the android devices envy on. Cons This is all that i found so far 1)Battery- Not meant for hardcore gamers though i could easily get through 24 hrs with average usage(Music,Internet(Wifi and Data)) 2)Old Graphics Processor- A good amount of frames are dropped while playing Asphalt even in low graphics mode. 3)Camera- Gives poor quality in low lighting conditions These issues doesn't really matter when comes to normal usage. I would recommend this for anyone who is looking for a average budget phone which can do much more.
5|I will say that this is one of the best Android phones I used till date (i sifted through 15+ different phones in the last 3 years). I currently use a Nexus 6P and at home use a Nexus 6 and few other phones. This phone is highlighted more on the price effectiveness which yes is definitely a serious advantage, but NOT the main one. Here is why an average/above average Android smart phone user should consider this device - 1. 5" screen definitely is the best size for a smart phone - while I love my 6P, I see myself gravitating more towards using the X for my daily requirements 2. Dual SIM and expandable storage - 95% of the high end flagships and second tier phones DO NOT offer this (exception of a few moto's) 3. Screen resolution - keeps wanting you to look at the phone again and again for no reason ;). It is partly the shock effect that a sub 17K phone can offer such screen resolution 4. Overall build - absolute premium! Combination of the best aesthetic features of Xperia and iPhone 5. Camera - not to the high standards as other departments of this phone. But definitely great for a regular Instagram, FB up-loader! I believe 90% of the population uses phone cameras solely for this purpose - I rarely came across someone who wants to print a poster out of the phone pics he/she clicked. I can see myself using this for a couple of years at least until another manufacturer hits the same size spot with this kinda premium! Very impressed with the One plus 'X'! Thanks
4|Yeah i got one my gray black One plus X device 10 days back, and here is detailed review about this device I Never experienced such a phone before, actually iam not a tech geek the below review is not biased and true to my knowledge. Outstanding things on this phone : 1. First of all the design wise at first glance it resembles same to i phone 4s/5s, but it carry's its own design language and i mean more than iPhone. Thanks for such a master crafted design by One plus. 2. For the first time One plus has came up with an AMOLED display like all the blacks are deeper because the individual pixels will shut off when the supported wallpapers or videos will played, this is an full HD 1080p display with 441 dpi which translates to great color contrasts like sharp clear and crisp you can't be able to see the pixels even if you put your eyes on close to the screen and the display has great viewing angles even if you put it in under direct sunlight you can see the screen like the same we can found in sAMOLEDs in Samsung. Personally i love to watch 1080p videos in this device seamlessly without any hiccups. 3. Performance wise i didn't fully tested this device, but to my experience the on boarded Snapdragon 801 32 bit 2 GHz processor with 3 GB ram is still can outperform day to day task's easily without any glitches. The most exciting thing here i noticed that while iam browsing internet through WiFi i never felt any heat and performance hinders in this phone you can easily switch to apps without any lags. This phone is exceptional for heavy gaming. 4. Regarding Battery backup it gives a good mileage and a smile on your face, i use this phone for mostly making calls, net browsing, watching videos... still i can able to get more than a day no need to run for charger. And the phone will charge 0 to 100 in 2 hrs that quite OK. 5. One plus has switched to Oxygen OS on top of Android 5.1 i can able to customize this phone according to my preferences mostly i like changing background color mode, font ascent, swapping to on screen or capacitive touch buttons, assigning app permissions, screen gestures for double tap to wake up, flashlight, camera, proximity notifications wake up without touching physical buttons and what not. 6. The best and must needed feature is alert slider without waking up screen i can prioritize the notifications to my preferences accordingly. But everything is not perfect 1. Biggest drawback for this phone is google camera app , even after having such an feature loaded sensors the picture quality is par low in all conditions is not up to the mark for this price range for both front and rear cameras, Camera itself is below par while comparing to other devices in the same department , seriously need a necessary update on this to address this issue. . 2. Another drawback audio we cannot play the music by customizing equalizers because there is no customized music app for this device except the same again google music app like with camera, and it could have been a better sound output quality through in earphones and handset also. 3. The battery will drain fast compare to when in usage, while overnight within the spawn of 8 hrs in standby 2g mode with signal reception it came down from 81 % to 72 % that to without any data on, background running apps. 4. This is a slippery phone, even if you can put it on flat surface it can move easily like carom board striker, thanks to one plus for providing back cover for this. 5. The omission of fingerprint sensor and will make you shock for this price range. Hope it will be upgraded in near future'. 6. And yes for god sake pls remove the infamous invite system. This thing will put away the prospective buyers, and this is against the USP. I hope the above drawbacks will be rectified by One plus soon. I will recommend this phone for moderate users not for heavy gamer's and media geeks. But not least this is the best phone in mid range department comparing in specs wise for this price range, but looks wise it will make you proud while carrying in public it surely attracts lots of eyeballs
4|One of the best choices available in market for android. Pros 1. 3GB memory+ 16 GB Internal memory (with a provision to expand to 128 GB) 2. Good quality cameras (13 GB primary+ 8 GB front). and photo editing functionality (limited features..) 3.Good processing speed+ functionalities like face recognition etc. 4. Good Keyboard (Swift key) along with dictionary/ adviser. 5. Battery charging is fast (provided you use the OneX charger) and charge lasts more (I wont say this is very good, but comparatively better than other phones that I used) Cons 1. Slight issues in fetching the network during roaming (a common issue for all smart phones). But nothing alarming :) 2. Sometimes slight heating issues (not so serious like other mobiles...) 3.Accessories/ Add-ons are very expensive(ex: Temper screen, flip cases, head phones etc,). But its always better to go for genuine spares. 4.No headphones etc. provided with the phone. This is surely a draw back (in fact One plus is selling bullet head phones at Rs 900). 5. As I understood, the cost of spares is bit high (in case you want to go for a replacement at any point of time) Over all I'm very much satisfied with my purchase :)
4|Delivery experience was great as usual. 4 Stars because I experience some lags in the UI while pulling down notification bar sometimes. Sure it can be fixed with an OTA. Device: Solid Build, but slippery to hold. I got myself a spigen case (a little expensive but worth it) and it works great with the OP X. Have not experienced any overheating issues, but then again i do not play any games or run graphics intensive applications. Battery: Have been using device for last 3-4 days. It easily lasts a full working day (always connected to wifi or data). I have 50-70% by the time i get back home. It should last 13-15 hours with moderate to heavy usage at home. Charge time is 1.5-2 hours (VERY surprised and impressed by this) - the charging time is great. Camera: Not too great, not bad either. Decent for the price point. I haven't found a way to get notifications about the amount of data i have left whenever i switch data off. Thats my only real complaint. Good device, worth the money.
4|I have been using this for a week. Performance is not an issue here, you get more than you paid in this respect. But the device has some flaws, mostly its the software what I felt. Pros: 1. Performance is great. Its fluid and good for casual gaming. 2. Display is good with high ppi. Its amoled guys maybe not the best if compared with samsung models which costs at least double. 3. Camera is decent. With some tweaks and third party apps you can click good pics. Ya its not DSLR i domt expect wonders out of it. 4. Design ++... It can beat an iphone 5. Call quality is good. Cons: 1. Battery not that great. Yes it can pull through entire day with moderate usage but on a heavy day you may have to plan for a boost. 2. Oxygen OS is buggy in some areas. Managing storages is a mess. SD card and OTG unmount may not work properly. Bit its livable. Waiting for the fix. 3. Warms up a bit. Its not heating abnormally, but yes its not cool device. Yes games and even heavy processing like panaroma warms up the device. But it cools fast too. Maybe its the material glass and metal which makes the heat notable. 4. Design is great but come to reality we use phones anywhere, in rough conditions also. And glass front and back is not ideal for that. You have to put on a cover which hides the beauty. Better get oneplus flip cover which is a great addition to the device instead of saving 300 with a ordinary one. Would be updating this space with further experience. Hope it goes well..... :)
3|My vote to this device for the surprisingly beautiful design, build quality, there is no lag either when you use it for day to day multitasking, screen quality is very good, so is the sound and in call standard, but unfortunately the phone is having 2 major issues: 1. Gaming performance is just less than average. even though I have played only 1 game in this device but my gaming experience is very bad. I installed CarX drifting which is are having major lags even on lowest graphic setting. My previous device, Grand 2 and Lumia 730 were running the game smoothly in high graphics setting also. 2. Battery backup is just average too. If you are using this phone as a primary device and get around 20 short and mid duration calls during the day and also quiet naturally you use it for social networking then you have to charge it again by 7 pm, which is quiet annoying as by that time every body is on their way back to home from ofc and you may have to travel for an hour or so with about 5-6% charge left or may be without even that too!!. So OnePlus if you are getting this please give us an update for the battery optimization asap.
4|It has been 15 days since I brought oneplus x, Firstly the delivery was on time and the phone was well packed. I received a cover, adapter, USB wire and a screen protector along with the device, however the screen protector which came on the screen of the device came off within first 10 minutes of usage ( I had to order an other one from amazon). The screen feels absolutely vibrant and great with 1080p 441ppi pixel density, however it has a 5 inches display which feels a bit small if you have used a 5.5 inches display phone or try to compare it with your friends 5.5 inches phone. Not a huge problem though. The design is elegant inspired from a iPhone design with a oneplus twist to it. Coming to the performance I am impressed with its 3gb ram and 2.5ghz processor. No problems with the performance except it gets a pretty hot behind the camera with some intense gaming. It comes with a stable battery and stays alive for a day with normal use (comparing it with my nexus 5 battery has been great) Lastly, the one thing that does not get along with the phone is its camera, the camera feels good in day light but not impressive in low light. However you got to compromise with a few thing when you get a whole lot of great features, design and performance.
3|Pros: This is no doubt the best phone available for the cost with so many good features and pros. I love the build quality, it feels like a premium phone when held in hand, the screen & large viewing angles are beautiful, videos come to life on this screen. Note: If you use the phone for basic purpose like calling, sms, whatsapp facebooking etc then you would love this phone & such users should not read the review below. This phone will take care of most of your needs, but i have listed some cons here for heavy users. I would recommend to spend a little more and explore other options too. Cons: Performance: Not that great. I thought having 3gb RAM meant it will take care of most of the things. I am a heavy gamer and have installed NOVA 3, Clash of Kings and Asphalt 8. Until i installed any game the operation of this device was very smooth. Never experienced any lag. However later it started lagging a lot, face book crashes every single time i play a video on it. I thought its the APP issue but the same version works fine on other devices. The phone does not unlock instantly every single time either. One more drawback, in current Osx you do not get the call summary and i am hoping the next update will fix this issue. Battery: Gives me 12 hours with heavy gaming and social media apps & full day WIFI running. OS: Average, its sad that such a beautiful phone has been launched during the Android 5.1 era which is the worst ever android to be released till date. I wish this OS gave the stability of Kit kat but alas, the problems of apps crashing and phone not responding at times continue. Camera: The rear camera on MotoX play is much better compared to One plus X. Still it captures very good pics in day light. Accessories: This phone does not come with head sets. Verdict: I hate it but i love it too. I just hope this phone doesn't crash down one day and lasts for atleast 1 year (Previously owned Moto G just started rebooting continuously after upgrading to Android Lollipop for no reason & i ended up buying this phone).
5|Build: The build for the phone feels solid, Glass front and back, Attracts a LOT of fingerprint. Luckily there is a Silicon Case provided in the box. I would not use the Phone without a protective case. Looks: 10/10, Stunning looks, fashionable for sure. Performance: The phone is smooth and fluid, Does heat up on the top left corner when gaming for 30+ Mins, Dual Sim works fine, yet to test it with a microSD Card. The screen being AMOLED is a BIG ADVANTAGE. It renders neat blacks and bright colors, the best screen by OnePlus as of now. Not much to say at this point about performance, will update the review in a few days. Things to Note: 1. The phone has a pre installed screen guard, take care while removing the front screen cover when out of box, chances are, you will pull the screen guard apart too. 2. Silicone Case is provided in the box. Good move, because there are no other cases available as on date. Thinks if one plus has more features like... 1.Fingerprint scanner 2. Battery 3000 mah 3.NFC After that this phone is too good. Conclusion Best phone in this range. No heating problem. Medium fast charging (in other review everyone is saying that slow charging but in my openion this phone has fast charging in comparison to any other phone in this range. Thnku for reading....
3|Update on 13 January 2016 I ordered OnePlus X again. I returned the previous OnePlus X since the phone is getting heat. But I miss the phone, the stylish and the performance. I searched so many phone on 17k budget but none satisfied me. So I ordered it again and am using it. Am satisfied :) Note: this phone has no Screen guard out of the box but previous phone has. I don't know why this has no Screen guard since neither gorilla glass 3 keeps it promises (scratches happens no matter what) nor the 3rd party screen guard has quality. ++++++++++++++++++++++++ Its been 4days since i bought this phone. I was so happy that i got this phone. OxygenOS is awesome. Phone quality and designs are also good. Then I started feeling that my phone is getting heat even while in normal use like WhatsApp and few other apps. If I play some game like "minions paradise" the phone gets unbearable heat. I was so scared that I got fault in my phone. I saw some post in forums that ppl do have thr phn getting heat up. Today I returned my phone to Amazon. I am expecting a replace or cash back. I am giving this 3stars just for the design quality and the feature full OS and the dark theme for amoled display which I loved. The next is "slippery" the phone is hell slippery. U cannot use it without a back cover. I have a habit of using phone without screen guard and back cover. Pros * display is awesome * OxygenOS is amazing with lots of features * Stylish and quality design * perfect 5" size which fits in hands Cons : * poor battery backup. Hardly last for few hours of my frequent usage * phone gets heat even in normal use and burning like lava when u play games * back is so Slippery. You cannot put ur phone on glass table or wood. * poor average camera though its 12MP * No headphone with the box (which is OK) * 16GB is not enough at all at least 32gb should b given for this price range Check my phone photo which I have attached.
5|I have been using this phone for 10 days and it has been a phenomenal experience. The best thing about this phone is its design and display. The amoled display is simply outstanding....The blacks are deep and the colors are warm and tempting !!! Believe me...you would just want to stare its display for the whole day !!! Battery life is fairly good, it easily lasts a whole day if I don't play games. Games drain the battery a little faster. The gaming performance is great too. The camera app is really quick and the shutter speed of the rear camera is really fast. The rear camera is able to get some pretty good shots in daylight !! The customizations of the oxygen os are brilliant...There was an issue of moving the apps to SD card initially but it was solved by a quick software update, but there is a problem with USB OTG, it has some issues in reading the pen drive but I think that can be fixed too !!! Overall it is complete package and anyone buying a smartphone in this price range should give a serious thought about this phone !!!! P.S : It was difficult to get the phone out of the box ( It was really hard to open )
4|I ordered the phone last night , I received it today morning . Amazon service is commendable and I recommend it to everyone . They do not dupe their customers by deleting their reviews , and most reviews are by verified customers . Now for the phone. I have been using the one plus X purchased by my friend for a month almost , I was so impressed with it that I went ahead and bought one for myself. The phone looks premium , and I mean that in every sense of the word , the Gorilla glass front and back , the textured sides , the very tactile buttons , sturdy feel in hand , it leads you to believe that the phone costs a lot more than it actually is ,at 17000 it supercedes the build quality of any phone in this range . The oxygen OS on the phone is a mildly modified version of Android , and it is faithful to stock Android and doesn't deviate much from it like the bundled and bloated UIs of Samsung HTC and the like , if you are a fan of the no nonsense Android UI ,you will love this phone . Apart from the one plus radio and swift key there aren't any bloat ware on the phone . Yes oxygen OS has some bugs like not being able to recognize your SD card , some lag on chrome and YouTube , but those have been fixed by the update I got the second I turned on my phone. Minor bugs might still be present but nothing that would be too noticeable. The screen on this phone is it's USP , it has a full HD amoled display , which is bloody brilliant , the blacks are so inky and dark that you can't tell the difference between the display and the bezel when on a black wallpaper , to know what I mean , just play a 1080 p video on YouTube and see how wonderful it looks on this screen. The contrast ratios are mind blowing and I cannot see a single pixel on the screen. The phone comes with a back cover , a screen protector already on and a standard charger with a Data cable. The data cable is a flatwire and is of Superior quality. The packaging has been thought through and it feels premium right out of the box . Now for the cons , the battery is on the weaker side , it will last you a working day , but you will definitely have to charge it by 7-8 if you use 3g or WiFi and make about 10 calls a day . The phone does tend to heat mildly , not as much as the negative reviews suggest ,but enough to know that the phone is warmer in the hand , This might be nitpicking but the phone does not come with a headphone. Most of us have one anyway and even if they did the headphones couldn't be any great. I recommend this highly to anyone who is looking for a mid range budget phone which does most things well and some things fantastically.
5|I was in a huge dilemma whether to buy this phone or not, but after almost 2 months of intense surveying,taking opinions, watching and reading reviews of various phones i decided to buy this. In this price bracket there are 3-4 other phones. Like Lenovo Vibe p1, Lenovo vibe s1 ,htc 826 and xiaomi mi 4.I didnt buy lenovo because i dont like their UI plus they also give a lot of bloatware, and me being a stock user earlier i prefered OPX. I agree it doesnt have a great camera and also it doesnt have a great battery backup,i would say it has a decent one but it does the job pretty well. It has Snapdragon 801 which was last years flagship but it is one of the best Chips qualcomm has made and it doesnt matter whether it has a 32 bit or a 64 bit proc as 64 bit would take minimum 2 years for it to establish itself completely into the market. Rest for when it comes to reliability Lenovo hasnt yet proven itself and i'm not talking about htc as htc's low end phones and phones blow 20k are not good.Trust me, apart from the then launched HTC 816 dual sim there not other mid range phone has proven itself.Now it comes to Xiaomi mi4i it is a good performer but when it comes to comparing with OPX it doesnt beat it plus a huge drawback is it doesnt support external SD.Also,Xiaomi is launching new phones but it wont be in this bracket as far as i know. because the mi4c will not be launched in india and mi5 will be highly priced.So as far is Oneplus is concerned theyve already made their mark in the market by proving themselves with two world class phones(1+1 and 1+2) and this phone is equally an excellent performer and Oneplus gives top quality features.The looks are better than any phone in the market.A glass body with a metal frame looks Stunning.I would say it looks better than the iphone also.It doesnt look cheap too like the Lenovo.It gives such a premium feel just by holding and looking at it.When it comes to the performance it has 3gigs of ram and is excellent at multitasking without any lag,without any lag at all.Better than all the phones trust me ive surveyed this phone for the last 1.5 months and a total of 2 months while searching for other phones. The best Part of the phones is its screen and i have only only one word FABULOUS. According to me go for it.
4|First of let me give a review about amazon... I finally got an invite and ordered it and it got returned than again I managed to get invite so ordered it from my friends amazon account and again it got returned. And somehow I got the third invite and ask them to deliver to ahmedabad and finally the delivered there. So amazon courier service is the worst I have seen so far. Now about oneplus X you can't get a premium phone for this price for sure. It's just look stunning yeah it's fingerprint magnet but still It's looker. And display is just amazing for its price as so build quality also just top notch... Battery life could have been better but still good enough.. Camera is also good I wasn't expecting a good camera from 17k phone but I'm surprised.. Music quality is ok I used to own the htc m7 so I can clearly her the difference. So if oneplus will read this review please forget about the black Glass panel it's looks good but not quiet practical. Sandstone back would also work I guess. And please improve battery life for next model.. And please launch the next upgraded model of this next year. I'll buy it for sure... If your budget is 17k just go for it but if dual sim is your priority than don't go for it... Thank you oneplus to creating such good device and hope to see a better device from next year...
3|I used missed call feature to get the invite, got the invite next day, placed the order on Amazon and got the product next day.After three days of use I finally placed a return request on Amazon. Honestly this was a tough decision for me. Phone's built quality is very good and it looks extremely good. Camera I would say above average. Screen quality is very very good and some very handy gesture control for camera, flash light and screen wake up. The phone charger and USB cable looks very premium and overall packaging is very impressive. Now the questions comes why on earth I have placed return request. I would like to make bullet points: 1. When I got the phone I put class 10, 32 GB memory card and I was not able to see it in Settings > Storage and also was not able to move any App to SD card. Luckily that night only I got one update with some hot fix(2.1.3 X) and this issue got resolved. Thanks to one plus for that. 2. Still some very handy features are still missing like You can set a default storage to SD card for the camera for the pics and videos taken from your device. 3. There is no Gallery application. You have to use Google Photos to view all photos. I placed some good quality photographs(almost a gb) (taken from DSLR) to the SD card and tried to open it from google photos and guess what phone started heating up and battery also reduced by 10% during that. Somehow I feel that when it comes to device memory phone's performance is excellent but when it comes to SD card operation it is buggy. 4. There is no headphone provided in the box. Although one screen protector and one phone cover is extra items which we don't expect phone makers to provide. 5. One more important point that OS is so buggy even with android lollipop so we should not expect that marshmallow android update will be given soon by one plus. For god sake please release that after proper testing. 6. I was slightly irritated by the above mentioned points then I saw this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T7rlkETHEPI and this guy also not seems to be happy with the phone. Then I went to one plus forum and there I saw so many complaints people are facing specially related to OS. Some of them is just too high expectation with a phone with this price tag and some of them I found basic needs only. So all on all one plus decided to launch this phone in market without proper testing and people like me has to suffer. I would say till the time these bugs are not fixed phone is not recommended. But I have given 3 starts considering that phone's hardware and looks and screen is very good and I believe its good for those people who can manage in 16GB considering 6 GB will be eaten up by OS itself. BTW guys after using this phone only one phone seems to be good option in 5' display which is Moto G3 but the screen quality is very bad in that. Any suggestion under 20k?
4|One of the best things you can get your hands upon at this price. A lot of pros, no need to mention all of them in detail as they've already been covered in one review or another over here. USP - killer looks. Can give any phone currently on the market from any price range a run for its money in this department for sure. Dark mode adds to the looks, closely integrating the screen. Coming to the screen, it is another big plus as this phone flaunts a magnificent screen. A lot of others pros, which I'm skipping. Coming to the cons, the hardware buttons should've been backlit which is one of the major disappointment alongwith its battery life, which stands at around 5 hours for me at heavy usage, and is thus clearly a major setback for heavy smartphone users. Also, the charger provided is good but avoid dropping it as it is very fragile. I had to replace my first model as its charger stopped working after I dropped it on ground but thankfully, Amazon replaced it without much hassle. A big thumbs up to Amazon for its service in this regard. No issue with delivery and packaging also. Coming back to the phone, one other major cons is some apps hang even with 3 GB RAM but that is infrequent so can be coped up with. Another disappointment for those who do not own a good pair of earphones/headphones that One plus fails to offer the same alongwith the phone, which is surprising to say the least, but wasn't a problem for me as I already have 2 nice pairs of headphones. Besides, the 16 GB internal memory won't be problematic for single SIM users as they can insert external memory but dual sim users are going to face selection headache whether to go for the second SIM or a micro SD card, which in my case, I went with the latter. All in all, despite some of these cons, I'd say a great buy as you wont get anything better at this price.
2|While I was initially quite happy with this phone, unfortunately a few problems started creeping in. It's probably one of the better phones in this price range but I am hoping for a series of software updates to address these small but annoying problems. The problems I have are: 1. After you encrypt the phone every time you re-start the phone the language changes back to Hindi. Once I manually change it back to English there are still certain words that appear in Hindi. 2. When I call certain landlines from SIM 2 they are dialled from SIM 1 which defeats the purpose of a dual SIM phone. 3. A week into using it, it is already a little laggy. 4. I ordered a second phone as a present but the phone would not turn on. Luckily Amazon replaced it. 5. Customer service is a joke. Their first response to everything is to do a factory reset which costs them nothing but is a huge inconvenience for the user. Their next response is that they will take care of it in the next software update. Sadly neither of these steps have resolved the issue. The reason I keep the phone: I also considered the Nexus 5x but apart from price the other reasons I kept the One Plus X is that: 1. It is dual SIM which I find useful 2. It uses a micro-USB charger. I don't want to have to buy a whole new set of USB Type C chargers that the Nexus 5x needs. 3. The finish is really sleek albeit a little too slippery.
5|I have received this on Dec 23rd. Truly one of the best smartphones in the range. I will not go through the specifications as it is already mentioned here on the product description. There is no difference to what has been mentioned already. However, I will go through my experience of using it in the past 2 days: 1. I have read reviews that the camera quality is not good and can be better but I find the camera quality and the pictures taken up to the mark for normal every day usage. In fact it works fine even in low light. 2. There has been no performance issues as well. I have opened close to 11 apps simultaneously for about 30 minutes and they seem to be working smoothly so the 3GB RAM lives up to its reputation. 3. The space is a little cramped with only 16GB is you like to download a lot of apps but it is expandable which you can merge with internal memory as well so it won't be an issue later. 4. The OS is working perfectly though I was a little reluctant at first. It draws out of the best from Android and merges it with the looks of One Plus. 5. The final thing that blew my mind is the sharp looks. It looks no less than a 40k range smartphone. The wide 5 inch screen is absolutely crystal clear with the 441PPI display. I will absolutely give it a double thumbs up!
3|I used this mobile so for 40days. Good - 1.Design- very attractive and very handy.4/5 2.Front camera- It work's good in low light and also pixel quality also good.4/5 3.Processor- Not lagy so far. Application opens smoothly without any lag,.3.5/5 Display- Full hd 441 ppi, worthy on this 17k cost...display was in pure black and works superb in sunlight.,5/5 Sound - Sound quality is simply good it's not louder nor not calmer... It's moderate 3/5 Bad Camera- Rear camera 13mp , not even 5mp camera quality very disappointment of camera quality more grains in low light condition..No flash in photo mode , flash light available only for video mode...so it is not helpful to photo in night.2/5 Battery- It backups only for 3to 4 hrs to hard users and 8 to 9 hrs to light users.. So we need to carry power bank in hands to charge up the mobile..2/5 Memory- very disappointment of 16 gb inbuilt storage but we use micro SD card to extensions upto 128gb.. But main disadvantage is , we can use either dual sim or one nano sim ,one memory card...so we cannot able insert both dual sim and memory card...2.5/5 Heat- Phone getting very hot...Can't able to hold in hands.... 2/5
4|At 16999/- the phone houses an amazing internals though similar to that of Oneplus One, the amoled screen give a great visual feast everytime you look at the phone. Being an Apple user since iPhone 4 most apple users couldn't move to another phone because of poor build qualities comparatively but loved the build quality of Oneplus X. It surely gives a rich premium feel one would love. Bearable amount of heat is produced beneath the camera when the phone is subjected to moderate - extensive usage but as said, very much bearable. Oxygen has been so consistent and reliable interms of system crash & restart that it could be compared to the samibilty of iOS again. (Guess even the stock might not be so stable). System updates - after sales service is the key to winning the consumer good will and Oneplus seems to understand that. Within 20 days of purchase 3 updates, fixing various issues including the memory card detection & readability. Camera is the only drawback in terms of - clarity of the picture captured in any situation other than that has bright sunlight. Low light performance isn't anyway appreciable as it could definitely have been better but where do you cut the cost, after all??? Verdict - if you are business user or the one who uses a mobile for mostly moderate usage tending to be extensive at times in terms of no. Of applications used at a time, the mobile suits you very much. And please do not compare this with the flagship devices as this doesn't have the flagship pricing too. This is truly most elegant among the mobiles of its price bracket and a beast for most of the users out there.
4|Pros: The product is one of the best in this price range. The display, looks, camera, cpu, ram, network, and storage specs are truly worth it for this price. You could find detailed info from plenty of other sources. Cons: 1. An immediate downside you will feel is the phone call voice quality is just average. It just works and is audible, thats all. Do not expect a smooth and refined experience. 2. The AFTER-SALE SERVICE SUCKS.I bought this phone from Chennai, and due to liquid damage the phone is not booting up anymore. I tried to repair it, but the authorised service centre (B2X, Guindy) is not able to do so because they DO NOT HAVE THE NECESSARY HARDWARE TOOLS yet. So they cannot even open the phone to come up with a diagnosis! The delay is due to an internal problem in OnePlus company, due to which they have not yet shipped the above mentioned tools to the service centres in India. Their global support team told me to contact their INDIA SUPPORT TEAM, WHO ALSO DOES NOT HAVE ANY CLUE when the tools will be shipped. And here I am, as of this moment, waiting in the dark.
4|I have had the phone for about 5 days now and I can honestly say it's the best phone I've used till date. That includes Xperia Z and Moto G3. The phone is amazingly fast, very smooth and the Oxygen OS is extremely easy to navigate. The phone is about the same size as Xperia Z, but slimmer and sleeker. Which is saying something as the Z has one of the best bodies ever. The back has a few problems with fingerprint attraction, but it can be solved by using the case provided in the box. It's not as clunky or ugly as some would have you believe. It's actually quite practical. Battery life is very decent. I just traveled out of town without a powerbank but thankfully the battery lasted all day and I faced no problems. The charger is superfast. The AMOLED display is beautiful. With 3GB RAM and an Octacore processor, gaming is an absolute delight on this phone. The camera is the BEST feature of this phone. Both the 13 MP back facing camera and the 8 MP front facing one create crystal clear images. Even in low light, the pixelating is minimum. There are a few drawbacks to this phone, but those are minuscule compared to the pros. If you are on a budget but still want a phone that packs a punch, go for OnePlus X. You will not be disappointed.
4|Phone is awesome and having all what we need in a budgeted price. Need to be careful, Hence it is completely glass on both sides. Its nice that One Plus box includes both the Back Cover and Screen Guard which is really nice. Camera is Nice, But having lot of disadvantages for some options it does not enable flash, Sometimes all the options not available, Designed based on the sunlight. I guess that should be removed and provide the user to select. (Disadvantage) We can not store photos in SD card(Disadvantage). If anytime we do Reset, Need to backup. I think in the next update its good if they provide the option to store in SD card. Oxygen OS is a plus instead of having direct Android version. Overall the product is Good. There are lot of enhancements as part of the OS has to be taken care. With every enhancement we are loosing something which is exist in the previous software. Ex: Previous we had close all open apps at a instance by pressing the close button at the top, Now that is missing in the new update and need to close each app separately. SD card issue fixed finally. That really helps.
4|It's an awesome phone. I was using an iPhone earlier and was looking to upgrade to the 6. A big Apple fan because whenever u pick up the phone to do anything it works, never hanged or behaved on its whimps . A colleague suggested One plus 2. I saw the phone one plus 2 and the experience was good. Then I read about the oneplusx. I read about it and I liked the attention given to details and the 8megapixel front camera (faking awesome), 3gb ram & an external memory slot Is just what I needed. When the phone was delivered to me on the very next day after being launched, I couldn't believe that phone was exactly what it looked like in pictures. It doesn't feel that u are holding a 17k phone. Awestruck. Now I do so many things with this phone. I write my blog, Social media, manage campaigns and what not. So, basically the phone works whenever I pick it to do anything. This is a product made to empower it's user and not haggle him. I specially like the screen. It's not too big. I can use it with hand and watching HD videos on this screen is a treat for the eyes, selfies look great. One draw back is that one cannot store files directly on the memory card. The camera response time is very slow to capture any sort action and hence many blurry pictures. But other than that this phone makes android look good. (this last line is truly heartfelt) Battery capacity is slightly low, but for me the battery takes me through the day of music 1hr, what's app 30 mins, Social media 30 mins, videos 1 hr, all my work related 1.5 hrs. Calls 30 mins. Not a big fan of games. Highly Recommend this phone.
5|Got this phone last month. This is my review after 1 month of using this phone. It is a good looking phone with on par hardware and clean simple software. Pros: 1) Premium look - Glossy finish with glass panels on both sides and metal frame on the sides. The Glasses curve at the edges towards the metal frame gives a premium look. The phone is much slimmer at 6.9mm, same as iphone 6. 2) Display quality - Nice clean display with 1080p resolution and with AMOLED we can exploit the blackness properties of AMOLED in this phone. Colours are deep and slightly over-saturated. But overall the display is comparable with high end phones. Even 20% of brightness is enough to bring out the clarity. 3) Decent Performance and battery - An year old snapdragon processor but it has enough punch to provide the speed and efficiency we expect. Battery is ok and it extends for a day. Standby time (when the display is off during nights) is very good. 4) Dual sim/memory slot - I was looking for a dual-sim phone and I'm happy to have this phone. People who don't want to have dual-sim can still make use of the memory card slot to expand their storage. This combination attracted me very much because I can decide what to do to with the secondary sim slot. 5) Nice decent case and scratch guard provided as part of the package itself. Cons: Lot of issues came up from different people during the first few weeks of usage like SD card issues, heating and camera,etc. Few of these are software related. After subsequent updates from oneplus. The SD card issue seems to be solved. The phone doesn't overheat. It does heats but only to a bearable level whenever any processor intensive applications are used, which is completely normal. Few cons: 1) Slippery and fingerprint magnet - Due to glass finish, the phone is highly slippery on both sides. The metal frame gives some grip. But the phone case provides proper grip. The phone attracts lot of fingerprint on both sides, long term maintenance is problematic, attracts some dust as well. 2) Below par back camera - Back camera and flash is not so good. Even though it is 13 MP it doesn't take clear crisp images everytime. Proper lighting is required. Even HDR and beauty mode doesn't help much. Image stabilization is missing. 3) Fragile - The phone panels might crack if there is any accidental fall. So need to take extreme care in using it. I am using 4g and 3g sims in the phone. The phone performs well with both. Call quality and data connectivity is good on both. Overall I'm satisfied with the phone and I believe oneplus has justified enough with the features in the phone for the amount we pay. This phone is recommended for anyone who wants a premium looking, but cheap phone with decent performance and on par battery life. Camera is slightly a let down.
5|First things first, this is a Premium Budget Phone. With the Premium factors being (1) The look and built of the phone. It feels sturdy and elegant. My favourite iPhone in similar adjectives is still the iPhone 4s, of which the One Plus X seems to be an evolution of. Clearly someone at One Plus loves that design of iPhone 4s and wonders why Apple abandoned that. And dat Amoled Screen... man. If I had to be politically correct, I would have to say that the screen is the most purest African American I have ever seen. (2) The UX (User Experience). This often overlooked department, especially in Budget phones is a delight in One Plus X. The closest competion in terms of a sweet UX in this budget range are the offerings from Motorola. The Budget Phone : at 17k I can't suggest a better phone for the price range. I have been using this for a month now. No complaints. Charges fast. With my usage, the screen being on 1/3rd of the day the battery lasts 25 26 hrs on average. Only once or twice due to heavier usage has the battery life been shorter. 5 Stars and definitely recommended.
5|First of all hats off to Amazon's delivery speed, I ordered my phone at 4pm and boom, its at my door step the next day at11:15. and I thought flipkart delivery was fast. Now lemme get to the product. I got this for my dad as his first smart phone so that he moves on from his old Nokia. The product was as described, packed well, and the display is also good more than that I also liked the simplicity and easy to use features on the device, the gesture control on the lock screen work as promised , I still haven't got a chance to check the phone on any benchmarking software but will do that later and update you all, as of now the device is performing well and the silicone case coming also with is great as it dosent make the phone look bulky. One issue is that you either use 2 sims at once or use one sim and a micro SD as the slot is shared, The custom oxygen OS also does a good job and gives a pleasurable usage experience, till now I haven't been able to find any bugs. And as I said I'll update this review later. I would definitely recommend this phone to others.
4|Design:It's absolutely spectacular, such an eye catching design with a glass back of course it is too slippery in hand,feels premium.Looks are familiar to iPhone 4s,Sony xperia z5 which is something to find in a 17k phone Rating:9/10 Display:The device has got a full HD 1080p amoled display which certainly make a difference, I would definitely say that it is better than its big brothers oneplus 1 and 2,viewing angles are better too Rating:9/10 Software: It runs on latest Android lollipop 5.1.1 and oxygen os.Yeah, oxygen os has got certain lags but it's like new born baby ,1+ is trying hard to minimise the lags in it ,the company has already rolled 4 software updates ,over all after the software updates I would say that the phone is doing good with its software Rating:7.5/10 Chipset:It has got Snapdragon801 a quad core processor clocked at 2.5 GHz with 3gb ram though it's not the latest it is doing pretty ,there are no lagging issues,gaming performance is also pretty decent ,for high end gamers it would be bit of problem. Rating:8/10 Camera:It has got a 13 mp back camera and a 8mp front facing one .Back one disappointed me,its not that expected from one plus though it clicks decent pictures in day light it lags in shooting in low light conditions. It doesn't support 4k video recording and laser autofocus is also missing. On the other hand front facing camera is quite satisfactory, and I feel it's good and up to the mark. Rating:7/10 Overall Rating:8.1/10 Final verdict:For 17k bucks one plus x absolutely makes some difference ,I'll say its out of the box and suggest to go for it.
4|I have noticed a screen quality issue with my newly purchased OnePlus X (Onyx) from Amazon (Ordered on 6 Nov 2015). This is my first phone from OnePlus. The phone arrived with a screen guard already pasted on the display. I have noticed a tiny dust particle on the display, on the upper leftside of the screen which I ignored thinking it is not inside the glass screen and can be wiped off removing the screen guard. At the time of purchase, there were no accessories available. Later after two weeks I ordered OnePlus X Flip Cover (Black) for the phone along with OnePlus Silver Bullet Earphones. After receiving the orderd items, I decided to remove the screen guard and realized the dust particle is inside the glass on the AMOLED screen and can't be removed. I would have returned the phone for a replacement if I had realized it earlier. But now the time for returning the product to Amazon.in is over (10 days).The particle is visible on white and light color backgrounds especially light green, it appears as a dark dot when viewing straight and beginning to glow when slightly tilt the phone (resembles a tiny drop of water on the display). I think it is not a dead pixel (it is not showing up when on black screen or when screen turned off), but dust. It is not a very big issue but this make me think there is serious quality control issue with OnePlus. Contacted OnePlus Customer Service and they advised me to step into the nearest Service Center to get the device diagnosed. Except this defect, the phone looks great. So I am giving it a 4 star rating. Buyers please make sure they've not received a defective unit. To run diagnostic tests on your device dial *#808#
5|The OnePlus X is a fantastic device! Period! I bought this as a gift, but its so good that I wished I had one more for myself, even though I myself am using the big bro OP2..! Stunning looks, killer package, awesome VFM, that thin light construction, that pure black amoled screen, that ambient/active display tech..!!! oh man.... pure briliance.. Phones should be like this - hot enough that you love them and can use them for 2 years or so comfortably... But then should cost you a fortune because these devices are so personal that you will wanna change them within a couple of yrs anyways.. plus the problem of tech obsolescence.! I mean even if a gadget is working perfectly fine by itself, it wont hold a candle to its future compatriots,a dn their features.. And neither will you feel proud to be seen in public with archaic devices. And worst, performance dips simply because latest software and apps on old hardware is just not goin to be the same ! what I mean is - dont spend too much money on phones...... only problem was, less money meant obviously cheap quality compromises and sorry excuses for smartphones... well not anymore!!! :) Get an OnePLus device... any one! you will not get somehting better for your money!
5|This is great phone. Looks very premium. For this price you cannot get better phone than this. Pros: 1. Good looking, slim and light weight phone. 2. 3GB RAM. So very fast. 3. FM Radio. I like this options. No other 1+ phone has this feature. 4. Expandable memory upto 128GB. But one thing is you can either use second SIM or memory card. 5. Good battery life. 6. No heating problem on heavy internet usage. This phone heats only when it install OS updates or you do long hour charging. That too very minimal heat. 7. AMOLED display. For me it looks better than One plus 2. Cons: 1. Camera quality is not that great on low lighting. 2. People says no Type-c Charger. I don't want that. Because you cannot take the charger everywhere. Still Type-c is not in everyone's hand. So in case of emergency, i bet you cannot find Type-c charge near by you. 3. 4k video recording and fast charging. (I don't want any of these. Full charging takes 30 - 45 mins. Not a big time. right ??) 4. If you play only candy crush kind of games, no problem at all. But if you are a game freak and want to play hight end games, don't buy this phone. Better go with one plus 2. 5. Finger print scanner. (People say this. But i don't find any difficulty in unlocking the phone.)
5|Fantastic phone. If you're looking for a phone with a smoother than butter UI combined with a terrific premium build quality, while willing to forego some top notch specs, this is it. Don't be daunted by the older processor. It's still a 800 series one that combined with a characteristically high processor frequency at 1.5GHz will run circles around the newer 600 series ones. Only con worth mentioning - It doesn't support Quickcharge. Yes, it'll charge your phone in a little over 2 hours, but still. Especially since the phone is designed to accept only a maximum of 1.5A from its 2A adapter. Just seems like an addition that would have made the phone far more useful for very little cost. SD Card functioning perfectly. Go all out with a 128GB card. The Deep Blacks of the Amoled Display. Oh boy! Are they a delight! The color contrast is unmatched by even the much costlier Amoled displays. Overall, a perfect phone, that definitely will fit in your hand better than its predecessors. OxygenOS is absolutely lovely. Clean, smooth, and more importantly, has a highly responsive development team to fix issues with updates/hotfix patches. Trust me, the problem-to-fix update time is definitely the fastest among any of the other companies. Apart from that, OxygenOS has some customizable features here and there that compliment the UI. I particularly enjoy the double tap to wake, and long press on the capacitive button to sleep feature. You'll find lots more inside. Have to hunt around, that's all. What's in the box? The phone, a 1m flat charging cable, a standard 5V 2A power adaptor, a pin to remove the SIM/SD slot, and a clear silicone case perfectly fitted to the phone. Enjoy!
5|Almost everything have been written about this mobile phone. I have been using it since past 7-8 days.This phone is one of the most beautiful phones ever made Feels really really good in hand.In terms of performance it has been butter smooth for me, tho I haven't done any heavy gaming.For daily usage it has been phenomenal. Regarding camera, I feel it is one of the best in price range but I really am not a camera person, so can't say much but I really do like its camera. Sound quality is good, sound I quite loud but at full volume sometimes sound is distorted, tho not by much. Sound quality in earphones is a bit of a downside for me. I used Xiaomi redmi 1s before this nd there is a good amount of difference in sound quality through earphones. Battery backup is good too for me. Got around 3.5-4 hours screen on time in regular to high usage. I faced a problem that battery took around 3-4 hours initially to get fully charged, but now it charges in around 2 hours. SD card issue has been fixed through an update. I played Clash of clans on it while charging, it got a little heated up but that is all it normal imo. I do feel that the touch feels a bit laggy if we use the phone while charging. All in all it is a damn good mobile phone. Nd the best in its price segment. It feels really great in hand and day to day usage is butter smooth. I would give it 4.5 stars out of 5
5|I have been using a Oneplus One for a while now, and am posting this review based on my experience with a close friend's Oneplus X, which he was able to buy with the invite I got. (I got another recently, mail me your number to aa_15@mailinator.com if interested) Form Factor: Simply unbeatable. The quality and design rival that of my iPhone 4s -unimaginable at this price. I'm more comfortable with the compact dimensions of the X. Performance: So issues here - no lag. Can't comment on gaming because I don't game. However, my One running Cyanogenmod has been very buggy of late (have added numerous applications), it remains to be seen if this will be the case with the X as well. Camera: Again, seems for for this price. Battery Life: My buddy has a problem with the battery life.His drains out faster than my One does, but this probably has to do with his usage. Specs: A lot has already spoken on this, and I too echo the majority opinion that the specs are pretty reasonable at this price point. One negative, however: The phone gets very warm when my friend plays a lot of games. This was the case with my One too. VERDICT: Nothing comes close at this price, IMHO. Go for it. Note - I haven't dealt with Oneplus service centres yet, so I have obviously not factored this point while delivering my verdict.
3|Issues I am facing : 1) I bought this device on November 6th. Now I am having problem with front camera. It doesn't work!! (It was working when I cleared cache,data & reboot for once when problem occurred. Then again failed & clearing doesn't help any more.) Even in 3rd google camera front camera option doesn't show. [Not sure if it would be fixed with an update] 2) Memory card doesn't show in Settings. Hence, you can't move apps to SD card. (Hope it will be fixed with an OTA update) 3) Also the device shows some considerable lag/frame drops, even while playing very less graphic intensive games. (of sizes 40mb & below) (If the above issues could be fixed. I would rate the phone 4 plus) Pros: 1.Design 2.For every day activities, phone is fast enough. It won't disappoint in any way. Cons (Which I felt was a let down for the price) : 1. Main camera could have been better. Only in outdoors the clarity is good. (But still camera is not as expected) 2. OLED Display are as usual with deep blacks & vibrant colors. (But not that bright in sunlight as seen with Super Amoled's)
4|This a great phone.The hardware is excellent and the display is crystal clear and crisp. It's an AMOLED display and it is fantastic. i am going to concentrate only on problems, i have been using this phone for past 15 days and these are the problems i faced, CAMERA: The rear camera is decent for the price, i wouldn't say it is a great camera but it is value for money. However once in a while it has focusing problems. Surprisingly the front camera is great, better than rear camera(I say). SD CARD PROBLEM: There was one problem with the sd card. it was not supporting exFAT formats and inability to move apps to sd card. however the recent update which I recieved today(1.12.2015) solved all of these issues.Now it is perfectly fine. The phone has a snapdragon 801 and yes it tends to get warm and if you play games it does get hot. BATTERY LIFE: The battery life is average it almost lasts a day on an average use. PROBLEM WITH 4G: i don't know if i am the only one getting this occasionaly when on a 4g network(i use airtel 4g) the one plus x drops calls. i am not facing this issue often but still call drops are bad. SPEAKER: The load speaker is descent however the oneplus x does not come with a built-in equaliser.so we have to instal third party equaliser and i not satisfied with that. Overall even though these are minor faults, i can mange this and i love this product.
5|I bought an Acer Z630S before this. As it turns out that phone has several problems with it. The touch was bad along with other cons. I returned that phone(after a lot of hassles from flip kart). One plus X was the second phone I bought and it's the most beautiful handset I've used. Being an android lover I was genuinely surprised with the refreshing look of the Oxygen OS. Simple, minimalistic and fast. This phone supports Airtel 4G and network issues are none. You always get a signal on your phone. The touch responsiveness of this phone is amazing. The AMOLED display is exactly like in the picture. The black looks deep and the colours are sharp crisp and very very clear. The speaker quality is great. For all those who think that only one of their bottom speakers is working, it's because there is only one speaker. Not 2. It comes with a pre installed screen guard and comes with a packed transparent cover. As I write this review, my phone is updating itself with the newest version of oxygen OS. I believe this phone is a flagship killer, even though some say that the battery is not too big. And battery lasts about 8 hours with average use (data always on, that too 4G). It's a must buy guys. Please do nit this twice before buying this phone. It's great for the price range it comes in. It is a flagship killer phone for me.
5|Well you have n number reasons to love it and i personally dont have a reason not to love it..Bought this phone after going through n number reviews & Blogs..All talking about 3 major drawbacks namely: - 1. Snapdragon 801 2. Camera Pictures have high noise 3. Unable to shoot 4k videos though the processor supports the same Now to those drawbacks i wanna answer to all the reviewers: - 1. You say "Snapdragon 801 is an ageing processor hence this phone is not future ready", I wanna ask those big shots for how long are they planning to use this phone...5 years, 10 years or for lifetime..bunch of morons think that this processor is ancient..hell before you say this you should understand that an average life span of a smart phone is 2.5 years after that either the phone starts developing problems or you loose interest in your phone and you become bore of using the same device..so anyways you will buy a new phone after 2-3 years so how the hell it matters to you..until you are writing codes for a high speed rocket which is to be launched by NASA in near future.. :P 2. Coming to camera resolution...Its an awesome camera shoots awesome pictures..you will only notice any difference unless you are really an ace photographer and you shoot for a living, in that case why the hell you wanna shoot from your cellphone..won't you be carrying a professional camera all the time or you are "Michelangelo" and want to shoot "Monalisa" :D 3. Now for the 4k video, for cry out loud does anyone even have the hardware to view that kind of a video on their computer, 4k videos are very high resolution videos which requires a 4k video monitor to be best viewed and if you dont have a 4k video monitor or TV at home how the hell it matters to you...yes its an amazing piec of tech but again India has to wait a long time to get itself well equipped for 4k to the mass population So bottom line is its a 17k device and its a steal deal...you cant get a better phone at this price point, Nubia, Meizu might look attractive in the reviews but before going to buy it check if they have an after sales service centre in you city...if not you know what to do...One Plus is expanding their service centres rapidly and are almost present in all major cities in India Last but not the least a standing ovation of my little soldier to those reviewers and bloggers who are not writing for mass population but are writing to satisfying their own ego against their competitors..All the best and Enjoy.. :D
5|I bought the Oneplus x about two weeks ago and the delivery from Amazon was amazing as the product arrived the very next day ! So 5 stars to Amazon for the delivery. I have divided the review into 7 sections viz. Design, Display, User Interface, Performance, Camera, Gaming and Battery. So let's start ! Design This is the Oneplus x’s strongest point. The built is all metal and glass and the device looks and feels very premium. It is very slim ( just 6.9mm ) and really lightweight too. So it feels great in hand and the 5” screen adds to the great handling. The phone won't slip off your hand that easily as it seems but yes you do have to be a bit careful as it looks kind of delicate. Display Coming to the display, it is its second strongest area. It sports a relatively compact 5” screen which is really refreshing to see as most manufacturers these days are bumping the screen sizes to 5.5 or even 6 inches. Its full HD AMOLED display is very sharp as the PPI is 441 thanks to the smaller screen. The deep inky blacks just blend in with the black bezels and make the device look amazing. Moreover there is an option of dark theme which changes the backround to black where it is white in the stock lollipop. This not only makes the display look even more beautiful but also helps save a little battery as the black pixels in AMOLED are actually switched off unlike the LCD panels which are backlit. So throw in some nice black wallpapers and that'll help you save some juice too. Overall the vivid colors look really nice and look to pop out of the screen and the viewing angles are great too. The touch screen too is really great so texting is a joy. User Interface This is my favourite part as I hate all the UIs except the sense by HTC. Oneplus too decided to add there own UI which they call the Oxygen UI. I think Oxygen's the best UI after Sense. Actually it is not exactly a UI. It's just the stock android plus some really useful features added which is a great thing. Oneplus didn't change anything from the stock Lollipop and only has added stuff some of which was present on Cyanogen Mod on Oneplus one for example: You can customize the hardware buttons to perform more than one task. I have set the home button to ‘Switch off screen’ on double tap and ‘Open camera’ on long press. This is really helpful as you don't have to reach for the power button every time, just double tap on the home button irrespective of where you are on your phone and the screen locks instantaneously! And you won't miss a shot as you don't necessarily have to minimise whatever you're doing and then open the camera app, you can just long press home button and it'll fire up the camera.Neat! One more feature is the gesture support. For example while the screen is off, you can draw gestures like II,>/< to play/pause, or play next/previous track, draw an O to open camera and double tap to wake too. These features are very handy in daily usage and makes everything really fast. Overall the UI is great as it is just the stock android and I love it. Performance Performance wise too it can smash any phone in the 30k range. Yes, it's that snappy ! Although the processor is a year old but it doesn't fail to perform. Multitasking is a piece of cake for it! It can multi task between the heaviest of the games and apps and it won't lag even a bit and neither the games will reload, thanks to the 3gb RAM. So, all great till now but wait here is the downside! Cameras The cameras are more or less OK. Both the snappers are very quick and the shutter speed is great. The photo quality is decent but the photos come out to be a little shaky when you zoom in which is due to lack of optical image stabilisation. The front camera, however, is programmed to detect your face and focus on it automatically which is nice but when your background is bright, it will appear a bit whitish because of too aggressive focusing which isn't good. Overall the cameras aren't great but they are good for the price you're paying. However, if you are a pro photographer, you might not like the photo quality. Gaming This the weakest area of this phone. Although the GPU is the powerful Adreno 330 but it stutters every now and then, even in light games like Stick Cricket 2. My experience playing Asphalt 8 was really annoying as there was a slight stutter throughout. This problem shouldn't have been there and surely the programming of the GPU isn't up to the mark. This can be fixed by a future OTA update though. Regarding the heating of the phone, the phone does get hot near the camera region after too much of gaming. Although you won't experience any heating issue during normal or extensive use except gaming. Moreover gaming sucks the juice really fast and the phone won't last for long if you are an extensive gamer. Overall if you are a hardcore gamer, this phone is probably not for you. Battery The battery is a modest 2525 mAh which seems quite average on paper but performs decently well and stood to my expectations. It easily lasts a whole day with a good screen on time of above 4 hours on heavy usage. The AMOLED factor probably comes to play here as it's power efficient. Moreover the charger is of 2Amp output hence the charging is quite fast (0-100% in about 2.5hours ). Overall the battery's nice and you should not face any problems. Verdict A great phone at an exceptional price, looks great, performs great, overall is great except if you are a gamer. It is far better than phones in the 20k range like the Moto x play. It's even better than the Oneplus one and if you're looking for a phone under 20k with amazing performance and looks, the Oneplus x is the one for you.
3|Have used the phone for a week now....all in all its an ok phone for the price given....certain features are different, some not there at all...but there is an upgrade that it coming up...so hopefully there will be some change. for e.g - 1) there is no default gallery app, it uses google photos, so its not your traditional android organized folders; 2) contact groups are not read here even if u have backed it up with google, they just don't show. (atleast I have'nt figured out a way to make it show) 3) SD card cannot be made as the default memory, its just the internal memory, so your photos clicked will have to be synced with google if u want to preserve them. 4) The profile function is different its not your standard General, Silent, Outdoor..etc...there is a slider button at the side it is called priorities, the function can be set accordingly. 5) The feature where in when you make a call and once the call is answered it vibrates so that you dont hv to hold the phone to you ear the whole time, that's not available. 6) There is something different about the email function, not sure how to explain that. You can connect and log into Gmail and an icon is shown for that, but I also have a hotmail mail box, in the OPO there was a separate icone "Email" which was where i accessed my hotmail, in the OPX the icon is the same "GMAIL" the mail boxes are merged and i havent yet figured out how to view them a individual items. As is said before it is an okay phone for the price, if you can live without the above smalller functions itll work great. I love it as it is easily sits in your hand, unlike the OPO which was to big to handle.
5|I bought this mobile via Amazon and got it the next night. Though the were climate trouble the package was perfect. Hats off to Amazon. Now coming back to one plus x, its awesome. I cannot list down the pros as it will keep going on for pages. So I'll just say what I felt a little (just a little) down was that the phone heats up. 1: Due to the metal finish it heats up when you connect it to the system to transfer or charge. 2: The screen has a very smooth finish and the edges are curved therefore sticking a tempered glass is a little tricky. So I'm still new to use this, I have a long way to completely explore it. So far so good, the OS is nice. There are some new software features in built such as face unlock, voice unlock, body unlock, etc which can work by using several third party apps in other mobiles too. Performance is really smooth. 4g lte experience is flawless (though it also depends on your network and location), accessories are limited. Absence of compass and nfc is a slight disappointment. Otherwise with the buy. Happy owner.
4|Hi guys. I am not a review writer, but honestly ONE PLUS X made me to write this for people out there. AMAZON : Hats off to amazon's service. i purchased my ONE PLUS X and on the next day i got the phone at my doorstep ONE PLUS X : My review will be based on best smartphone available in Rs.17000 so, please react according to that. Pros: -Build quality, its exceptionally strong and beautiful -Display, AMOLED screen which gives life to every pixel -RAM, 3 GB which powers up the Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor -SD card support, which also gives alternatively a negative view to the phone(explained in Cons) -CAMERA, is really beautiful as the company claims -Performance, the phone has great performance capability under heavy use. -Notification slider, which again gives a negative impression while in use(explained in cons) Cons: -SLOTS, if you are looking for a phone with dual sim and SD card support, then you will be disappointed. because ONE PLUS X uses the same slot for SD card as well as the secondary sim, which is a disappointment -No NFC (doesn't really matter to me at least) -Notification slider is on left side, placed high, which helps the thump to access easily, but it doesn't sync with the power button on the right side, which means whenever i access the slider, my other finger accidentally presses power button or volume rocker which causes a slight inconvenience -Non-removable battery UNBOXING One Plus X, the beauty of the packaging and attention to detail is a must say, you get the feeling of something very official on your hand. You get a charger, a high quality flat-wired micro-USB cable along with user manual, and the most beautiful and powerful One Plus X itself. For the first time One Plus has also included a translucent silicone back cover, which fit perfect to the phone and is a must have, even though the Onyx glass is scratch resistant you would feel more safe with the back cover. And you can find a factory-fitted clear- screen guard on your phone its not tempered its just a normal screen guard. and the user should be careful while removing the protective film, because you may accidentally remove the screen guard too REVIEW DISPLAY AND BUILD QUALITY: ONE PLUS X gives its first and the best impressions on the looks. With scratch resistant Onyx glass on backside, Corning Gorilla Glass 3 on the front side and a metal frame connecting both the glasses gives the best royal feel ever possible. Edges are curved and the phone is sleek, which again boasts its premium look. Not on the outside but ONE PLUS has also managed to reflect the premium feel inside the X. The 5' 1080p Active Matrix OLED screen is incredibly bright and pleasant to the eyes, and the 441 PPI resolution keeps the screen sharp, as i mentioned earlier the display gives life to every pixel. If you are a reader type ONE PLUS X will give good reading experience because the screen accent will not tire your eyes. PERFORMANCE: A phone doesn't survive alone in its looks or feel, but also the performance. ONE PLUS X offers Quad-core 2.3 GHz Qualcomm Snapdragon processor, coupled with 3 GB RAM which gives enough power for the ONE PLUS X to run even on a disastrous day. I am personally a performance lover. i tested my phone in such a way that i wanted my phone to fail in front of me, I played 4 high graphics games like Asphalt 8: AIRBORNE, Amazing Spider Man 2, Mortal Kombat X and NFS No Limit and left all those games in the background then surfed through Chrome, updated status on FB and watched Nicky Romero's TOULOSE on youtube, again i left them open on background then played Asphalt and checked my position on Google maps, but what ever i did, i had to surrender myself to the phone, because ONE PLUS X was still butter smooth in performance aspect. CAMERA: ONE PLUS X shows off a pretty good camera, 13MP rear camera combined with f/2.2 aperture gives best quality photos with less noise, pretty good for a phone priced at Rs.17000 and 8MP front­-facing camera also gives the selfie maniacs a good reason to smile. but the company's claim on 0.2 -second laser autofocus speed is something which they should rethink. Laser autofocus is pretty fast and accuracy is very good, but speed is not as they claim. Video clarity is good outdoor, but indoor videos are noisy. It needs pretty much good level of light to get a good indoor video. But camera works better in low light photographs. Overall in this price range ONE PLUS X really do satisfy everyone. OS: OXYGEN 2.1.2(UPDATED) Android's LOLLIPOP is all about smooth flow of materialistic design and optimization for better performance, with Oxygen OS what i loved is ONE PLUS X doesn't lose the originality of LOLLIPOP, Oxygen is bloat free OS. and is refined for better performance and battery backup. with an on board BATTERY of 2525 mAh, i doubted if my X could sustain with my hateful everyday use, but that's were the Oxygen OS does its magic. The phone doesn't drinks its battery juice much even though its an OLED Display. It gives you enough battery backup. CONCLUSION: There is not a term called PERFECT in smartphone industry. But There are Classy models which we will remember for a life time. in that sense its a must buy phone in the low price, high specs phone category. In our stylish world i am pretty sure your ONE PLUS X will make you look special. ONE PLUS X = Premium Quality, Good Looking, Best Performing smartphone at a Fine Price tag. As its my first review i must have missed out something. i have tried to give a 100% genuine review. hope you like it.
5|Well a lot of detailed reviews are there which is almost same as mine, but i want to tell you something that i didn't see in any review before i bought.. The phone looks extremely well but only if you used without case!, but we can't use it without because phone is extremely delicate n glass finishing is extremely finger prints catcher and too slippery. there is only one speaker in bottom so don't get confused with dual speaker window, sneaker quality is good but could be better. For selfie lovers this phone is for you but for photo geeks this phone disappoint you, my personal review I'm satisfied with the camera result. AMOLED screen with gorilla glass 3 is all that you want 10 out of 10 for that. n yeaa backside of the phone also provided with GG3 so don't worry about the scratches but yea keep in mind it won't protect you in case you fall your device so better use with case cover. Battery is 2525 its light in weight so making the phone light weight but performance is little less if you use it very hard and also fast charging option is not provided so takes 1-2 hr to charge your phone fully. i will keep updating the review but as of now I'm in love with this phone :)
3|I got this mobile on the release day itself. Was waiting to review the product after 2 weeks of usage. What I liked. 1.The build quality and the display is outstanding! Bang for the buck. What can be improved? 1.Oxygen OS! Buggy and lagging. After 2 weeks, the available RAM is 800MB out of 3 GB(1 GB is allocated to System).(I had the same apps installed MY Moto G3 gave me 900 Free RAM out of 2GB) 2.Camera- It sucks(My Moto G3 liked awesome and better pics than this) 3.Snapdragon 801 ? I guess its not behaving like that. Apps like MX Player and few games took more time to open when compared to SD 410. 4.Not good for music and gaming lovers. 5. Poor SD management. Finally, what all I considered as Pros of this device turned out to be a Con for me. So I RETURNED it after using it for 12 days. Overall satisfaction is lacking here. Now I am happy with my Moto G3. Amazon you deserve true respect. 10 stars for you. No ques asked! The took the product and refunded within 24 hours. I was really amazed. you are truly better than flipkart. Keep rocking.
5|When I was looking for a replacement for my G2, I was clear in my mind that I am not going for a flagship. Though I prefer my phone to be performance oriented, I somehow was not very comfortable spending a fortune on a phone. One Plus X was chosen for more than this reason though: 1. I like the way it sits in my hand. It is just right size for one handed use and big enough for onscreen typing. The protective case included fits nicely and retains the premium feel of the body. 2. The processor is adequate and with 3GB of RAM is more than enough for normal phone usage (may be a little more than normal usage too) 3. The screen is amazing. I love the all black feel to the phone.. very minimalistic all around with just the OnePlus logo on the back. 4. OS is very basic with minimalistic skin unlike many phones out there. It is android, you can customise as you want. X is a no nonsense phone. It just ticks all the necessary boxes for a phone with good quality hardware. The battery life is decent and runs me a day of normal usage, averaging around 3.5+hrs of on screen during my last few days usage. The charging, though not very fast, is fast enough. It fits dual sim or one sim and expanded storage. The phone is light and thin and very comfortable to use single handed. The phone comes with a on screen guard prefit and also a protective casing in the box. There are no headphones provided. The camera output of the phone is not best in class but does its job well. It is the fastest launching camera I have used in any phone till date. The other features like ambient display etc. works well. The hardware key for priority mode is very useful addition. The phone does not have NFC so those feel the need for NFC might skip. Same for fingerprint scanner. This is a sure buy at this price point for those who just want a overall good performance phone.
5|Pros: #) Screen Size - although some people may not like a 5inch screen, i feel it is the perfect size for easy use with one hand, and a good fit in the pocket. The screen is large enough if we deactivate the "software buttons" and use only the "hardware buttons". #) Price - for 17k, it might be a tad more expensive than the CoolPad's, Mi4i's, MicroMax's etc, but check the specs. Snapdragon 801, 3gb ram, expandable memory, 13MP cam, and the awesome design !! Its surely worth it ! #) Design - i'll start with one quote from a review site i saw earlier "It should be illegal for a phone worth only 17k to look this good !!" .. black glass at the back, metal sides, slim, sexy ! Cons: #) Battery - 2520mah when compared to all the 3000+mah's out there. (but the battery does last a day on normal use, and it has quick charge, so it kinda helps). #) Heating - well, while playing high end games, the phone does heat up, but its not unmanageable, it cools down quick, and the heat aint much of a problem while answering calls. i guess this issue is there in all phones while playing high end games, so cant take it as a big con! #) NO earphones - well, u have to buy them extra !
5|Used the phone for nearly 2 weeks now. Here's my review:- Pros :- 1. Nice camera 2. Phone works smoothly 3. No heating issues 4. Average battery backup 5. Very beautiful and sleek design 6. OTG works perfectly Cons:- 1. No separate guide 2. Certain small software issues which will probably be rectified by OnePlus soon. 3. Phone hangs when switching to flight mode and back. 4. Contacts appear with their last names first. 5. Can't use 2 sims along with microSD 6. Little lag in high-end gaming, again a software issue. Will get fixed probably. Incorrectly regarded as goofs:- Flash issue- There is no issue with flash. The people who are not getting the flash option probably have some mode like HDR, beauty, etc. turned on. Turn them off and you will get the option. In the box:- OnePlus X, Charger, USB cable, screen guard (already pasted), a silicone cover, sim ejector (No headphones :( ) Conclusion:- A truly power-packed phone for this price range. A must buy for people looking for quite an elegant phone. The issues that are with the phone would probably get fixed by a software update. P.S. I have an invite. If anyone wants it reply soon to this review.
4|I have bought Oneplus One - used it for almost a year and loved it. You cannot get something that good at this price too often. Then came oneplus two, which I gifted to my wife and I though didn't love it as much as the One, but still a good phone to own. And in a few days, I read about this one. I bought this for a friend. And before handing it over to him, I used it for a day. A day isn't enough to give a detailed review but from what I saw, I loved it. Oneplus is really coming out with a lot of great devices and at a very good pricing. Some good things: 1. Love the size - it's so handy! 2. Screen - brilliant display for normal usage 3. Camera - somehow, Oneplus cameras have always been good 4. Supports additional storage - I missed this feature on a lot of other good phones 5. Includes a good screen guard 6. Includes a decent back cover - this helps because initially there is a big shortage of back covers Bad things: In a day's usage, none!
5|It is an exquisitely designed mobile phone for a discerning customer. Size and form factor are just perfect that it snuggly fits in the palm. Gaming on mobile phone is not my forte and hence no comments on that aspect. Too early to comment on battery backup. Camera is extremely good in natural light. Phone display is breathtaking. It certainly can be a companion for years to come. It is designed in such a manner that the handset is not for the kids who revel in frequently fiddling with the SIM /Memory Card. OnePlus has ensured that my waiting for the perfect phone was fully justified. But the user guide shipped along with the handset is just crap. In the abysmally terse write-up provided, there is a mention about verifying, among other things, color of the battery as a part of health checkup. Battery bay can be accessed only by authorized service personnel. Even the downloaded manual requires some refinement. Anyway, it has got nothing to do with the quality of the phone. I feel that a tempered glass with be a conspicuous appendage on the perfectly crafted fascia. Can I get quality screen guard instead, as a backup for the one already provided on the phone?
4|I have been using this phone from last 2 weeks and here is my review of it: Pros: 1. 5 in AMOLED screen. A big yes for people like me who just can't scale up to 5.5 inch screen. The display is crisp and colors are bright. Pleasure to the eyes. 2. Beautiful design and very slim. 3. Expandable micro SD card slot. Much needed for a 16GB phone. 4. Great battery life(as of now). I have used the phone straight 2 days without charging with minimal display and 2G data connection. 5. 3GB RAM helps a lot with multitasking and games. 3G speed is also good, haven't used 4G sim in it yet. 4G option is there though. 6. Excellent camera and good features in camera. 7. FM Radio works well along with RDS if you use it. Cons: 1. Phone did experience lag when I removed the SD card and had 2 sims in it. 2. The micro USB charging port is the old design unlike the new one plus 2 port. Hence data transfer is not that fast when connected as an USB media device. 3. If it provided an option for dual sim then microSD card should have been a separate slot. This is the biggest con in this phone. 4. Fingerprint sensor would have done the trick. Though the phone is fine without it. Box comes with a humble size packing of the phone, screen guard already on the phone screen, silicon back cover, sim tray removal pin. No handsfree. 17k for this phone is pretty well priced, though you can get better specs in cheaper price but the look and feel of the phone is premium and you stand out of the micromax, mi, lenovo etc crowd. :)
5|This is my 6 Days review!! There is only one word to say for this mobile i.e EXCELLENT! The design is really awesome and this mobile comes with the screen guard and the silicon back case, so you don't need to worry about the scratches for back panel which is made of glass... There are many pros for this mobile and also some cons that I'm going to discuss with you right now: 1. Display is the main advantage for this mobile this is 5.0 inch, the colours are really very deep and the blacks are really black, full HD and very clear. 2. As this comes with 3 GB ram so you don't need to worry about the lags and delay responses. 3. We all know about the processor. 4. The design is awesome this comes with 6.9mm thickness where Iphone's thickness is 7.1mm. 5. One plus brand is right now equals to top brands like Apple. 6. The Operating sys is good, comes with oxygen based upon Android 5.1.1. Cons: 1. There are some bugs(errors) of oxygen OS, I think this will get rectified by sooner upgrade. 2. The battery is 2525mah however this will stay till the end of the day. I'll upgrade this feedback again...
5|Key features 1.Metal frame + glass/ceramic back 2.5" AMOLED display with 1080p resolution; 441ppi; Corning Gorilla Glass 3 3.Snapdragon 801 chipset; CPU: quad-core 2.3GHz Krait 400; Adreno 330 GPU; 3GB of RAM 4.13MP main camera with a LED flash, phase-detection auto-focus; 1080p video capture at 30fps 5.8MP front-facing camera, 1080p at 30fps video recording 6.Oxygen 2.1 OS based on Android 5.1.1 Lollipop 7.16GB of built-in storage; microSD expansion slot 8.Dual SIM, LTE Cat.4, Wi-Fi 802.11n, Bluetooth 4.0, GPS, FM radio, microUSB 9.Dual-microphone active noise canceling 10.Attractive price tag 11.2,525mAh non-removable battery Main disadvantages 1.Non-removable battery and no quick charging support 2.Connectivity lacks dual-band Wi-Fi and NFC 3.No 64-bit processor --------------------------------- Design and build quality: --------------------------------- OnePlus X is a step back from the company's sole focus on the specifications and it shifts the focus towards the design. And you can definitely see the effort OnePlus invested in designing the X by just taking a look at the stunning Onyx version. Both the glass and ceramic flavors of the OnePlus X have an anodized metal frame with 17 micro cut grooves running along the edges. The cuts are fine and give the sides a serrated finish making them inherently grippy. The front on both phones is covered by a 2.5D Gorilla Glass 3 - quite a popular choice lately, which creates the illusion of a thinner profile. The regular black onyx version has its back made out of glass with curved edges that flow gently into the metal sides. The ceramic flavor looks almost the same, but the edges are not curved but chamfered. Handling the OnePlus X is a lovely experience and the grip is very good thanks to the etched metal frame. The phone is very compact, lightweight and offers surprisingly thin screen bezels. The OnePlus X is slippery in hand but the frame helps the grip, it fits nice in the hand, does great for one-handed operations and we had a great time playing with the phone. ---------- Display: ---------- The OnePlus X packs a 5-inch AMOLED display, which is a great treat for such an affordable mid-ranger. It's a high-quality panel of 1080p resolution, which delivers 441ppi of pixel density. While not record-breaking numbers, individual pixels are nonetheless indistinguishable to the naked eye and so is the Diamond PenTile matrix. You're not going to see pixels on this screen and thanks to the AMOLED tech that's built-in, the panel enjoys inky-deep blacks and unmatched vividness to colors. When it comes to maximum brightness, the OnePlus X wouldn't go as high as some other AMOLED phones but it's quite alright and only flagship segment phones do better. It's actually around the same level as the HTC One A9 and this one while not being very bright to begin with, has twice the price tag. The minimum brightness on the OnePlus X is only 3.3nits, which is to say that using it in dimly lit environments will be easy on your eyes. ----------------- Display test: ----------------- | 50% brightness | 100% brightness | Black, cd/m2 White, cd/m2 Contrast ratio Black, cd/m2 White, cd/m2 Contrast ratio OnePlus X 0.00 175 ? 0.00 340 ? HTC One A9 - 110 ? - 366 ? Apple iPhone 6s 0.10 148 1542 0.36 536 1481 OnePlus Two 0.16 180 1139 0.30 399 1334 Moto G 3rd gen - - - 0.53 539 1017 Xiaomi Mi 4c 0.08 121 1613 0.28 452 1609 Motorola Moto X Play 0.23 343 1498 0.41 620 1520 Sony Xperia Z5 compact 0.10 106 1060 0.65 680 1053 ----------------- Performance: ----------------- The OnePlus X runs on a Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 chipset with 3GB of LPDDR3 RAM. On paper, this might not seem so exciting but again, this isn't exactly a flagship device. The OnePlus X is actually quite impressive in terms of performance. Snapdragon 801 might seem long in the tooth now but being an 800 series chipset it still packs a punch and handily blows the Snapdragon 615 (Oppo R7), seen on some of the rival devices, out of the water. The phone worked smoothly and apps ran quickly.
5|Awesome phone in this price segment and I will not discuss the technical specifications again as you all can get that easily on the Web and many of you are not even interested in it. It's obvious that no phone is perfect in all aspects but one should be firm on his/her own criteria. First, monitor how do you use your phone and what are your needs and then choose the respective hardware. This phone is targeted on moderate users who care more about style and quality (not for hardcore gamers) . Don't reject this piece of tech on the below criteria - - By comparing it's camera with it's big brother OP2 and S6 like flagships as they have high end optics hardware (OIS, bigger sensors of the same megapixel powers etc) at their respective prices. - Due to some software glitches (SD card etc) which have already been acknowledged by company and has assured the owners for the patches. - Due to absence of NFC (and accessories like handsfree) as its very hard to assemble such a beast in this price bracket and for Indian consumers it must not be a deal breaker as there are no trending NFC utilities for the payments at present. Apart from this the performance of a device matters a lot on how you configure it rather than the hardware/software only. Oxygen OS is stupendous even in its current state however it's under continuous refinement and will be more efficient in future. It's current functionality can be rated between Cyanogen and Stock Android. I would like to thank Oneplus to build this beautifully carved phone. In addition to this they have taken care of small things that matters a lot at least for me and they are - + Phone comes with prefixed screen protector to use the phone right out of the box. + Phone includes a silicon case to protect its back glass from smudges and scratches however you can buy another case of your choice later. It also helps to grip this super slippery phone better. + Phone includes it's pc software within it and you need not to browse Oneplus website for that. While you will connect the phone to your pc you will see a Oneplus driver ROM that can be used to install phone's driver. I have given away an activated INVITE in the headline section. Any lucky reader can use it. Good luck.
5|My experience moving from nexus 4, Battery Performace I would give would give a 4 star for this since I have used it only for 2 days. But find that it has better power saving capacity than Nexus 4 Screen, Definitely great screen and wide viewing angle and I can use it under bright sun OS, I have customized using Google Now Launcher and trying to check with other launchers also, as of now I have it exactly like a vanilla Google device. Camera The camera has some noise which, I believe can be rectified with some changes in the firmware, if this can be done then, OPX would be able to decent images. I Would not rate it a real cracker of a shooter like high-end devices. so rating would be 2.5 here (if the noise issue is resolved it can move to 3.2 as rating ) otherwise it is a not a bad camera either, This one small compromise one has to make, Gaming, I am not a gaming freak, I would not be able to mark it, I mostly use it as a developer and I find it very performance intensive Usage and Handling Ease of handling is great since it can be operated with a single hand. The device is a well-built one and easy to use wth one hand. I do not like large screen device so decided to use this. Overall review People who are looking for moving from Older device to a new one with 5-inch screen device, your search should end over here. This is a good device for people with smaller palm and shorter fingers. For me, Nexus5 and Nexus5x were on the list but found that this is more optimal on budget and performance, only that I am not having a fingerprint sensor which in my opinion is not required when the device has an? HAL sensor and OnePlusX use this very well so that we can place our hand over top portion of the screen and see that display gets activated which would enable us to see the latest updates.
5|First of all.. Thanks to Amazon for delivering the product within 24 hours.. That was a real surprise.. Coming back to the product now.. I bought the mobile only because I received an invite.. I had a pretty good mobile in hand now and this one was an additional phone.. Seriously!! Why do i meed a second phone?? Damn.. However.. As soon as opened the box.. It felt like a premium phone.. The material of the box is way too fancy and i felt them for the first time..especially the red part of the package.. The phone is great.. A good looking phone.. Amazing display, decent camera and awesome performance.. Go for it without any doubt.. It wont disappoint you.. The only thing that irritates me is the lack of backlight on the capacitive touch.. Really annoying.. Apart from that it's a great fit for your hand.. But you guys gotta take this next to brand like sony,samsung,apple.. Dont compare them with xioami or micromax.. OnePlus is far better and globally acclaimed brand!!
5|I am an average user like most of us and I am very satisfied with this phone. I use the dual sim function (Sim 1- call +data, Sim 2 - Call only). The internal memory is adequate if, you don't store music in your phone, even if you decide to do, with all the useful apps installed, I have more 7 gigs of storage left. For fotos and videos, use the Cloud Storage. The 3 GB RAM does show its might. The phone virtually has no lags or shortcomings even with 20-27 apps running in the background. Network reception is good with crystal clear voice. Yet to test the 4G, but 3G is good enough and does not drain battery rapidly as with other Android phones. The camera is lame, especially if you are used to Lumia 1520 or Iphone 5/6. Battery life is good. I am in sales and obviously talk a lot and with two sims, it can only be left to imagination. With that said, the battery lasts entire day. Charging from 5%- 100 takes little over 2 Hrs. Recently, I ordered Moto 360 Gen 1 from Amazon.com which, to my surprise, connects seamlessly with oneplus x. All my work email notification, Whatsapp, fb, twitter works like a charm. I have switched from iphone and windows lumia and love this android experience customized to my needs.
5|I am writing this after 2 weeks of usage. I am not a gamer, uses smartphone mainly for emails, shopping, social networking and instant messaging with occasional use of Youtube. The first thing I loved about the phone is it's design and size. I have small hands and it fits perfectly. Display is great, got some orange tint but still great. Camera is OK for this price range. Not that great but good one. One plus should have done better with battery. It lasts for a day and some but can be a problem for a heavy use. I guess a Marshmallow update can fix this. I got a new update for Oxygen UI but it was still based on Lollypop. They provide back cover and protective sticker out of the box. No earphones. Overall great experience so far. No heating issue which is a plus. I guess an under powered processor has got something to do with that. Only problem with this mobile is it's not water resistant. I think it's a must have feature for mid range mobiles now. Also the power button is on right side and device switched off accidentally couple of times. It think we can manage it by practice though. If you value looks as much as performance, go for this one :)
3|It's a good phone but not very good i received mine last evening and i would start with the packaging , its awesome as we all know it already has screen guard installed and phone cover is also provided in the box. Build: nice looks feels like blend of iphone and xperia but its slim and light wight Screen: its beautiful crisp display Camera: no HDR in front cam and very basic camera, if you are a camera lover , you wont like this beauty much Memory: its giving you around 10 GB of space right out of the box and after installing few apps and clicking some pics and shooting videos im sure one would need either OTG or shift data to computer SIM: thought its a dual sim phone but the company is smart they gave u an option either use a sim card and memory card or dual sim not all 3 would work all together There is noting special out of the box thing in this cell phone oxygen OS is not as good as stock android some features are missing and yes some features are added as well like gesture and the one i liked is wake on double tap at the price of 17000 the buttons does not have back-lit light no head phones is a drawback though
5|Pros: Stunning looks, ultimate browsing experience both in wifi & LTE, form factor, size, User based profiles, Camera (rear+ front) in proper light conditions, ease of handling notifications, touch response, crispy & crystal clear display, voice quality, signal reception, Oxygen OS, no heating issues observed. Cons: Storage (SD card) not identified in storage settings, however it can be seen in file manager where all types of formats can be stored and viewed, but the apps are not moved to SD card from internal storage., Camera appears to give blur images in low light conditions and camera flash is not appearing in normal capturing mode which sometimes feels annoying. Battery seem to deliver 6-7 hrs while heavy downloading & uploading of internet usage over wifi, however on moderate usage, the battery stands to deliver full day. I hope, these small issues will be handled by one plus team during there future update and bug fixing. Despite of cons listed above, the pros are much dominant for making recommendations for purchase at this cost of 17K.
4|Great buy for the price and features offered. PROS 1. The phone undoubtedly is the best in class for product design. The looks rival any smartphone under popular flagship brands (Apple, Motorola and the likes) but at a price considerably lower than most such phones. Looks pretty similar to an IPhone 4/4s for almost half the price. 2. The AMOLED screen is a great add-on to this model in comparison to the other two phones by OnePlus (One/Two). You would rarely find a phone with this display at such a price. The black in the display brings out other colours vibrantly. 3. Expandable memory slot up to 128 gb. Not found in OnePlus One. 4. 13mp back and 8mp front camera. 5. 5" screen size. Though this may be disliked by some, it makes it really easy to manoeuver the phone as compared to the new generation phones which would typically require two hands to use the phone. This display size makes it easier for one to use it with just one hand and the 148 gm weight is an added bonus to it thereby not tiring your hand in comparison to other phones. CONS 1. Though the phone boasts of a 13mp camera, it slightly under performs in low light situations. Maximum video quality is up to 1080p while you may get up to 4K in other phones under the Xiaomi and Motorola flagship. However, for any regular user, the camera is pretty decent giving out decent quality selfies and photos for regular Facebook/Instagram uploading. 2. The phone does slip off even the slightest angle due to a complete glass casing on the front and back. Fingerprints is also an issue here (if you're bothered by it). So be prepared to clean the screen often. 3. The phone does tend to heat up from the back during charging/multitasking. However, the rubberised protective casing provided with the phone solves for it. The casing also helps avoid the issue of slippage. However if your phone falls, the gorilla glass and casing may save the screen, but the brunt is borne by the metal band in the middle causing dents and scratches on it. 4. Whites in the display tend to have a more bluish tinge and photo quality suffers when exported to other devices. However the AMOLED display gives you pretty clean and wowing images on the device itself which is unparalleled to the other phones under the OnePlus flagship. 5. Does not support LTE bands 12, 17. While this may not be an issue if you're an Indian user as it supports all Indian networks, you could run into 4G issues if you travel a lot to other countries. The network connectivity also suffers slightly in comparison to the OnePlus One/Two where the X may lose out on network in areas where the other two are still getting connectivity. VERDICT Great phone to buy if you're a regular user who requires a phone for calls, messaging, Facebook/Whatsapp/Instagram and the occasional gaming. However if you're looking for some serious performance or intend to replace it with your cameras/gaming consoles, I would suggest you look elsewhere such as Xiaomi/ Motorola.
5|I've been using OnePlus X since 3 weeks and I'd like to share my experience. The phone is total value for money. It's one of the best phones you can get in this budget. Design of OnePlus X feels so premium, it looks twice as costlier than it actually is. Full HD AMOLED display is like the icing on the cake. It's pretty powerful for a phone in this price range. Good old Snapdragon 801 doesn't disappoint at all. 3 GB RAM would be sufficient for most of tasks. Except for few earlier bugs (which have been fixed in the latest updates), Oxygen OS is good for those who prefer stock Android-like experience. It's highly customizable too. The good news is that Android Marshmallow update has been announced by OnePlus for all their phones. Battery life is decent, but nothing spectacular here. Camera is what you'd expect in any midrange smartphone. It's pretty fast but the quality could have been better. Still a great phone overall and anyone looking for a midrange smartphone should definitely consider this one.
4|I have spent a week with the device and i want to share some of my thoughts here. Performance: The general performance is good, this includes, browsing internet, using apps,sending mails you know the usual stuff. It's super smooth and i never experienced any sort of stutter or slow down. While watching high definition youtube videos i noticed massive struttering, but it went away after i scrolled though the video. I Did notice some strutters during HD video playback as well. The gaming performance is not that good. overall gaming performance is disappointing. Battery: I got one day usage battery backup. Most of the time got 4hrs SOT. Overall Battery performance is satisfactory Build Quality: looks very stylish. but the glass back is a finger print magnet and it makes the phone very slippery. It's good that one plus included a gel cover and screen protector, but still the phone really feels like it could just jump out of your hand. The phone is very compact making it easy for one handed operation. Display: A major plus for the device, the display is just excellent, i didnt notice any black light bleeding, the blacks are deep and the colors are very vibrant. I love the display Call Quality: In noisy places like train and traffic it was infact very low, Sound through speakers are passable. so to sum it up, very low in noisy environment decent in quiet environments. Software: I really wish one plus stayed with CM, the oxygen OS is just near stock android but very buggy, I'm not able to use the Micro SD card even-though it shows up in the files app, i'm not able to copy or move files to it let alone installing apps. USDD messages are not getting displayed after a call gets over(a very annoying bug for Prepaid users). Camera: Low light images are not that good, but in well-lit areas, this phone can take some surprisingly good photos. Camera is just fine no issues with that. Sound Quality: Out of the box the sound quality is quite disappointing, through the headphones as well as speakers. Also for me sound is coming though only one of the speakers. You need to tweak it a lot inorder to get the desired sound quality when listening to music through headphones. so for me this is a utter disappointment. To sum it up: This is a good phone, but right now it is plagued with lot of software issues.
4|Received the one plus x the very next day and best part I had opted for normal delivery, impressive stuff by Amazon. The phone was beautifully packed about the contents well u get the charger, pin to open the Sim slot, booklets, I was surprised to find a silicone soft cover for the back that was nice the phone cones with a scratch guard mist be careful while removing the front plastic as the guard might peel out too. The only disappointment was there was no ear phones otherwise everything was good just as u find with an I phone packing. As for the phone it's simply amazing as good as any top phones in the market yes it's a bit lower configuration compared to these top phones but realistically who needs that much. Amazing phone for just 17000 is a superb deal. Quality is top notch. The phone does get a bit heated but that is not that big a deal luckily for me everything works and during start up initially the phone dint connect to my WiFi but don't worry once the set up is complete it does connect. My recommendation is buy the phone it's worth it. Camera and the resolution is very good.
4|Invites for free: IND1-C0D6-A4A3-6CBF It's just been one day since I got the phone. I have explored most of the phones features and am definitely excited. I received an update when I turned on the phone for the first time. Both the Amazon and oneplus packing was excellent The charger and cable is of excellent quality and coloured brilliantly The oxygen OS received an update yesterday itself. The OS is simple with no bloatwares as specified though I wished if had cyanogen mod . I wish oneplus came up with its own gallery app. I ran the Antutu benchmark which gave a score of 40800 which had me satisfied. The performance with game was excellent and video in 1080p was as expected. The front camera is really good with 8mp and rear camera is equally good 13mp. The battery is pretty decent although it could have more mah. The setback of this phone is dual sim or one sim and memory card. I badly needed dual sim and memory card however I am managing with no memory card now. For now there is no heating issue and I guess there isn't any in this phone. The design is awesome but hope the phone build is good as its aa glass body. Thanks oneplus for the scratchguard and silicone protector which are decent though not excellent
4|Awesome product, not so awesome delivery by amazon - So I got my onyx last thursday and i really like it so far. it has great features and looks great. the camera quality is very nice. in a nutshell it is a steal in this price. the only downside (hopefully temporary) is that the SD card is not recognizable in the upgraded software version, i.e. once you update your phone then the SD card is not recognized by the phone resulting in you not being able to move your apps to the SD card etc. but as far as i have read it on online blogs/communities, this is a software issue and one plus dev team is working toward the resolution. Amazon delivery: IT WAS NOT A GREAT EXPERIENCE. Reasons enlisted below: 1) Product took longer than i had expected to be delivered (4 days ETA is slightly more than what I expected, though it's okay) 2) Amazon delivery personnel need to understand that if someone is ordering a 17000/- phone and checking on CoD then that doesn't mean I will pay in cash (no one keeps so much cash around). I intended to pay by card but the delivery guy did not have the right machine to swipe my card. The guy did not panic about it though, rather he called someone from his company with a machine and swiped the card to complete the transaction. But this is something Amazon needs to take care of (like other vendors).
5|Here is my 1 week review - The phone looks superb. The metal body gives a premium look and the protective cover provided with the box is also solid. The only thing that might bother people is the screen is a finger print magnet but it can be ignored - Talking about the screen, it is breath taking. AMOLED at its best. There are situations at night, where I reduce the brightness to 0% as even at about 10% it is too bright - Snapdragon processor with 3GB RAM works like a charm. Apps like google maps loads in seconds and have never experienced any lag or freeze even with 10-12 apps running in the background - Coming to the battery, it will lasts a day with moderate usage on 3G/WiFi (100% at 9 AM, 20% at 12 midnight) - The speakers are also great and is loud enough even at 60% volume - Camera is also good provided the price range the phone is in. Low light photography is also good. The front camera is one of the best there is for mid range phones - Lastly Oxygen OS gives a near vanilla experience and there are no bloatware which is great. Eagerly waiting for Android M
5|Firstly the OPX which falls in the mid range price segment does not feel mid range when you hold this phone. The aesthetics feels premium because of the glass panel in the rear and metal finish on the sides. One plus ships the phone with a screen protector and transparent case to protect the phone from accidental falls. This is a good move by the company given there aren't any accessories available in the market yet. Camera: The best part of the camera is the lightening fast shutter speed. Clicks in a flash. Camera photos come out good with enough detail, though a bit noisy Battery : The battery life is average which lasts for little over a day with 2-3 hours of browsing on WiFi and 1hour of calling. I haven't faced any heating issues with the phone so far. Build quality : Build quality is top-notch, the metal frame looks good and provides great grip, while the onyx glass rear are what makes the OnePlus X look stunning, however the navigation keys should have been backlit Display: The display is excellent: it isn't among the brightest AMOLED displays but offers very deep blacks, excellent viewing angles and sunlight legibility. OS: Oxygen OS is a clean and light Android skin, which let's you enjoy the pure Android experience and the added extras such as the Ambient screen and unlocking gestures; The quad-core Snapdragon 801 is still quite a capable processor and a relevant performer. The 3GB of RAM will make multi-taskers happy; Speaker :Loudspeaker performance is about Average. Video : Video player supports all video formats but AC3 audio and subtitles are a no-go. The 1080p video samples are subpar and comparatively are not as good as the ones by the competition Audio : Audio quality is decent with an external amplifier, but quickly turns to below average when the headphones are plugged in; Conclusion : OnePlus X will be a memorable mid-ranger everyone will want. It's an excellent piece of tech, a snappy performer with a lively hi-res AMOLED screen, with proper camera experience and all-round connectivity package.
4|This is perhaps best mobile I ever had with few short comings which can be ignored for most users unless they are very important aspect for them. Pros. 1)Looks r too good. 2)Very premium feel. 3)Excellent form factor. Easy to hold, handle and operate with one hand 4)Screen display quality, video play quality super excellent. Thanks to amoled HD screen it also beat the quality of some of the super amoled phones.Compared the video display quality of One Plus One X vs. Samsung J7 and Intex Aqua Ace (Both has Super Amoled) I found the OnePlus X display better than respective super amoled phones of Samsung and Intex. 5)13 mp Rear Camera captures decent quality pictures. Front camera (8mp) too good for high quality selfies 6) Voice quality good on calls. Loud speaker quality is good. Cons. 1)Battery life poor. With just the screen display on battery reduces by 1% in every 3 minutes. This I observed while no battery consuming apps/features were active on phone i.e. wifi off, internet off, no gaming, no video playing, no audio playing ,without apps running in background,location disabled, maps off. Just the screen on. 2)Physical menu buttons are not back lit. It should have been there at this price point. 3)Oxygen OS needs improvement and should provide better customisation options. No self music player only the default google music player is provided 4)After having been MIUI user before this I find customisation lacking in Oxygen OS in One Plus phone. 5)Only 1 sim slot available if using SD card. So internal memory is only 16 GB and I got only 10 gb left. This is even though I have not installed heavy apps or stored heavy files. You are bound to use SD card.So effectively it is a single sim phone as most people will need SD card. I don't mind as of now as I carry two phones and do not intend to use 2 sims any soon on this phone. Wishlists for this phone which will not come true: 1)I wish they provided at least 3500 mah battery. 2)There are no lags observed yet though I have not installed any heavy games or apps yet, but with 17 k range Snapdragon Octacore processor should have been provided. 3)Finger print sensor could have been icing on the cake. This would have actually meant never settle as per one plus's brand promise. Overall verdict: This is a good buy if u like style, excellent display and performance combined.People with phones in similar price band are definitely repenting and wished they had bought OnePlusX and this feels good for the owner. Short comings like fast battery drain may be due to Oxygen OS issues and may be fixed to some extent by next Operating System update by the company. Overall satisfied
3|Good delivery by Amazon purchased on 10 Nov and on 12 Nov phone is delivered. Phone looks very good glass back panel really amazing but due to glass phone is little slippery. Display is amazing very bright and color look nice on display also text appears very crisp. Camera is nice both front and back,when flash is on while taking photos images appear to be more white and unnatural, also when using mode like HDR,beauty and clear image u cannot use flash. Performance is very nice no lags while using multiple apps. There is problem in keyboard while texting on WhatsApp some times keyboard stops typing even pressing buttons nothings typed to you have to close app and again open it to use keyboard which is frustrating. Also phone heats up a lot that to with minor usage also while charging phone heats up back panel and steel ream on side on phone gets very hot that you cannot hold it for to long without back cover. Thinking of replacing it due to heating problem. Other that heating and keyboard everything works fine phone looks very premium and very well priced.
4|Amazon and OnePlus are doing a great job in providing One of the finest smartphones. Yes, the invite system is a hurdle but it does give the exclusiveness that no other brand can provide. No Delivery in Noida, well that's a disappointment. Coming to the product i.e OnePlus X. The packaging of OnePlus is always Great. The box can be useful later also. The package Contains - The main device, Charging cable and adapter, Sim card slot pin (no cover for pin), transparent back cover and user guide manual. Looks - The phone is amazingly designed at 5 inches. Hold the phone to experience it. It feels premium and solid. Some users might think of the device being smaller in Size as the new standard size is 5.5 inches in the smartphone industry but it is still fine. The width perhaps is little less in comparison to Lumia and other similar phones. Oxygen OS - Being a user of Cyanogen, I'm pretty much impressed with the Oxygen OS. Clean, simple and user friendly. Camera - Front camera lives up to the expectations. 8 MP is enough for taking selfies. The angle is also sufficiently wide. The back camera boasts 13 megapixel. Of course, the camera needs to be tested in different conditions. Hence, the user will be the Best judge. Screen - 441 pixel per inch (ppi). Best in class. AMOLED screen. Corning Gorilla glass on both sides. Enough said. Sim/Memory - Sim Tray is provided as usual by OnePlus. Use it for either Dual Sim or one Sim and memory card for a maximum of 128 GB. Internal storage is 16 GB that gives 10.57 GB on the device for apps and other media files. Other specs include 3GB RAM, 5.1.1 Lollipop, Oxygen version 2.1.2, Snapdragon 801 2.3 Ghz processor. Also, there's OnePlus Radio which is an addition this time by Oneplus. The processor may seem outdated but performance wise it won't disappoint. The screen attracts a lot of fingerprints, so do get a screen protector. 4G LTE present. No NFC, no one uses it anyway, use Share It, SuperBeam etc. Overall, the phone looks great with superior performance. A very strong competitor at this price range. If the budget is 15-20k, go for this phone, if you do get an invite. Powerfully Beautiful. NeverSettle!
4|Hi,after using the phone for 3 days I would like to share with you all some aspects of the phone. Why the phone is best budget android phone? 1.Best screen quality 2.Nice camera 3.Responsive touch 4.Nice music quality 5.Right screen and overall phone size.Not so big and not so small. 6.WiFi connectivity- Thump's up ( Everything a moderate user needs) 7.Packaging- You will just fall in love with packaging of the phone.I have never seen such a systematic packaging.#Not even in the iphone Where there is still a scope for improvement? 1.Every time I found lag while playing high end games.Company should look into the matter and provide for updates. 2.I would not suggest preinstalled launcher.Instead install other launchers for smoother functioning. 3.OS-One plus should develop their oxygen OS fast.Motorola's stock android is much better. 4.No file manager.Gallery is not there. 5.Battery life is matter of distress I would say. 6.No headphones 7.Most hilarious thing is you can't move apps to SD card.OS update needed. ONE PLUS Please do something Overall phone is a nice choice who are looking for a phone under 25000.(Even better than the one plus two).But still there is a long way to go for one plus.
5|I got a hands-on on this phone. It definitely has a better screen (AMOLED 1080p at 5 inch, 441ppi) than Oneplus 2 (and lights up on receiving notification), that too on such a low price of 16999/-. The blacks are truly black and the colors really pop out. SD 801 is more than sufficient for normal use (I didn't notice any lag, it was smoother than Oneplus 2 though very less apps were installed at that time). Although it is not for heavy gaming. Design and form factor is excellent. Light, compact and easily operable with one hand. Also, unlike Oneplus 2 the phone doesn't heat up except during gaming (credits to a less powerful processor). It has FM radio again unlike Oneplus 2. But, camera is only average when compared to Oneplus 2. Speakers and headphone volume+quality are inferior to Oneplus 2. The back is made of glass so it is a fingerprint magnet and may break if dropped. (Use the silicon cover included in the box) So overall considering the price, for me it may be better than Oneplus 2.
4|Review just based on 30 min of usage Order & Deliver - As I expected it was available by 2:00 PM on 5th Nov 15 and able to order with Invite. Product received by 12:30 PM 6th Nov 15 Look - Awesome, can't believe it is 5", premium look Display - Cool AMOLED screen Specs - You all know on this or search :) Camera - It is Nice (added an indoor pic) and few screenshots OS - Almost stock OS Available Space - 10.19 GB after updating OS and 13 apps updated. Battery was almost 90% and downloaded the 160MB on WiFi battery dropped 3% I have felt little warm after downloading and updating the OS(took 7 min to update the OS) but it was far better than Nexus 6. Started updating the pre-installed apps and (battery dropped to 80%) Could be better if it is packed with - 3000mah battery or above, 2 Active SIMs + 32 GB atleast (currently One SIM + User Memory or 2 active SIMs with default memory), I don't think invite system should needed to buy this phone. I believe it is just meeting my expectations considering all aspects. Overall Good buy
2|Before one plus x I was using Moto G 1st gen, Operating system of Motorola is far better than Oxygen os offered by One Plus, after buying this phone I realised that high numbers of hardware specifications do not matter, but better integration of hardware and software is key smoth user experience, this phone lacks good software, resulting into poor user experience
5|I have received the product on time. Good Service by Amazon. I haven't used completely this phone but the camera is really amazing. Both Back and front are really good. Touch wise is also very smooth. Overall Good product to buy. Just concern is battery which is 2525 compared to other phones is less. But until now its going on well. Hope in future goes well to.
5|Awesome phone at an awesome price. For 17,000 you won't find any phone at the present moment which offers you a 1080p AMOLED screen with a metal band and a near stock Android experience. The screen is great; better than the OnePlus 2 and OPO because it's AMOLED. The battery could have been slightly bigger but still the battery life is very good. On some days, the battery drains fast when it is on standby but most of the days it offers good standby time. On a daily usage basis, this phone would easily last a day for moderate users. There are some minor issues like lack of 802.11 ac wifi and a 5 GHz band, but that isn't nearly as important as having an awesome display and a magnificent glass-metal build quality. On a more expensive phone it would be, but for this price range, I would make the trade-off. If you can get an invite and want to buy a mid-range device go for this phone as it is the best in its price bracket. Thanks, OnePlus for a great product.
3|I bought this phone just a day before yesterday and I am already facing the problems with this phone. 1. The device is heating even on a minimal usage of 10 minutes. 2.When I am calling someone through SPEAKER mode, the person is not able to hear my voice once I am OFF the speaker mode. The only way the other person can hear is through the Speaker mode itself, the other person cannot hear when I talk normally. I have got a replacement for this product and I am facing the same issues with the phone after update. Before the update it was fine. I am just waiting for the new update to fix this issue as the OnePlus customer service is not accepting this as their fault as no one has reported this issue yet! I have contacted the Customer Support of OnePlus, they've suggested me few steps thinking it might help. Like Clearing cache etc, but in vain. So had to go for a Replacement. Hoping for a resolution with the replacement at least. If not, had to go for the Refund.
4|Pros: Design is excellent, Build Quality is awesome, Clarity stands out better than any available smart phones at this range , Battery Backup is Standard. CPU Speed is good no lag, browsing is very easy without any lag because of phone good config. Cons: Beep tone which is used for call waiting is very low so we need to use some third party apps to get the the notification during conversation. You will not get balance information in screen like other phones reflects if you are using prepaid card Memory card works like a storage area you have to move photos from phone to card when you feel phone memory consumed much. Applications installed in phone memory. Conclusion : Its difficult to find phone with 3GB Ram and excellent look like One Plus X so if you are okay with cons go for it otherwise wait for a better one. Please mail me if you have any doubts before buying please clarify with me my id is jifinma@gmail.com
4|Overall a very good phone.. Greatest plus is the unmatched build quality at this price range.. No other phone at this price range is comparable.. For: Display, Looks, Basic lag free OS and performance. Against: Average battery life, OK decent camera, minor heating problem.. Some other small software glitches there... Wonderful looking phone but slim and slippery back, little prone to scratches.. Great phone for a mid range user for day today activities.. Worthy phone at this price range for a mid range average to moderate user.. Nothing more.. Not recommended for heavy users or high end gamers.. Have 3 invites shareable... Use them when needed.. Have a great time with your phone.. http://onepl.us/IN1E-5E96-6C8E-312B http://onepl.us/IN16-8F3E-0B44-D329 http://onepl.us/INE5-6FD9-6F8F-415D Have a great time guys, Enjoy!!!
3|It's okish phone....although feeling betrayed as it's the toned down version of SD801 i.e AA version. Games lags a lot, forget about high intensity games subway surfer lags. SD card slot is not working, any solutions? Do i need to return the phone? Most exciting part is the screen, i loved it , super stylish phone. Decent camera
3|Hello friends, I had bought this mobile and use only for 26 days, as no doubt about the company Oneplus,. Overall I like in this handset is its display and its built quality, apart from this below are the various reason why I had return the mobile, a) It gets Overheating. b) At time of on going call, some applications get automatically started in background or making my active call on hold and get connected someone else. 3) At normal swipe lock, the lock get automatically open when I used to kept phone in my pocket, even though double tap was active. 4) Call hearing , i.e is the speaker is average, not at normal level. 5) While opening some 2 to 3 applications the phone lags. 6) Battery was average, get better after software upgradation. That's all my friends, but if you looking for budgeted phone with good display and built quality than go for it (Oneplus X) or else go for Lenovo vibe S1. Thanks Amazon.
3|Hello friends, I had bought this mobile and use only for 26 days, as no doubt about the company Oneplus,. Overall I like in this handset is its display and its built quality, apart from this below are the various reason why I had return the mobile, a) It gets Overheating. b) At time of on going call, some applications get automatically started in background or making my active call on hold and get connected someone else. 3) At normal swipe lock, the lock get automatically open when I used to kept phone in my pocket, even though double tap was active. 4) Call hearing , i.e is the speaker is average, not at normal level. 5) While opening some 2 to 3 applications the phone lags. 6) Battery was average, get better after software upgradation. That's all my friends, but if you looking for budgeted phone with good display and built quality than go for it (Oneplus X) or else go for Lenovo vibe S1. Thanks Amazon.
4|This is the sexiest phone of the 2015,as per performance very smooth and regards to look very attractive slim as I ever think of as regards to camera is very bad in clearity,u ll actually enjoy amoloid display,and not sounding good in d headphones,external speakers r quait loud ,must by this beauty,I recommend to use back cover provided in the box.
5|gr8 and amazing product in this price range . screen quality is too good then one plus one an all other phones in this range. camera quality is amazing in low light n day light. design is amazing feels premium. battery charge upto 40-50 % in half hour. no lags smooth multitasking. and overall phone is excellent .. i m happy to have it...full satisfaction. some pictures of one plus x in day light n night
3|The theme continues with the OnePlus X, which is actually the firm’s cheapest smartphone to date.The phone is good but so little issue when you want so used flash on camera the setting of the flash no available it is automatically give or some times you chooses camera setting but when you closed the camera the setting restore as old one and phone look is good and also There’s no optical image stabilisation but there is phase detection auto focus. The results are good but generally not great and we’ve seen much better 13Mp cameras. At the front is an 8Mp camera, which is good but not quite as detailed and sharp as we normally find at this resolution.The OnePlus X is the best value smartphone of the year. We love the premium design in a smaller form factor to the firm’s other phones. Software is a strong point and you get a gorgeous screen. However, cuts had to be made somewhere and the X is lacking features such as NFC, 11ac and Wi-Fi.
4|It's a device which is perfectly fine to carry in your pocket and to hold in your hand. You can use it with one hand. 3gb RAM is gud. Advance features in phone like finger print,contact less payment system etc are missing. Sound quality if connected by headfone definetly needs immediate attention by one plus manufacturers..its not to the mark as per the price range of this phone. Camera quality is v gud but bearable in nite..editing of pictures is very gud feature although. Some video calling applications does not work as it should be..its a nice android device and you can play games on this..touch is very gud and while using it will give u a feel of premium class phone as 6s. Using of sim tray is as smooth as in iPhone..quality of charger cable is v gud. Not able to understand the strategy behind not providing compatible headsets with device. If one plus people address some of the above issues it could be the blockbuster
5|Thanks one plus team, in creating a piece of art. This phone is absolute beast with looks,of course! A customer gets the best of every manufacturer. Amoled screen from Samsung, Camera from Sony etc. , Chinese manufacturing expertise and obviously at an affordable price. Thanks once again Oneplus team in creating this phone.
2|Looks good and feels good. In the year of bulky and broad mobile seems a actual mobile size is back. The quality is good with the below inherent fall outs 1. Camera no physical setting possible. If you want HDR and clear image you have to forget flash and if you need flash then forget the HDR and clear image. 2. No gallery/album for the photo viewing. Have to either use google photo or files viewer, which sadly doesn't provide all the ease and functionality of gallery. 3. Data connection drop is frequent even in the high network area the data suddenly stops working. Either have to use flight mode and if that doesn't work then need to restart the phone. 4. The phone is supposed to be 16GB inbuilt however Oxygen OS and basic android OS knocks of nearly 5.5 GB for its use. Thus you have to use external storage for apps. 5. After a while the phone GUI seems unresponsive or there is delay response.
4|Nice mobile to replace my Samsung Galaxy S2. Overall I am happy with the performance. Below are my comments: Pros: 1. No heating problem 2. No sluggishness in accessing multiple apps 3. Best price Cons: 1. Not possible to have dual sims as well as memory card. You may have to sacrifice either one sim or the memory card. 2. USSD problem is there. I am using Airtel nano sim but not getting notifications after messaging/calls. I wonder how they released the product without fixing this critical issue. Being a prepaid user, it is a serious issue. Hope this will get rectified asap. 2. No inbuilt Voice/call recorder. Need to manage with external app from Playstore. 3. Notifications in the app icon is missing. 4. Headphone not available in the kit. Hope the above points (except point no. 1), will be rectified in the next OS update. Overall, it is worth buying this mobile that is no way inferior to reputed/branded smartphones.
4|IT WORKS ONLY ONE SIM & ONE MEMORY CARD (OR) TWO SIMS ONLY . IT COULD NOT USE AT A TIME TWO SIMS & MEMORY CARD AT A TIME.WHEN PHONE CHARGING PHONE GIVING SHOCK (EARTHING).BATTERY DRAIN GETTING LOW TO FAST. HEAD PHONES NOT AVAILABLE . THERE IS NO WEBSITE FOR PHONE REGISTRATION & SOFTWARE'S DOWNLOADING & WARRANTY DETAILS ALSO IN ONLINE.
4|VFM (4.3 Out Of 5.0) The unboxing was a warm welcome for me as the packaging was really nifty! The device itself is crazy thin and is like water that would slip off on anything that's why a case is must!! The display is eye catching and is of #teamcrispy with accurate to slightly over toned colors..... Double tap to wake happens most of the times though accidentally and ambient display works only when it wants to. Rear camera is above average, front cam would have been better and battery is good for moderate user, mediocre for moderate to heavy user and disappointing for a heavy user! Performance on the other hand is snappy if you are moderate to heavy user but it lags in high end gaming and plenty of RAM makes it easy for multitasking. Software is almost vanilla stock android experiance with a bunch of tweaks that only go in the favour of the device!!!!!!!
2|Phone is stuck on a DND mode i.e. priority interruptions mode. So there is no ringer or beep when a call comes in. There is no priority support easily available to sort out the problem. How can you run a company with no proper support. This is when i am pretty handy technically with phones. I have factory reset in all ways possible.
3|Good build is good and looks premium. Oxygen OS with 3GB RAm performs smoothly. However you will get lagging while playing asphalt like games. It getting heat horribly. Its 13MP camera pics looks like 5MP camera pics. SD card wont detected by Apps. All media have to be moved manually and all apps will be installed on phone phone only. My biggest disappointment is battery. I bought this phone on 6th Nov. I tested for 10 days. I never got more than 10 hours with medium usage. I had charge twice in a day. I tried using greenify app as suggested by one user in oneplus forum, but not much improvement. Morning 8AM 100% battery will become 10% by 3:00PM with mixed use. Starting itself if we have poor battery back, it will be a big after sometime, moreover it has non removable battery. If you are light user and battery back up is not your problem, this is the best phone under 20K category.
4|Guys got this phone today. Everything is awesome but it has some serious issues. The first one being that SD card even though inserted will not appear in storage. The second one being hearing. This phone gets hot on the top left corner while multitasking. Hopefully both these issues will be resolved with a software update.
4|OnePlus X Unboxing - Onyx Edition---- desi unboxing (check the link) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C7sGbK79Ehw description - The external appearance is one of the main selling points for the new OnePlus X. The phone will be in two versions - Onyx and a limited Ceramic edition. The phone has a 5-inch display with 1080p resolution and 441ppi. OnePlus X is its quad-core Snapdragon 801 chipset. Not that this silicon is not powerful enough to run the new Oxygen interface on top of Android 5.1.1 Lollipop, but it is somewhat aging in the sense that it is not a 64-bit endeavor. Other than that, OnePlus equipped the X with a generous 3 GB RAM amount, and 16 GB of storage, expandable via a microSD card, the slot for which has dual SIM card tray, so it's either two nano SIMs, or one SIM and one memory card, bummer. The OnePlus X comes with a 13 MP rear camera, and a 8 MP selfie-taker.
4|High End Design @ Low end Cost First thing you will notice about this phone is the design. And you will keep noticing the same even after one month of use. Pros: - Phone looks very premium - The size of the phone is just right to be pocketable. - AMOLED screen is just perfect - Battery is adequate that easily does the days job - The cover supplied with the phone was great to use it with the new phone, without putting any much flab - Good cell reception and sound clarity Cons: - Camera, Low light performance is bad - Software, was glitchy earlier, though they fixed it. Will still prefer Cyanogen on it. - Accessories are just too costly for the range this phone comes from. - Speakers on the phone should have been better. Great usable phone that could have been better with better camera, software, and maybe some hardware.
5|The phone was delivered to me within 24 hours of order, without extra pay. I ordered it on the 5th at 2 p.m. and it was delivered by 9.30 am on 6th Nov. I then opened the box and was surprised to see the box had a silicone case and the scratch guard was already on the mobile. This saved me time to walk to a nearby store. Pros 1. The picture quality is breathtaking, the selfie camera is also very cool. I compared with a colleague of mine who owns a iphone6 and the image on oneplusX is far better. 2. The build is very sleek and sturdy. 3. The speed of the processor is very fast. I played the FTS 15 football game for 8 hours and only half my battery life was utilized. 4. It can be used as a dual SIM(nano) phone or One SIM plus 1 micro SD card Cons 1. The phone heats up marginally with continuous use 2. There are no great Apps that come with the phone.
5|i was little nervous, as i purchased it on the very first day of its launch but i have to say this phone is a badass. Dimensions of this phone is of exact as iphone 6, phone looks premium and built quality is superb even superior than oneplus one. i found it sleeker than iphone 6. Screen size and resolution is just perfect, it has all the crispness of 441ppi. Front camera will no doubt surprise you, m really impressed with camera performance. No heating issue found yet, been using this phone continously since the day i got it, watched few movies and played games like asphalt and clash of clan. overall this phone keeps the legacy of oneplus one. yes there is a little problem with software, phone does not detect memory card in storage and you can not move applications to SD card but next OTA update should resolve it as oneplus has a habbit of giving multiple minor update every other week.
1|I got this phone a week ago. but from the first day i am facing issues with this phone. 1-proximity sensor issue 2-Heating issue 3- Only one speaker is working 4-One plus service is very worst 5-Amazon return policy is worst Explaining the proximity issue---- During on the call, phone vibrates automatically and screen is getting ON. I thought might be an alert/notification/another call/msg but no sign of that. This is happening every time within the call. I locked the screen after connecting the call and in the middle of conversation again I sense the vibration near the ear. Any settings issue/proximity issue?? is this software issue or Hardware issue????? Explaing the heating issue- I have not installed any heavy software but still there is heat issue sometimes. Explaining the Speaker issue. I observed the speaker few days ago. i found only one speaker is working.
4|Using this phone since a half month. Got this product on 8th of Nov its a fab phone !!! Value for money. I will writing cons as well pros of this product. 1st i will give detail abt the phone. The phone includes a charger which is of 2amp thats a well built charger, a scratch guard, a case along with it, thats it Got no earplug. Having CyanogenMod 13 thats latest one. Super amoled diaplay is awsome which saves lot of the battery. But from starting onwarda having prob with call duration i get no call duration after the end of the call. So i couldnt get 2 know how much charged my last call or data balance so its request to oneplus 2 look at it. Pros:- 1. Amoled display is awsome 2. Build quality 3.battery backup 4. Front cam is fab 5. No lags yet Cons:- 1. Rear cam is not upto mark 2. No headphones 3. Invite system
3|I have Received OnePlus X Ten days ago, The phone looks Great & Rich with this Pricing, Feel like iPhone, But From software side, Oxygen OS is not satisfied with some issues, No option showing how to save data/files in SD card, All files saving default in phone memory only, No color adjustment option for displayed colours, the colours are more Vibrant, Phone automatically goes to flight mode even in normal mode. Dialed Number hanging / caller couldn't hear our voice, Display moving to HOLD or Conference Mode, No Gallery App, Front & Rear Camera pic Quality is Good, But on screen Display of switching to video/Camera modes is not so ease. No light for Home & back Buttons Shelf Mode No use only showing frequent Apps, So just I m Waiting for any OS modification updates from OPX , Then only I can Recommend this phone to any one.
3|Build quality is superb. Just like a very premium mobile. Since phone is new it bond to be fast. Both cameras are okok. When u zoom it clearity is very less. But focusing is fast. It will last 10-12 bas. N the phone heats up a lot. Especially while charging. Like a oven. N pls bring good covers for the phone. Coz phone is very slippery..
4|Purchased this for a first time smart phone user who gave feedback that it is an excellent product, the looks are beautiful, there is a premium feel when holding in hand. The operation is smooth, the display is outstanding. Camera is above average, good pictures in bright light, but low light pictures are not clear enough but passable, front camera is not bad at all. The gesture controls are useful, similarly the notification switch. The dual SIM or Single-SIM and SD card feature could be a dampener for some but I prefer SIMs in separate mobile, because the second SIM is used less. It is not a fingerprint magnet as was being said, but do not touch with grimy hands. Would have given an outstanding rating but recently the mobile went into safe mode and had a difficult time to get it up and running using the information available on internet. Overall, very satisfied with the experience.
4|I got this new one plus from amazon 5 days ago.. These are pros and cons that i found for this device Pros 1)Amoled Display is vivid and nice except the white colour which us not pure white which has bluish tint which is unoticable 2)Performance.. This phone performs a lot more than other phones at 17k 3) Customisation available in oxygen os 4) Stunning looks.. The phone looks amazingly cool 5)Gestures and ambient sensor 6)Decent battery perfomance Cons 1)Camera is not at the best.. I think oneplus could have done better at that part 2)Camera ui and app is a garbage.. U hav to install ur own 3d party camera apps fr better performance 3)THE PHONE IS HIGHLY SLIPPERY..its like a carom coin when its table without any case So if ur looking fr good phone at 17k range.. Obviously opx is the best choice!! Good luck :)
5|Being using the OnePlus One for a year..But the the X is a different category altogether..It cannot be compared with the OnePlus One. The the X was made keeping design and style in mind to give consumers a more premium looking device for less price.I must say..Being using it for the past one week..Compared to the opo it feels more lighter and more compact due to its smaller screen size..Its more easier to use it singlehandedly. And the amoled screen.... Ohh boy... That's what was really missing on the opo and op2. The black is really black... At times u cannot tell the difference between the screen and bezel. I have also posted some screen shots earlier.. Pls check them out. Btw... I'm not comparing the X with the one or two..... Just a short review for others who are planing to get the X ?? rear camera is good... Not the best... But the 8mp front camera gives some awesome selfies
5|This phonw is really an aweaome one.The camera is a beast.The processor is the only thing for which Im sad.It comes with Snapdragon 801 processor which wont recieve updates after Android M.Oxygen OS is fine.Thanks to Nishant Wadhwa for invite. Contact him if even you people want an invite : nishantnw9999@gmail.com
5|Here I am iam writing my review after I received the product.first if all oneday delivery was awesome thank you amazon for your good service. Package was nice and when I unbox the package specially the phone design really sexy and decent premium build quality...display look really cool..and phone working flawlessly fine..selfie camera is super..I should say one plus brand is our future phone which can beat all the other competitors... As per budget this is the best smartphone in the market..if you get an invite just go for it..you will love it bravo....this is a phone which will worth every single penny. And you will not regret..lastly thanks one plus hope to see ur upcoming again soon...I HAVE A THREE INVITE WHICH I CAN SHARE TO ANYONE ..IF ANYONE WANT TO BUY ONE PLUS X SENT ME A TEXT MESSAGE ON 9999890779...ONLY TEXT.VALID FOR THREE DAY ..THAT IS DEC 2 TO 6 DEC. BEST OF LUCK
2|After 5 days of usage: Pros: 1. Excellent looks, gives a premium look and feel. However, I had an Xperia Z1 bought at same price 4 months ago, and it had the same or better look and feel 2. Light weight, this is where it scores better than my previous phone - xperia z1 3. Phone is fast, performance matches the price range Cons: 1. Package didnt had headset / earphone 2. Very, Very annoying keyboard, took me an hour of research to turn off 'vibrate on touch' feature. And still could not turn it off completely, it still vibrate for home, back keys 3. No search space to look for aps (at least i could not find it) 4. For some reasons, when I switch on WIFI, mobile data also becomes active, god knows why 5. Worthless camera quality for a phone at this price range, this is the biggest drawback. Really poor picture quality.
5|IN07-5949-1C3C-02E9. Is invite. ItI liked the product. I have read few reviews. Many people do not know that this phone has one speaker. Other grill is for symmetry. Camera good in good lighting conditions. I have either used. Moto e camera or nikon D90. So I don't know about how this camera compares with other phones. Better than. Moto e. No mobile camera can be near D90. Rest of the phone is very good.. Very beautiful. Never hanged. Black theme is very good. Very handy. Power button is on right in the middle so difficult to excess with right hand. Very convenient for left hand. But no phone is perfect in this price range. I wanted a beautiful phone so I compromised on camera. If camera is ur top and only priority in low light conditions then don't purchase it. Other wise it is a good buy. If people have issues then they can get the phone insured and then can claim.
5|Awesome phone..!! Amoled display is amazing.. Battery life is good as well .. I didn't found any cons as such..
4|Awesome product. I am having 4 invites for one plus x any one interested, drop a mail on pratik.anjania@gmail.com
4|Just bought...reached on time, a stunning looking phone, first time i seen an android phone screen that is as smooth as nokia lumia phones. brightness is a little bit low but it is ok. Remember, it support only nano sim. no micro sim card support. and either you can put 2 sim cards, or one sim and one micro sd card.
3|Pros 1.Looks nice, slim and light weight 2. Performance is good. Very Responsive 3. Expandable Memory. Its also working without any lag. 4. Nice looking charger. 5. Comes with transparent silicon case and screen guard. Cons 1. Camera quality in low light is very poor. Mi4i is far better in terms of camera performance and features 2. Display quality is not up to the mark. The colors are not so natural. (compared this side by side with Samsung e5, mi3 & mi4i. Display in this is worst among the lot) 3. Battery backup is less than average considering the phone's cost. Verdict No value for money. Much better and less expensive options are available in the market. I would have given 5 stars had the price been around 11k. I think phones like mi4i, motog turbo, Lenovo k3 note are better options than this.
5|After 2week of use I am writing this review, Superb Build , everything is working as expected what mention in OP site for this product . I was looking for metallic unibody (non removal battery / back cover) with sleek design and OPX is the answer to my search . about camera's front and rear its unbeatable unlike the Samsung A7 which I do own too .. you will not regret on it. about 8 gig space to install apps and beware the OS does not support the apps to be move over SD card .. but other that that you can move your Media files to free up camera or local app stuffs from Whatsapp. AMOLED display with crisp and clear videos. flawless operation 3gig ram works as charm you'll get almost 1.4 /1.5 free all time 128gig support for SD (what more one can ask for) I got what I was searching for! Worth for a long wait.
4|Have been using for past 1 week, happy with the phone for the price range Build quality is premium, very fluid to operate, display is rich, light weight and easy to handle. Battery life is decent as it is lasting for a full day with normal usage Needs some software updates to overcome minor issues
1|The product I received was a faulty one. The mobile started to hang on day 1 itself & rebooting automatically every 10-15 mins. The camera is avg, don't go after mega pixels. I returned the phone after a weeks usage. Return back policy is good & money was credited very fast. Go for other brands I would suggest.
4|I thought I found an good phone.... But when I play coc it gets heated very fast.... I don't know what to do plz give me an suggestion... Other then overall performance is good... And am new to this phone I found not much options bcz I used Samsung S3 before... Plz tell me how can I get raid of heating issue...
2|Excellent Phone (Look) but few Major Flaws like cannot listen to Music with Head Phones on if we lock the phone. No Inbuilt Gallery. No Movie Maker. No Proper audio songs player. No proper video songs player. Cannot share audio and video songs via Google play and other inbuilt devices.
1|Bought this mobile a month back and thinking of switching it as soon as possible. Waste of money. So many faults in the mobile. Its nt even working properly, also it hangs very often. The very frst day I used the mobile it hanged! Not at all satisfied with the overall performance of the mobile. Its album function is very outdated. You just can't see the pic in a row if open in 'Files' Opens one at a time, and thn you have to come back to see another image. The only thing i liked about this mobile is its camera. But that too with less options in it. It doesn't provide any extra function rather thn taking pics. You need to download extra app for editing your pic or adding any filter effect. I am so disappointed with this mobile. I would never suggest anyone to buy one plus X. Its such a headache. 'Setting' is not working, it says unfortunately setting has stopped!!! Giving it 1 star just for the overall glass looks, AMOLED screen and the quality of camera. Save your money and take other mobile in this range.
4|Purchased one plus x via Amazon with invite one month back . I am giving this review after usage of 1 month so you can trust my review . Talking about good part 1st , phone has brilliant display some people might say that AMOLED screen looks over saturated but trust me display is quite good and sharp at least better than one plus 2 and black is really black , also this black theme is battery saver though battery life is not that great it is sufficient for one day usage. I like the 5'' display good fit in hand also easy to carry in pocket with free case provided by One plus. Performance is awesome ,even if you open more than 20+ windows at a time no lag is noticed also gaming performance is quite good yes I have not checked with heavy games i am not fan of mobile gaming . I want to clear doubt of some people about network reception, with my Vodaphone it is really working fine even for 4g LTE no complaint heard till now from anyone. In USA people faced few issue with LTE support, but network is good for India :) . Now let me tell you something about bad part of this phone.Camera is good in day light but not so good in low light if camera is your main concern then stay away from this phone , As far as software concern, it has latest android 5.1 with oxygen OS 2.0.But it is with few bugs earlier i was not able to delete file or move apps to SD card, but thankfully one plus has provide fix for that, so far i have received 3 major updates about SD card, Camera interface and Chrome scrolling issue. I personally think One plus should call it as Beta version which they are selling to us, they are treating customers as their testers , If you don't want to update your phone every now and then please stay away from this phone. Overall i will say this phone is good but not great, but considering the price and looks and display people can buy this phone. Cheers :)
3|Well I am using the One Plus X for 15 days now and this is my experience with the phone. Please note the One Plus X is my second phone my primary phone being the Iphone 6. So my usage of this phone is somewhat limited. I mainly use this phone for calling, surfing and messaging service and a few other reading apps. I am only using one sim card and NO memory card PROS 1) The design and build of the phone is super classy. It has an extremely rich and elegant feel and I dont even like to cover the phone with the back cover provided on purchase. A lot of people who have seen this phone have asked me about it, 2) The display of the phone is amazing. Its extremely sharp and clear and in fact it enticed me to start seeing HD videos and other reading apps like Kindle on this phone. The screen is super sensitive to your touch and very responsive (a tad too responsive at time but no complaints) 3) The phone is super quick and works like a charm but the highest consumption for me is watching HD videos on you tube and internet. I am not using any high intensity games or apps. Nor have I loaded a lot of apps on the phone. The best part of this phone is there is no bloatware (unecessary apps) pre installed which serve no purpose. I have used Samsung, LG & Motorola before this and all of this phones especially Samsung come with lot of bloatware which really hamper the phone performance and memory. 4) Battery is decent with my minimalist usage from 8 AM to 11 PM only 60% of the battery is used. End of the day anything between 30% to 40% is remaining. Am trying to max it out this weekend and see how far I can stretch it. CONS 1) The biggest and the major con of the phone is the call quality and connectivity. Its extremely extremely poor. I am using Vodafone and my previous phone was Moto G (2nd gen). I used to get full coverage in my old phone in my house and office however in the One Plus X I hardly manage to get half coverage and most of the times no coverage at all. Many times the network just conks off even on the open road and the only solution is to reboot the phone (no putting the airplane mode on and off doesn't work either). A very interesting observation is that in my house my mother is also using the Moto G (2nd gen), my father is using the Asus Zenfone 2, my wife is using One Plus One and all of us are on Vodafone (same corporate plan). While my mother and father have no connectivity issues both me and my wife who are using One Plus phones are having major problems (so its definitely a phone issue and not network issue) 2) The call quality is poor in the sense that many times (7 times out of 10) when I call or receive the other person just cannot hear me even though I can hear them clearly. I have to hang up the call and call back period nothing else works. (Again I would like to point out the same problem is with my wife's One Plus One and my One Plus X but not with my fathers Asus Zenfone 2 or mothers Moto G (2nd gen), and I also was using the Moto G (2nd gen) until 15 days ago but never had this problem then!!) Another thing I would like to point out is when you purchase the One Plus X they will bundle up a protection plan with B2X for comprehensive coverage for 1 year (charged extra of course. DO NOT, DO NOT DO NOT buy this plan and waste your money. B2X is a complete fraud. They have terms and conditions that this plan has to be bought immediately after buying the One Plus X and registered ASAP one you get the plan in hand. I registered my One Plus X details on 25th November and even received a confirmation email from them. However even after a week they haven't registered my phone yet and emails to their customer support id and their escalation team id have gone unanswered. So again save your money and dont use B2X coverage.
2|Premium Look & Solid Build 2.3 Ghz Snapdragon Quad Core (Outdated but clock speed and RAM lifted up) 3 GB RAM 16 GB ROM (11.5 For users) 13 MP Rear and 8 MP Front ( Front Better than Rear) AMOLED 5' HD Screen - Deep Color and high quality view. Gorilla Glass 3 on Front and Rear Glass panel. No 3rd party apps - Only Google apps in default. Double Tab wake up and shut down for screen. Screen Guard and Silicon Case on Box. Very Responsive touch. Pretty good Sound quality DND Physical button is a good option. Lollipop based Oxygen OS. Battery is okay for the Size (Withstand a day with Average use. 45% from 10 Am to 8 Pm on decent use with Videos & Web search on Wifi & 3 G) No Heating issue on usage 75% Charging in a Hour (Approximate Time by testing twice on day 2 of owning) Things to be noticed: Camera Quality is not up to the mark in Low lights - SW update might fix later overall photo clarity is Above Average. If you Go in to HDR or Clear Pic or Beauty mode flash light button will vanish - Bug to be fixed. No Gallery in default - Use Google Photos or Files to View Photos No Hands free in Box LTE Band Issue in North America With some carriers (For Travelers to USA) Aged Wifi V4.0 (Speed will be not par with other premium brands) Heats up very much when plugged in charging and using youtube & other apps. No auto mode in NW selection Either 2G, 3G or LTE Bugs: Double Tab wake up not working properly if there is notification displayed in Lock screen Lock Screen wake up takes long time to display security pin or pattern some times. Shortcut tray drop down sometimes automatically while on call. Screen Wake up issue is there sometimes. Some of the app notification not notified. (Hangouts) Auto brightness issue is there.
4|Great phone with the specs specified on the label, but when using it the real problem encountered. 1. Build quality & Design & Looks------- Super (10/10). I have never seen such a beautiful phone at this price. 2. When I made my first call to my Dad, I totally disappointed about the call reception, voice was not clear. At that time I have lost my good opinion on OPX. 3. After the software update over the Wi-fi, the phone gets somewhat better. (During the update the camera portion of the phone got heated up.) 4. The Wi-fi reception of the phone is also not good. Sometimes it showed higher speeds, sometimes it showed lesser speeds. 5. The Playstore made me angry during downloading the apps.(like showing download error 927) After the update, its get overcame. 6. Gaming: I played Asphalt Airborne 8 and Subway surfers, I clearly find some lag during the play. And also the phone gets heated. 7. There is no in built Gallery and File Explorer. You have to install third party apps. 8. The AMOLED Display is Awesome.... The screen is very CRISP, VIVID, there is no bad point to mention about display. 9. Charging: It takes nearly 90-100 min to charge from 2% to 100% 10. Battery backup: Not OK at this price. If you are a good user of the phone, you need to charge twice a day. 11. Camera: The front camera is good. The rear camera is not that much good. In dark/lower lights the camera is worst I can say. And there is auto flash in this phone. Auto focus of the camera is not the best. The options in the camera is not that much good. 12. I still not checked about 4G connection due to non availability of the 4G networks in our area. This is the Review I have given here after using the phone for 3 days. The delivery of the Amazon is good.
5|This has to be the best looking sub 5' inch , below 20 k budget phone Ive seen till now . I have been using the handset since last 4 days and these are some of the things I like and dislike about the "X" so far .. LIKE : - Design...Design ....Design ... It is impossible to believe as to how one plus could put together such a stunning design ( feels a little like the xperia series) at such a low price .The handset is sleek and stylish and looks premium without an iota of doubt. - Almost pure android like experience with oxygen os.. No clutter and useless bloatware that eat up your ram . - Alert slider (like in the one plus 2 ) . Comes in handy a lot of times in urgency or meetings . - Included radio..... A first for any oneplus device . - Expandable memory option, also A first for any oneplus device !!!! DISLIKE : - The handset without the cover is an absolute fingerprint magnet !!!! use the back cover in the box and do not remove the screen protector if you wanna keep t clean . - Could have at least used a 808 processor , if not a 64 bit 600 series or an octacore 810 . 801 is a good but a soon to be obsolete processor . - Sd card not readable on initial boot, as of now ( one plus has promised a ota software fix in few weeks) - No type - c fast charging . WHY?? ONE PLUS, WHY ????? A small battery and no fastcharging ... what were you thinking ?? - Battery seems to be a tiny point of worry if not alarming . It lasted me about 9-10 hrs with 2-3 hrs of data usage, about 15 calls and about 20-15 mins of gaming which is only satisfactory , if you ask me . - Backlight on physical key does not light up . - Speaker placed oddly as the sound tends to get muffled when playing games due to the hand position. - No fingerprint sensor But all said and done , this is a beautiful value for money device that you can get at this price range ... If only it had a better processor and a fingerprint sensor with type c - charging with a sub 20 k price tag , this would have been a MIDRANGE KILLER just like its predecessors .
5|The following are my observations after using the phone for a day. ( I also own and used iphone 4, 4s, 5c, Samsung Grand, Blackberry Pearl, Moto g 1st gen, Moto g 2nd Gen, Lg G2, Asus Zen phone and the latest Moto X Style ) - Fantastic Design - Superb Display - Very Good Performance - No Lags at all - Very Nice Camera - Good Battery - Pampering Gestures - like double tap of home button to sleep and double tap to wake up Etc., - Off screen Buttons Gives more "screen space" ( though not back lit we will very easily get used to them within a day ) - Colors are Super Awesome - Very Good Call Quality along with Clarity - No call drops or breaking while talking. - Excellent Volume ( Music and Calls ) - Very Good Brightness ( Sun light readability is very good ) - Does not heat up - Comfortable for one handed operation - Super Thin and Super Light weight The reasons why i went for One Plus X ( after owning a Moto X Style for 2 weeks ) - 5 Inch Screen - Amoled Screen - Compactness - Super Sleek - Near Stock android experience + useful Oxygen OS features - 3 GB RAM - SD Card Option - Of course for the Looks of it. No matter how many unboxing videos we see, unless we see the phone in person we will never understand how great looking the phone is. Very Very Very greatly designed and premium looking phone. I am very happy and pleased with the phone's performance after using it for the whole day. Battery also did not die on me. I used the phone right out of the box with 80% battery and after using for the whole day still have about 40% left. I used for calls, what's app, updated the phone software, installed apps and kept double tapping all day to see the notifications. I haven't charged it yet ( till 10 pm ). I will come back with more updates after more usage. THE BEST PHONE and VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
3|I have been using phone since 3 days and here's my review: Only one biggest con, but lets go through pros first. Display:- display clarity is awesome and colors are vivid.display pixels are great. you can see notable difference from any phone while watching same video on both phone. display 5/5 back camera:- video recording is too awesome...i can see all natural colors in video..way better than OPO....photos taken in sunlight are clear and colors are perfect.low light photos are ok. camera 4/5 front camera:- in good light condition, photos are too awesome and clear and colors again are perfect. 4/5 speaker- 4/5 build:- build is superb and looks like premium phone....you can handle phone with one hand....glass back is looking very class....4.5/5 (due to fingerprint magnet) OS:- oxygenOS is also felt good until now..no lags at all. Battery:- battery backup is ok ok but lasts full day with medium to little high usage.... Now's the time for cons:- Heating issue:- Phone gets heat up like anything while playing games. after playing game like asphatt, nova 3, mortal combat 5, for 5 to mins, phone starts heating...after playing for 10 to 15 mins, phone heats up too much at back upper area and metal frame heats up too much.... During normal usage of wifi, amazon,facebook,twitter,skype,grofers,gmail, for 10 mins, phone gets warmer...and with 3 to4 more apps and 20 mins usage, phone gets heated... I dont understand why is phone getting heated this much.... Is anyone too facing this same heating issue?please let me know. if not, i have to return my phone...
5|Amazing product from OnePlus. This is my first OnePlus purchase and I am fully satisfied. OnePlus X have looks to kill. Easily one of the best looking phone across the segments. Glass and metal built is very pleasing on eyes and in hands. Camera (front and back) both are amazing, not the best but surely will do the job with perfection with special mention of front camera at 8 MP is flawless. Amoled display is very good and will help you save battery. 801 Snapdragon and 3 GB ram do their job pretty well, no performance lag noticed even in the high graphics games. I am not a user who play games or watches videos whole day, but even then my previous phone (Moto X 1st Gen) never lasted me whole day, but OnePlus X do it amazingly. Very good battery back-up. Fast charging also comes handy when you don't have much time to leave your phone wired. All in all, I don't have any negative to write about this phone, but then its just a week I am using this so far. May be the one i can think of is that this is not waterproof. If you have an invite for this one, don't let this go...
4|Pros: Great built, sleek, glossy and aesthetically good phone. Good performance and battery life, Good camera works good in day and night. Great display and best noisy cancellation. Best messanger suggestions. Perfect screen touch. Active sense for screen unlock, camera is amazing. Cons: Bad UI. Phone index doesnt get update with any changes in contact, Creates multiple entries for contact and fails to merge phone contact and google contact. Contacts saved from Whatsapp doesnt reflect in phone index. no image viewer. Need external app to view pic/ video in both phone and SD memory. No Support for SD card initially (now corrected) but still not stable. Suggestions would be: Won't import contacts from google. It creates mess with everything. Bottom line: 1+ team learning UI development with user feedback. worst expected scenario.
5|Excellent phone on this price. Good quality material used Made in china but company has keep quality standards high. Cons : Heating issue while using in charging mode, very slim to handle. Recommended to agile users who has value of product and who can handle with care.
5|awesome phone made with mind n usage of a normal man why it is so cheap is doesnt matter at all the thing matter is tht its the best n trust me all guys cn buy it by closing ur eyes bcz u cn trust on its name n guys if u want its invite fr free contact me i hv many invits fr freee freee at nishantnw9999@gmail.com so stop buying invites n get it for free frm me trust u will get mad aftr using oneplus x
5|I bought the One Plus X around two weeks ago. So far, its brilliant. Its beautiful. And it was absolutely worth the wait. The most striking thing is probably the vibrancy of colours and pictures on the AMOLED screen. I am not a very heavy user, though I do play a couple of games like Supermarket Management 2 and Delicious Emily, and use sketching apps like Autodesk Sketchbook Pro all the time, with the wi fi on. And I am glad to say, this phone lives up to the hardware and software ratings. The battery packs a punch and with normal usage you can expect it to last you more than 24 hours, but with very intensive usage it wil give you around 14 to 18 hours, which I think is pretty decent given that its only 2525 MAh. Lastly, the phone is an eye catcher: slim, with a metal and glass body, and that jet black of the AMOLED; it is simply a stunner.
4|Hey Guys, One Plus Packaging was awesome and so as Amazon delivery. I almost went to buy one plus 2 but then i came to know about this great looking phone. I am not a hardcore gamer, so all i wanted is a phone that does with no lag, effective with 4G (Airtel), easy to operate in one hand, good battery and off course good looking. This one met everything so i just went for it and boy to my surprise this phone is really stunning with a brilliant AMOLED display. I am very happy with this phone and here is my feedback, Speed 8/10 Display 9/10 Battery Life 7/10 (Wish it had 3000 or more mAh, but it is good enough and i have no complaints) I wish the capacitive buttons do light up, it took me a while to get use to it. I wish some one can make a tempered glass that increases the visibility of these buttons. Finally here is a free invite for you, use it by 19th Nov. Enjoy IN9B-9D28-28A2-26D0 Cheers.
5|It's an excellent piece of tech, a snappy performer with a hi-res display, with amazing camera experience and all-round connectivity package, not flagship killer though. It's so thin, light weight, handy, and of course so premium. Performance wise it's kickass, 3GB ram makes multitasking so easy, 32 bit processor might seems a little outdated but quad-core Krait 400 CPU of the Snapdragon 801 is still quite a capable processor and a relevant performer, one of the best 32 bit processor available in market. And the Adreno 330 handle Full HD graphics great. Battery life is average, with very good standby time. Oxygen OS is smooth and clean, you can totally experience the stock Android feel. Build quality is top-notch. If your budget is below 20k, then without a second thought you can go for OnePlus X.
5|Awesomely Crafted Device, Feels & Looks wise very premium. The Hybrid sim slot is kind of con else everything is good enough. Display 9/10 Battery easily gives juice for 1 day with 5hr+ SOT Performance is really smooth. So Kind of Total VFM device for this price range.
4|Slim & Sexy phone. Also Fast & lightweight. Takes a bit of time to understand the quirky Oxygen OS though. Am facing some (minor) problems like air bubbles in the prefixed screen guard, & lack of support for Gujarati script in WhatsApp. In Samsung phones I never had this (latter) problem. Also, couple of other minor issues. Like lack of a dedicated 2nd sim slot, & lack of support for Vodafone Alerts, no "Gallery" icon for viewing continuous slides (instead I have to go back & forth between photos to view them) & no earphones are included. All common features of basic phones we got used to over the years but surprisingly given the miss in this otherwise awesome smartphone. Usable ROM memory is about 10 Gb. Weighing the pros & cons, still worth the purchase - at this price point :)
2|it is not as good as it was expected. memory is main concern. certain features are less user friendly. dual sim facility was just a boast since it was not stated that either of memory card or sim can be installed. Again micro sim requires additional expenditure. overall its like average cell phone
4|I shall come straight to the point here, at this cost its one of the best devices. Have been using for 5 days now pros and cons listed below:- Pros 1. At this price the build quality is amazing, though back is prone to finger prints but the cover provided solves that too. 2. 3 GB ram makes it perfect for multitasking and gaming. 3. Front camera is amazingly fast and selfies are great. Cons 1. At this price you do expect earpieces would be provided. 2. Back camera fails in low light conditions. 3. Sometimes during conversation the front panel opens up and somethings get presses accidentally because of touch sensitivity. 4. Loudspeaker is just not audible enough. Overall is a great purchase and if you do have earpieces and are not a photo friek you should go for this.
2|i used one plus x for more than 5 days now, it had an amazing display and body design, but not a complementary OS. the stock Android is so boring it looks like moto g which was my last phone..also had a serious issue with phone- battery drains so quickly, in 10 mins reduces by 6-7% and sometimes works fine. it's not a consistent performing phone when we consider overall performance which includes battery, speed and camera quality. I got a chance to use mi4i and found noticiable great plus points like better and fast MIUI, camera has dual colored flash yellow and white which gives amazing picture quality in low light and even in sunlight. if battery issue can be sorted and UI can be changed phone is one of it's kind... my suggestion is if u have used stock Android already u won't like it much.. else u can try...
5|Phone is lovely. Looks very grand. I would say worth for money. Only drawback battery backup. when you're continuously gaming battery drops one percentage every minute. Though it's common for most of the mobiles. Otherwise phone is incredible ,most of them just asked me whether it's iPhone 6s.
5|Amazing Phone....If you are looking for any complaints, this is the wrong post to look at...:).... It feels great in the hand....has a 3 GB ram so works very smoothly... If i had to nitpick its that u need to carry a cloth with you at all times to clean the screen from your fingerprints :)...
5|pros: extremely good looking extremely fast with 3gb ram,multitasking at its finest battery is 2450mah which is pretty low for a phone with high specs but it gives me more than a days usage with wifi ,hotspot on(idk how!!) the display is the best ,it has an amoled display that looks extremely clear with a high resolution oxygen mod gives neat little customizations since its 5 inch its extremely good for watching anything in it but it can be used one -handed it already comes with a screen guard and back case cons: there is no backlit buttons(so a little bit of getting used to) the processor is pretty outdated(but it performs well although there may be a slight lag in high graphics games) camera is good but not the best no usb type-c,(its micro usb only)
4|The phone is good one with excellent display. Im not gadget geek but want a decent phone with decent performance. One plus x is more than that. But regarding battery performance it is still lagging. If u keep mob as a factory set it ll last more than a day but once u start loading apps its not lasting 12 hrs. Regarding heating it happens with app r work giving high load to processor lik it happened wen i used movie maker app, photo editing apps etc, Call nd signal strengths r stable. Power button at side makes sometime uncomfortable nd cannot be properly placed in mobile holder for cars as most holder hold at sides nd it s pressing it so u hav to be careful in choosing mobile holder Camera quality is excellent no issues. Overall this phone s best in its class and at this reasonable price.
5|Trust me this phone will make you feel very good. Very smooth finishing and touch, excellent look, no lagging except sometimes it lags for a second which can be ignored for such beautiful handset. Front Camera beats Iphone 6S image quality. Rear camera is good enough. As per reviews if you need better rear camera. Go get yourself Canon DSLR worth Rs25k. OPX does it jobs well. Only the phone is to be handled with care and its seems very fragile. Also the size of picture it clicks are big enough for me might be because I was a Blackberry user for a long time which compress the images. All Blackberry users specially who thinks nothing can replace BB. This purchase may prove you wrong. Go for it blindly if it fits your budget and if you are an average user who loves to have beautiful phone always in their hand. Cheers!
5|Genuine and perfect review - Bought this mobile for 15k in a deal with 1500 cash back aswell..For this price One plus X is simply awesome.. Box contains a Sim Ejector pin , back case and a charger..Unfortunately no ear phones..Still ok.. Pros : Mobile looks are superb..I took black color piece which is stunning..The edges and performance is super Comes with Gorilla glass and a screen guard Performance is so good with 3 GB ram No heating issue.. Charges in 2 hrs approximately.. Played few games and performs well Cons.. Either a sim or a SD card works.. Too slippery.. REst of all be assured u will never think bad abt this beautiful mobile..One plus deserve 5stars... Last but not least Camera Quality as u all know..Its awesome!!
4|This is an excellent phone for the price. Very smooth ui and oxygen os will improve as things go ahead. We can expect updates as this company has only 3 products in its kitty. In terms of build quality there are very few phones that can match the looks at this price point. The snapdragon 801 is a former flagship processor which was used in past flagships and is a better bet than the SD 615 that populates this segment. The amoled screen is gorgeous and I must say better the ones on the oneplus 1 and 2. The adreno 330 is still competitive to push those pixels on this 5 inch screen. The only reason I have for cutting a star is the battery life which is fine but not overtly great And the body of the phone is a finger print magnet. A case on this phone is a must. Overall good job oneplus.
5|This is a really nice phone... The best part is the Amoled screen and The front and back glass panel. phone feels really sturdy in hands & yet very light. The screen guard already pasted on the phone & a bumpers case is also provided in the package, which is an added benefit as both frond and back glass panels make you worry about the accidental drop. Also the feature with the dual sim / Sim+micro SD tray is really nice. If you want to use it a dual sim, I will suggest just go on and put two sims, 16GB is ok for normal applications & regular usage and this phone supports OTG out of the box which is pretty good. I have a tested sandisc 64 OTG pendrive, and was able to copy / paste / play applications without any lag. To conclude its an awesome phone for its price...
5|DON'T PAY ANYONE FOR INVITE:: TAKE THIS INVITE FOR ONEPLUS X----> IN25-6985-1F41-0DE4 [03-12-2015] IN9F-E565-97FE-3847 [03-12-2015] IN25-B956-B1B9-F53A [03-12-2015] INEF-7D6C-3B23-4F51 [03-12-2015] FOR ONEPLUS 2 INB0-AD7B-ACB6-6D8F[03-12-2015]
4|This is my first ever mobile purchase on Amazon.in and now I don't regret my decision. Pros: 1. Lovely to hold this in your hands 2. Fast and Responsive UI 3. Easy to operate with one hand 4. Brilliant display supported by AMOLED screen 5. Fantastic build quality 6. Super slim Cons: 1. External Storage not highlighted under 'Storage' 2. No inbuilt Gallery application - have to rely on third party applications but when have them installed, duplicate folders found 3. Files transferred via Shareit cannot be viewed in the third party Gallery apps 4. Lesser Battery Capacity 5. Phone rear is a finger print magent 6. Reproduction of Colors sometimes look over exposed - Oneplus X is more towards the Cooler display than a Warm display
4|True value for money. Giving it 4 star only because it doesn't allow dual sim support with expandable memory but then it is clearly mentioned in the specs. I saw lot of reviews where they mentioned about the battery life but honestly I found the battery life is very decent and it lasts full day or even more than a day, for my kind of use. I'm a working guy so the maximum uses after office hours. About the camera: don't expect a food quality picture in low light situation. During daylight the picture quality is very nice. Manual control is not there, you can't change ISO or shutter speed, like in MI phones...but then hey its a mobile not a DSLR :) Touch n display are superb but the best thing about this mobile is the built quality and the looks. It's smart phone with a smart look ...period
4|I just started playing games that too 20 min only..., it is getting heat back top left side (beside camera), like other mobile it also has heating issue,,,, guys just aware of this n buy the product...!!!!! Just now i received one-plus x mobile, but amazon packing not at all good, since that is a some what costly mobile at least they should take care of packing, and coming to mobile 1.looks good stunning design but in specs they said mobile battery is Li-Pro battery but phone has nly Li-Ion battery and 2.one more thing i just used phone for 30 min to do all the setting it got reduced by 10% battery, finally i do believe in that like all the smart phones this also won't give more than 10 hours. 3.As i know Lio-Pro batteries will give more battery life, i guess they cheated here. so b aware of that guys.
5|this is the best product in this price range. it has got everything. it is sleek, trendy fast decent battery life great camera quality this a platform is small and there is much to add. thanks amazon and 1+ for bringing this to Indian market
4|Hii friends, I am writing this review after using 1month. This is a great phone with an excellent features and customizable. Display: AMOLED display gives an real n beautiful interaction with good brightness. Battery: capacity of battery low but the backup it gives for a longer time. Looking: looking wise it gives especially an beautiful impact. Holding in hands very easy. Os: the customizable of gives an friendly interaction with better options. This is giving a faster Ota updates. Processor with an excellent speed and a 3gb RAM giving an unbeatable gaming in high graphics games. Cons: The only problem here it is we can use two SIM cards at a time if there is no need of external memory card. If u want use memory card then we can use only one SIM card.
5|After a long time this Mobile felt the best in hand.. both in specs and hardware. Invite was also not so hard to get. A special thanks to the #Oneplus team for choosing a AMOLED screen which is stunning and FM Radio + Expandable memory which most of the users were waiting for. Its performing quite good and Oxygen OS is fine and simple. #Oneplus has said that they will be rolling out Android M in the 1st Quarter nest year so thats a good news too. Totally i'm satisfied with the beautifully crafted device. I had some issue with the battery first but it was okay after you know how to manage your apps accordingly. And to mention this is my 30th mobile i have purchased[ includes ONEPLUS ONE and ONEPLUS TWO].. and i think il hold on to this "X" for sometime until #ONEPLUS reveals another beauty...
5|This is a perfect soul for mid-range hunters ! Oneplus has crafted it so well and the performance is fabulous ! Good camera ! Battery is average though one can use it whole day on moderate usage !finger sensor was expected ! Still much more attractive things are included in 17k only !
5|Hi This is Rohit.. I must say this is one of the best phone in this range..(17-25k). Camera is too good. many people have said tat back camera can be more good...but really its worth it.. compared to Hrc 828 Camera quality..one plus x clarity is too much good. Also battery life is too good(using single sim. nd 2 g on full day) from morning 9 to night 9 it consumes only 20 percent or 30 percent. At max if u use whatsapp for 3 hours or 4 hours it will consumes at max 44 percent for full day. So its too good in backup.Specially its idle time is too goooood.......It consumes only 3 to 4 percent for nearly 6 hours. front as u know its alreay exceptional in this. One of the best look mobile nd feel like diif in hand. Slim nd comfort for holdind nd metal adds look extra in beauty
4|Positives: I migrated from a Windows phone to Android with a lot of apprehension on UI. But this one didn't disappoint me at all! The finish of OPX is too good. There's absolutely no lag with respect to the usual apps like Whatsapp, Gmail etc; The phone feels very sturdy. Negatives: The camera could have been slightly better. As someone mentioned, its heavily dependent on outdoor lighting. Also, when the camera is switched on, the Home button, back button doesn't show up, unless we slide downwards over the screen. SMS - The setting literally tested my patience. Not sure if I has trouble with my Airtel 4G sim card. I wasn't able to send SMS for the first 4 days. I had to refer couple of forums, call up customer care and get the settings set right :(
4|After doing too of much research I went for this device.. I was quite reluctant to buy 1+, but after watching reviews on yt, designs of other one plus handsets, I took risk and bought. But to tell u guys.. I mean happy.. Really happy with this de This device is a true winner below 20k segment. Pros: >AMOLED-clear black.. Oh it kills really! >design and weight.. It's perfect >Battery backup is not fully tested. But when I slept at 2 and woke up at 8 morning.. No drop.. Seems great Android Dose implementation. I am a moto lover. I have used all moto g . But what I can say that moto has degraded their device quality in g3. It's truly waste. Poor display.. Poor camera... So if u r trying to buy g3..just add 3k extra to get this guy..
4|The USP of this phone is it's looks. It's one of the best looking 5" androids currently in the market. Have been using it for 1 month now and haven't noticed any lag even during heavy loads.The phone is very smooth to operate and the software is almost without any significant bugs and the display is gorgeous. Call quality is pretty good, although call volume could be a little more louder. WiFi and 3G connections are pretty good. The only thing I didn't like is the battery life.In 3G/WiFi usage, the battery is draining pretty fast. My phone usage is as follows: Charge the phone to 100% in the morning. Connected to 3G from 8:30 to 5:00. Few calls and net browsing in between. The phone drains out of juice somewhere around 3:00. Other than this, there are no other problems.
4|You get what you pay for. The loudspeaker isn't audible enough. Usually use it while driving and hasn't been very effective and everytime I would have to call them back when I stopped the car. The 3GB ram isn't very effective as I have seen some lapse while playing games and the phone taking its time to respond. Weight is bit on the heavier side considering the competitors in the market. Sad that we can't use any charger except for the ones that comes in the box. But having said that, the charge on the phone is very effective. I go around plenty of calls and extensive usage of emails and it lasts a day and half easily. As I stated that you get what you pay for, at a price of 17k this is worth it but there are still plenty of other options in the market with a lesser price range.
5|this is a best smartphone. the only issue is OS. Oxigen OS need lot of improvisation I was using Xiaomi RedMi 1S, when i bought it ( one year before ) was having same issues with OS , but the latest MIUI7 is very smooth same like Xiaomi , Oneplus will improve their OS in coming days. About Camera, like everyone is saying , daylight performance is 100% but night / low light performance is 45% hope this will resolved in next update ( marshmallow ) lot of basic software features are missing like Audio Recorder File Browser with FTP call recorder Oneplus must correct the Video compression issue , i mean 3 min video is taking 500+ MB's, which is huge. Final Verdict Hardware 100% Software 45%
4|Amazon delivery was outstanding. Product meets expectation as well. Only problem i noticed with this model is the delay / time lag while unlocking the phone. It hangs for a few seconds before it unlocks Other than that no other issues. Works perfectly alright.
4|The phone is awesome,if anybody wants to buy the invite, mail me urgently at vijay.jha25@gmail.com
4|I was a bit apprehensive in buying the phone at first given the mixed reviews I had come across but went ahead and took the risk. True that the phone has an average battery and an average camera but the other features and its looks (oh wow!) Really make up for it. The front camera is awesome for taking selfies and the back camera works equally well in well lit surroundings. The OS is kickass and the performance is more than satisfactory. Moreover I personally prefer phones with smaller screen size which makes this model perfect for me. As for the looks, they seem to have copied the iphone design to the extent that some people even asked me... Hey u bought an iphone!! Dont listen to the people who give this phone a bad review, what more do you want from a phone costing 17 k!!
5|Best Phone to Buy ! Worth its Price .. light weight .. best touch .. smooth camera..( no faulty flash , like one plus 2 which i bought earlier) best GLASS backs ..gives uh a rich look !! It gives a Rubber cover it ..which is Quite nice BONUS!!
5|Pros of Oneplus x Great oled display, it is one of the best full hd display. Great metal and glass built, feels great in hand and looks beautiful. Very good processor snapdragon 801 along with great GPU adreno 330. 3 GB ram for fluid multitasking. Dual sim and 4G LTE support. 16 GB internal with microsd card support upto 128GB. Very lite and functional oxygen os on top of android lollipop 5.1.1. 13 MP rear camera with 1080p and 720p 120fps slow motion video recording. 8MP front camera for great selfies and video calls. All essential sensors and connectivity option. Cons of Oneplus x NO NFC support. NO USB TYPE-C. NO fingerprint sensor. NOT water resistant. Same slot for second sim card and micro sd.
5|Anyone who already bought the phone by invite can send the invites to the buyers too who are in need .. Please if i could get an invite from any of the buyer .. Anyone .. I am waitin for this phone for quite a long tym .. !!!! Thanks to anyone who can help .... !!!
4|It is beautifully build phone looks really premium in hand Cons, 1.Invite system. 2.Phone heats a lot with gaming.If gaming is your criteria this is not a phone for you. 3.Memory card not recognized(Software issue hopefully removed by a OTA update soon). 4.Very slippery phone & finger print magnet (Case provided with the phone is highly recomended). 5.Camera is an average performer decent in daylight but suffers a lot in lowlight conditions. Pros, Apart from the above stated the phone performs pretty well Considering its price its an excellent buy Looks like a more costly phone. If you're not a heavy gamer go for it :) By the way packaging was awful reached me with folds but surprisingly box containing phone is fine.
1|Terrible phone. In less than one month of having bought this phone, it hangs and automatically restarts almost every day for the last 4 days and sometimes even more than once a day. The customer care provided 2 things to do and inspite of that it continues to function badly.
3|One plus is a nice slick phone with good battery life. The only problem I faced with it was the charger. It works sometimes sometimes don't. Unfortunately for me whenever I visited the service center it starts working so I did not get any replacement or repair for the issue.
4|Gud phone used 4 days only , but facing some speaker issue when loud speaker start between calling, and in between we stops, at that time opposite person unable to hear our voice.. And I have face this issue many times In 4-5 days only.. And some heating problem also.
4|Cons: 1. Same slot for second sim card and micro sd 2. major Issues Battery we have to charge two or three times a day ifu are a high end user 3. unable to transfer app from intral to SD Pros 1. Great oled display, it is one of the best full hd display. 2. Great metal and glass built, feels great in hand and looks beautiful. 3. Very good processor snapdragon 801 along with great GPU adreno 330. 4. 3 GB ram for fluid multitasking. 5. Dual sim and 4G LTE support. 6. 16 GB internal with microsd card support upto 128GB. 7. Very lite and functional oxygen os on top of android lollipop 5.1.1. 8. 13 MP rear camera with 1080p and 720p 120fps slow motion video recording. 9. 8MP front camera for great selfies and video calls. 10. All essential sensors and connectivity option
2|Merits: Quality display, Attractive sleek design and easy, faster to operate. Demerits: unlock is slower / device hang, call quality & battery IMPORTANTLY - we use mobile for Mostly calling purpose which it doesn't play a role as best to use for calling. Most of the time the quality of the call is very poor. either we cant listen the voice of the other end or the recipient complaint the hearing voice is too low. even after i exchanged with new device. I suggest to skip One plus X if any one is looking to buy. no value for money in this product. also you can check the one plus forum everyone complaints the same issue and no support from one plus team sofar. If you are crazy on one plus then One plus one & two is best option.
4|Extensively using fr past 2 days... At the price it is an amazing phone.. The killer looks, beautiful bezel, bubble up display. It looks so delicate, you will be scared to even touch it after unboxing. If you need an allrounder phone and looking fr something classy. Your search ends here. Uncompromising quality is what sets this phone apart. Performance is quite top notch, from multitasking to online video buffering and seamless lte connectivity, indian model has no problem with bandwidth. One less star is coz of after market accessories as we r d very first one plus x users... Hope there would b better news in future. It is a monolith and keeping it that way is difficult. A beautiful phone just love the way it holds n looks. Hope u do the same.
3|Excellent phone but I am finding problems with display. Screen goes blank once a day.I am using the phone since 3 days.I need to restart each time.so I have ordered for replacement. Hopefully the new phone doesn't have this problem. Rest all features are Awesome.
5|Hi, I first had a hiccup in actually receiving the phone because I received an empty box. But I took the risk and re-ordered the phone and on getting the phone I realized that it is worth the 2nd chance. It has been a month since I have been using the phone and i would like to say that this phone is a KO. The looks are super elegant and the phone has a sleek body. The phones does not lag at all even while playing games. The camera(both front and rear) are stunning though the low light pictures are a little hazy at times but overall the camera is good enough if you are not looking for professional style photography. Overall I am fully satisfied with the phone and would recommend it anyone who is seeking a mid-range phone(or even a higher range one).
4|Very elegant looks... The phone came with a screen guard so the thing u read in run e reviews about it being a fingerprint magnet did not really apply and it was a pleasant surprise... It even came with a back cover so the one I ordered extra is still unpacked.. Fits the palm perfectly, , battery is standard and lasts a day on basic usage + Internet (general usage like whatsapp, twitter, 9gag etc).. On the downside the Phone does freeze some times and it does not have a built in gallery (you have to rely on the Google gallery which only works when u r online and some photos I downloaded disappeared).. The home button sometimes does not work and u have to press twice or thrice to get the lock screen. Overall, good phone for basic usage at the price paid..
4|Awesome for for the price Pros: - Phone dose not come with too many unwanted pre-loaded apps(which can not un-installed) and come to you as a clean android phone. - Awesome 13mp rear camera(equivalent to 21mp Moto x style cam) and 8Mp front cam. - Great display ( you will surely fall in love with it). - Good battery life for a 2525mah battery. Lasts for almost a day even with continuous. - No lags when shifting btwn the apps. Cons: - Dose not come with some basic apps Like Gallery app and is relied on file viewer android. - Camera do not flash.(But still low light images look good) Verdict: If the above 2 cons are fixed in future release fixes of the OS then it is a awesome phone to go for.
4|hello friends i just got this phone within 3 days..box packing was good and as per expected it was okay...i was opened packing and start to using it and checking it whats happen next.? up to 30 days...as per amazon replace offer.. very nice phone look like i phone category...features are very good.. touch is lovely...like to touch it all time i want to share that one plus x company that pls provide ear phone if possible and extent bettery power up to 30000mah.. plus ROM should be 32GB is must as per today's need...pls provide if u can this things if add from ONEPLUS than it will m ore use to phone as per need... over all it is really really wonderful phone in this price and category...under 20k..let hope for best till 30 days...thanks
3|Hardware is good, but lacks the performance when we do high cpu operating apps, frequently restarts when it has memory or cpu intense process, heats up faster when charging and heavy usage, battery drains quicker so need to have power-bank as a backup for daily use.
3|Power Button doesn't work well, front camera is good, but rare camera is big disappointment- flash is not working while taking photos but it works while recording, after using it for 4-5 days I have decided to return it. Also battery wouldn't last more than 12 hours
4|Beauty with brains!!! I bought one plus x champagne today.its performance was awesome.camera was good compared to all budget phones.Appearance of the phone was damn good.Battery life of the phone is ok.Slow motion sensor is not ok.overall it is a worth to buy.
5|Love with this phone. It's very fast and I love gorilla amoled display. It has got bright and lovley colors on screen.. It has got a rich feel. Lovely front and rear camera. Very good investment. I simply love this powerfully beautiful device..
5|siddheshvijaykudtarkar@gmail.com
3|The X stands for experimental and maybe that's why it's okay to give OnePlus the benefit of doubt here. It's their first experiment, after all. But we've all come to expect a certain standard of products from OnePlus and the X just doesn't cut it. I bought one, used it for around a week and had to return it. The Good: Decent performance, feels good in the hand, 8MP front camera. The Bad: Not the best AMOLED screen, the rear camera isn't up to the mark. All in all, a strictly average phone from a company we know can do better. Couple that with the invite system and it's not really worth the effort. That being said, I have invites that are valid up to 3 days from now. Let me know if you need one.
5|Amazon delivered it before the estimate date. Been using the phone for a little over 1 week now and so far I'm very pleased with it. The battery is enough to last me through the day with normal usage(few phone calls, web browsing, listening music, watching videos from both my phone and online. Performance is smooth and no lag whatsoever. Although I cannot speak for people who like to play graphic intensive games as I hardly play games. My only concern was the back panel which I think is a glass, as it is a bit slippery without the stock case which comes along with the phone. Other than that, I have no regret getting this phone. Side Note: Now all my siblings want to exchange their phones (HTC One M7, Honor 4X, Xolo Q1010i) with mine. :)
5|Great device. Perfect for my usage. Correct size to be held comfortably in the palm and very fast. Battery lasts from mornign till night with 3G on full time.It comes with factory applied screen guard and protective cover which is a big plus. Best phone under 20k
3|Hi guys before buying this product you should know about the product properly, I bought this product on 9th, I appreciate amazon for delivering the product within a day. I am happy with the design especially metallic finish , display quality . Coming to the software of this smartphone, it is Oxygen OS which is built on top of android lollipop 5.1.1 but this OS has lots of bugs. camera quality is very bad especially in low light condition, quality of image is equal to 5 MP image. and battery drains very fast , they could have given 3000mah. If u use camera or internet for some time it will get heated. cant move apps to the memory card. still there are more issues with software like this. So plz make sure of above information before u buy the product.
5|Bought the phone on 28th nov. here is my review after using it for over a week. Pros: 1. Build and look is awesome 2. Front camera is very good. 3. I found the shelf feature handy - no need to search for apps from the menu. 4. SD card issue is fixed Cons: 1. Rear camera could have been much better - not sure if its a software issue. if yes i hope it will be fixed sooner. Some people are complaining about battery life and heating issues, but I did not notice any such issues. Battery life is good with normal usage(wifi on for 5-6hrs with dual sim - battery % reduced by about 10%). Phone warms up a little if used continuously for 30-45mins Overall its a very good phone to buy at this price range.
4|Writing this review after using this phone for 8 days! There's no doubt in saying that this is an amazing device by One Plus at this price. If you've an invite? Just go for it. Without even thinking for a second or comparing with other devices. I had compared this device with Moto X Play, One Plus 2 and One Plus 1 as well and found it working better. Camera is undoubtedly great but could've been more better. It's same as Apple Iphone 5s in light. Battery life is an issue. You've to charge your it twice a day if you don't even let screen relax for a min. Heating problem usually occurs when you charge it with some other charger or usb instead of charger given with it. All in all, it's just amazing. Go for it. Like this review if it was helpful.
5|We had one plus 2 earlier then we ordered X what a phone we just fell in love with the design and build quality , one plus x with Amoled screen looks awesome. Very handy to use, great camera and battery life. This phone is best phone under 20k just grab it.
5|i have been using this phone since a month.. i am extremely happy with its functioning.. i was looking for a classy phone under 20k and this fit my list of requirements.. the speed of the phone is good and overall its a fine performer.. however, one drawback is that the battery struggles to last thru the entire day if there is heavy app use... still i find this quite handy size and weight wise and value for money.. one important thing to note here is that although its dual sim, the second sim is an alternative between a sim slot and a micro sd card slot. so if u use two sims then u r stuck with the 16gb phone memory. if u use single sim then u can expand external memory. in any case, u can also use an otg usb to get rid of this problem.
4|Fantastic one with little compromises!! I like the form factor of the Device, feels more Comfy than n5! Cam is better in day light decent in low light Battery is above average Os is less smooth compared to nexus 5 Warms a bit in normal use The gaming performance is not up to what a opo can, but a ota could solve this issue!? The display woah!! Semma and saves few amount of battery definitely Extremely slippery, gonna slap a case on it soon !! Love the alert slider but missing the backlit of butons tho you l get used to it after few days of usage.... The price umm, i dont think it is cheap as dirt as it was hyped but definitely worth the money than op2
4|The only alternatives for most would be the moto g (3rd gen), or the moto x play. I decided to go for this mainly coz it was the only one offering AMOLED display. I got the product the next day after I had placed the order. Pros: Design and build, display, performance, expandable storage feature Cons: Occasional stuttering while recording videos (guessing it's a software issue), lack of features like NFC (U may not use it, but when phones that were released 3 yrs back, have it, it should have been included), oneplus invite system can be annoying PS: it is too early to comment on the battery, but it's been decent so far. Should give 4 hrs of screen on time at least for a normal use.
5|Amazon - Amazing One Plus - X Rating (X being Hot) The combination of an amazing shopping experience on Amazon, got multiplied by an amazing piece of Art via One Plus X. A phone that's mind blowing in design and features, power packed and valued right. A generation of high end products has captured the market till now, its time for the best phones getting cheaper and innovation being valued. Thanks to Amazon for bringing this to us, and thanks for the Team One Plus for continuing to innovate. I think, people will believe when this lands in their hands. Seamless integration of technology and price. Use to believe it. Reviews are important, but you cant decide just by that. I am blessed to have this product.
5|I ordered this phone on 5th January and it delivered on 9th. Beautifully packed. After using this Mobile for 2 days I am going to write a review on the basis of my use. Display: very sharp and good. Size: I can use it with my one hand Look: BEAUTIFUL very very beautiful phone Battery: after getting phone I charge it fully on 9th and use normally as my usage and yes connected with WiFi all the time, phone & apps are updated, then today in morning (11th January) at 10 AM battery was 18%. I plug it in charge, fully charged after one and half hour. Lightening Speed.no lag till now. Touch: Very smooth In short it is the best phone I have ever use any phone in this price. Thanks to Amazon and one plus.
4|Very beautiful phone with minor software glitch which would be resolved soon by software update. I had to return due to official email application not working which is essential for me. I will buy again in future when One Plus X will be fixed with software update. Lot of pros so won't highlight much however couple of cons for now. It does heat up with moderate internet use and you can feel near to ears Memory card does not show up under storage option which is unusual It should have been with dual SIM and internal memory of 32 or 64 GB instead of extension because Ideally no use if people are using two SIM. Based on the hardware it is worth the price.. However software need lot of rework.
5|loving this phone so far! (its been about 2 weeks). Was a bit worried about the battery, with my high usage, but it is keeping up quite well (i end the day at about 25%) its sleek, stylish and seems lightning fast after my motog2. so, yay! :)
4|The phone is amazing...you will love its picture clarity and general use. Battery life is not an issue at all (just don't keep the brightness too high) and it looks spectacular. The problems are as follows You cannot save web pages for offline reading, a feature that was there in my previous Sony Ericson Neo V which I bought in early 2012. You can use either a second sim or the memory card....not both....if you use 2 sim cards then the phone has 16 GB internal capacity....this in long term for w person who likes to carry as many songs as I do, may run out. Overall the phone is amazing...I have focussed more on negatives so as to be meaningfully helpful to a person considering buying this phone :-)
5|Bought it on the same day it was launched. I feel this is the one of the best android phones. Looks are stunning ... m crazy for it Performance is very good... No lags Display is so vibrant .... that you can not watch it with full Brightness IPS LED display is visible from even 179 degrees Touchscreen is as smooth as feather touch Camera is the best in Class.. Focusing works well.. and Video shooting also works better there is Time Lapse Interval photography option as well Sound in Headphones and Speakers is pretty appreciable.. loud and clear Seems overpriced comparing to its competitors.. but its better than even it claims
3|The product is decent and looks good. Battery life is nice and it fulfills my needs from a phone. I had one issue with Amazon, they had promised a back-case and screen guard as a part of the accessories however I received the device without any screen guard. Same thing happened with one colleague of mine, however some other friends of mine did receive the screen guard. It seems there is a lack of consistency in service and delivery from Amazon/One Plus. On contacting Amazon customer care, I was promised a gift card of Rs 200/- however it is yet to be credited despite two calls to the customer care. Also a normal earphone could have been part of the accessory from one plus (suggestion).
4|won't take lots of to describe the device it's:- display -AMOLED display really vivid with great gamma spectrum so colours are really true . battery-its good but not that great for a heavy and intense user internal specs -the processor is a old gen processor but it packs a big punch so no big deal. dual sim -it's up to the individual to decide because the 2nd sim is either a sim slot or a memory card slot.(this is one of the cons as well) camera -both cameras are really great but the camera ui is not doing judgement to the potentials of the camera. DESIGN-ITS THE BEST THING ABOUT THE PHONE REALLY SLIM REALLY NICE IN HAND FEEL BUT (PHONE FEELS GREAT AND ONE HAND USE IS OUTSTANDING.
4|INCB-9DE5-CFA0-59B0 Claim it to buy oneplus x. You won't regret buying this device.
5|Amazing phone under 17000. Great camera, great battery. I used the phone whole day and the battery just got to 45'. There are no lags. Asphalt 8 is running very smooth on high graphic setting. Selfie camera is mind blowing better than OP1 and OP2.
4|Amazon Team is amazing with quality and Product shipping. A Great Phone. I think it is perfect to hold in One Hand with an Amazing Build. Battery is Great but since I work mostly on phone, little less for me to last a whole day without worry of charging. But a Great Phone INDEED. I wish they could have given finger print sensor with the cost. But then for this build quality might be difficult to plug in all features and keep the cost low. Amazing Price and Configuration package. Moto X Play with more cost comes with Snapdragon 615 and 2 GB Ram, this has Snapdragon 810 with 3 GB RAM. So just an Amazing Package, if you like Handy phones, Great Built, A very Good Camera and a Very GREAT Amoled Screen Display...
5|The phone is great,have been using for more than a week now.Looks are exceptional esp the rear end and absolutely classy. I have got an additional shareable invites,if anyone looking to buy one.Send an email to sibisaseendran@gmail.com
5|This phone is awesome!! Nothing to complain. One thing you should care about is screen guard, coz there are only few screen guard in a market. Actually I bought official one which sold by one plus with the phone , but after unboxing the phone's box I found that screenguard had already attached on the phone originally. So you don't need to buy at first. I compared those screen guard which attached originaly and which I bought from one plus, and I found that the quality of them were same. If you want matte or temper one, then you should buy, the quality of original screen guard is far from awesome. Enjoy your one plus x life!! Thank you..
5|After 2 days of usage..this is my best fone ever..display is marvelous.. U can even tell your friends that its 4k..yes its that much good..the bezels are very thin and the glass blends at the edge( remember the edge? :p )..so it looks awesome.. I don't need to explain build quality..its not a gaming fone though.. Not by specs but by style..it looks a loy professional..but you can still play nova3 etc.. Ui- simply awesome.. Battery backup don't look good on paper..but real world performance is lott better.. Camera- i does the job..but absolutely not for the camera freaks. But honestly its more than enough some.. Overall if you want style and peace of mind..this is the one for you..
5|I was a bit sceptical about the screen size at first but after receiving the phone I was blown away by the screen clarity and vibrant colours of the amoled display. Images are crisp, touch response is outstanding and there is no lag at all. The only drawback is you can't use two sim cards at a time if you choose to use micro SD card. Battery is decent and easily lasts for a day. Oxygen os is similar to cyanogen but with a few more gesture controls which are pretty cool. Speaker is loud and cam quality is decent but low light photos could have been better. No heating problems till now, thanks to the underpowered processor but that won't be a huge problem unless you are a hardcore gamer.
3|1) Gets hanged when we are switching to flight mode 2) Flash button problem in camera - sometimes it works, sometimes it wont 3) No multiple selection allowed in text message for delete option 4) camera is good in daylight only
5|OnePlus X is a great phone. It is a value for money product, it is even better than what we pay for. Its design and build quality is great and features of the phone are one of the best. Pros:- 1.Great design & build quality. 2.Very good display 3. Very good camera in outdoors and good lighting conditions. 4. Good performance, no laggy experience at all. 5. Very good audio quality. Cons:- 1. Camera gives poor results when lighting conditions are not good, but it gives great results when lighting conditions are good. 2. Invite system is a problem for impatient people, but we can get an invite easily in one or two days after registration for an invite
2|The phone is getting heated up very fast and also the battery drains out soon, it doesn't even stand for an entire day that too with normal usage and by that mean no gaming..... Please look into this matter and if possible replace the device
4|Great mobile. Bright and sharp display due to AMOLED screen. Battery backup is also great. Mine stays more than two days on moderate usage. You can fully customize the desktop and style using a launcher such as Nova Launcher. Thus I removed the google search bar which was persistent in default launcher. Only one drawback I experienced was the low mic sensitivity. People I called complained abt low voice at other end, But I could hear them clearly. I think it is due to the noise cancellation settings. Some also says disabling "Ok google" solved it. Anyway I disabled it and now seems better. There is also a fix by editing build.prop. I have an invite to share. Contact me if anyone want it.
5|One plus x is amazing product. First awesome amazon delivered the product within 24hrs. Thanks to Vineet for providing me the invite. Talking about the product, this is awesome piece looks much costlier then it's bucks. It's amazing holding in hand. 5inch screen is perfect n full HD screen plus amoled display is x factor in one plus x, makes whole viewing experience just awesome. 3GB RAM just amazing response, one can play many heavy games simultaneously. Overall experience is just awesome. Only cons is slightly lesser battery which easily last one day for normal use, but doing heavy task it will dried up easily. Overall happy with device not worth buying in this buck.
3|Oneplus X is Powerful Beautiful but not at all a complete package. CAMERA is very bad and doesnt even match a 5MP standard.No modes in the camera as in ONEplus 1.So, if you want a phone with good camera dont buy this . Sound and audio quality is very bad.In terms of clarity it is fine,but audability is very low while call and music. Speed is good. Looks are perfect. I am regreting after buying this phone.Since i need a good camera and music. The phone also heats up after some time of continuous usage. Overall if you are using a good company phone before and you buy this, u can easily feel the chinese company charaterstics of Oneplus. Think before you buy.
5|UNBOXING Unboxing the One Plus X, I couldn't help but marvel at the beauty of the packaging and their attention to detail. You get a charger, a high quality flat-wired micro-USB cable along with the usual literature, and of course the One Plus X itself. One Plus has also included a translucent back cover, but some part of it seemed to stick to the phone and it looked ugly. I am unsure whether this happened with others. Anyways, One Plus has also included a factory-fitted clear- screen guard. But, be careful while peeling off the protective film, as you may remove the screen guard along with it. THOSE WHO WANT THE CODES MAIL ME @ HRISHI111193@GMAIL.COM. HAVE FUN BUYING
5|I have been using this phone since from the last two days....Here is a review on this phone 1.build quality is very good 2.Design and weight just awesome 3.Display quality is excellent 4.I have updated the os as well,the performance of the phone is damn good 5.Usb on the go loved it. I am worried about the battery, if i fully charge battery in the morning.On moderate usage like calling for 1 hour,wifi 1 hour,3g for 4 hrs a little bit social networking In the evening it is showing 35% battery remaining. Need to get an update for this issue. And im facing a little bit lag while im typing. And when i pinch zoom im facing lag there as well.
1|just few days back i bought it with 17000 now u r offering one plus x in 15000 u know nothing about custmour values oneplus is just a chines brand making huge profit from nothing. my phon is not charging well not setesfectory 13mp camara.
5|The best Phone for the price. Beautiful design, display, fast performance and no overheating issues. What more can you ask for this price. If this phone is hits your budget, don't think twice. just go for it. You will not be disappointed.
3|The phone is sleek, well-designed and has premium looks. I loved the support they provide for memory card in the SIM2 slot, thereby eliminating the need to leave the second slot empty if you don't have two SIMs. It doesn't weight like a brick, and fits nicely into your trouser pocket. The phone comes with a scratch guard and silicone back case, which is very welcome. It is said to run Oxygen OS that is built on Android 5.1 but I am not able to perceive how it is different from the regular Android OS. For all practical purposes, the OS works very much like a normal Android OS would. I would have preferred an earpiece with the kit, which strangely, they don't want to supply for some reason.
5|Its a class mobile ...the stunning look and make of the mobile ll make u go crazy for it...camera indoor gives on grains...rest its a smart buy for the amount u pay.....love it...amazon delivery was very fast..I recieved within 2days...
4|Phone is perfect as its features...... And I'm facing flashlight problem it's not working when I click for snap ....so amazon plz solve this problem for me and battery Backup is low as features more one plus Company should think abt battery life also and its non removable also......among this ......phone is OK perfect 1. Gud look and sexy look 2. Handy 3. Super fast 4. Play station set 5. Super clarity of front n rear camera 6. Excellent resolution Am unhappy with 1. Non removable battery 2. Poor battery backup 3. Flash light problem when I taking snaps Plz amazon n oneplus take care of this problem den this cell beat any mobile
3|Tried really really hard to love the phone but I would not recommend this phone because the amazon.in website says expandable to 128gb and it DOES NOT so far.... So I'm stuck with 16GB witch is already full!?! The battery is also not that great as it last me half a day and i would like to believe I'm an above average user. The worst part for me is when talking I always press the on/off button without releasing it and the call is over!?! the speaker sounds too tinny or too much treble. Again sorry to say its not for those people who can buy an iPhone as this always needs some attention. I will be using this phone only as a second backup. the only thing that super is the AMOLED screen
5|This phone here is a complete Masterpiece! The looks are classy and premium, feels so good to hold it! Smooth multitasking with no lag at all and the sharpness is mind blowing. No heating issues for me and also the rear camera is good enough, works okay! The front one is reallygood for selfies! Battery gets you through the day even with almost continous WiFi usage. In this price range this is the best phone in my opinion that you could get. I was previously using a 4000mah battery lenovo and changing from that to this I'm still really happy with this 2525mah battery. Customizations help you nicely too. Don't think much and buy this ! WORTH IT!
4|After a great amount of contemplation is when I decided to push the Buy Now button but I think it was worth it. Ordered this product around 11:45 PM on 27th Nov. Got the product delivered within the next 10 hours. Was very impressed with the delivery (Knowing that my previous experience with Amazon was terrible). Good packaging. Good Product condition. Few things I thought could've made OnePlus X an incredible product is - - Slightly better battery (Around 3000 mAH) - Better range of customization - The speakers effect (sound) could've been better. But all said n done... I'm sure I'm going to enjoy using this product. Definitely worth the money though.
5|It's more worth than the money you spend. Flawless, smooth experience. Here are some invites you can use. IN35-1628-7189-9817 INED-5942-4BE6-8CED IND0-DDF0-CBA9-5474 INCB-6630-5CEB-8AEE IN64-0BA8-F79C-385E
4|i have an invite with me those who need just contact me at mouli17aug@gmail.com
5|I guess I was one of the first one to get the Oneplus X in my hands and I guess the wait was all worth it !! This is my first change from an I phone to an android phone which was all worth it !!! The phone is just super awesome and I would ask anyone to buy it blindly considering its features , it has super camera , NO HEAT UP ISSUES . The phone comes with a classy look , a matt finish cover which is super cool . The volume is superb and so is the graphics are just to die for .. I will surely rate this phone as a 10 STAR PHONE , with the price , quality and features it give for me its a THUMBS UP all the way !!!
5|I must say it's an amazing device one can buy at this price, the features being offered conveniently surpassing the ones other phones offer in this price range. Till now I have been more than satisfied with it. The design of the phone gives it a very classy look, the processor and RAM work towards a very swift and smooth functioning, be it for the regular applications or the demanding games, the camera is pretty quick in clicking flawless pictures, the sound quality of the speakers is brilliant, the screen resolution renders everything a superior clarity and certain more features collectively make it a worthy buy. If you receive an invite, you can go for it without thinking twice.
4|I have problems with the reception. In office the network reception is low and my phone shows 'emergency calls only' where as my team mates with the same network (different phone) have reception.Is there something wrong with my phone?
1|A lot of expectation were there with this phone , specifically when its sold on the global preferred brand website Amazon. This phone does have have a minimum capacity of displaying the JPG images from SD card , these images were taken on Windows phone and this phone does not even have a basic ability to display the JPG images , such a huge name , but not having basic features is such a shame. I called up amazon care they have no clue , I called up One Plus X , they have no clue they asked to do a app refresh , asked to reset and also hard reset. Past three days I am struggling to see how I can get to see my several hundred pics on my sd card in the google photos buildin app.
5|Hello oneplus x users.....today I got new os update.... First of all I'm really very thankful to oneplus x team that they are really sorting every single issue on their beauty, this and before updates was resolved my previous issues like app moving, SMS call coast and all other lagging issues. I'm really very proud to be a oneplus x user.... From the beginning my mobile works 100% lag free and battery backup is cool...I always enjoy with my sexy phone.... No radiation issue, heating problems and very quick performance.... But Still I have only one problem with the mobile,that is camera flash is not working... Same issue for my friend. Below is my previous review: I love oneplus technical support /development team because they went through the customers reviews and launched new update for apps movable facilities....... I appreciate for resolving apps / storage issues, but I've one more issues with camera im not very sure that all oneplus X customers having the problem with flash light in camera application, the thing is while I'm taking photos i cannot see flashlight options anymore. I requesting you guys to update camera app (but for video recording it's working fine ) and also notification from networks like (when i text /call someone it doesn't shows me call coast /sms charges ). Please resolve above issues. Thanks for ONEPLUS X team good job.
5|After a lot of research I decided to purchase this phone, it very slim and handy phone, very light weight and beautiful looking, on the first day when i inserted the sim, the voice quality on call was blur but then i reinserted the sim and to my relief the voice quality has been perfect since then, its been a month today that i am using this phone, I highly recommend it for people looking for interface change, handy phone, good battery back up, reasonably good camera quality and very very fast processing, Go For It and enjoy the weightless experience !! PS : there is no service centre for this in Indore, so if that could also be addressed it would be great !!
3|Excellent product with poor battery backup. And heating up lk a iron box:) .. so I returned my product ... and waiting for refund from past 14 days. Till i not sure , how many days would tk to refund my amount by amazing amazon:)
5|Awesome smartphone with great specifications at low price ... Camera result is good but not very good ... Not lagging at all ... absence of USB type C is only minus point of it otherwise it is a great smartphone...
5|Its an awesome phone. With 3gb ram and snapdragon 801 it almost runs everything smoothly. And the main advantage of the device is to add the sd card which is again awesome. And the doesn't heat up much but gets a little warm some times which is very common in all android devices. It also comes with a protective case which is a good thing from the one plus team. Finally about the delivery, Even though i didn't go for a single day delivery the device was still delivered the next day which amazed me. Thanks to amazon for that. Final conclusion it is an awesome phone in this price range and out performs almost ever phone in this range. Be(a)st work from one plus team.
3|Got the phone 15days back. A great phone as per looks and performance. There is a heating problem though. Battery s ok for me as i am always on wifi or mobile data and use a lot of apps and play games. I have never felt a lag till date. Off late i have faced an issue twice the phone goes blank for a few minutes. When i try to call i cam hear a ringback tone in my calling mobile but theres nothing happing over in one plus, the screen goes dead during tat time. Haven't raised this issue to the one plus team yet will raise and see what they are saying for the issue. Else its a great phone with beautiful looks. Fix this issue of mine and i will rate it 5*
5|I purchased it recently with the invite.. Overall a sturdy build, killer looks, looks to be a mid range flagship with a design that even makes the flagships go in trash. Pros: Amoled display Nice sound Perfect Form Factor Great Battery Life Perfect Design Great Camera, looks the best Great Display 441 PPi, with amoled, is what you cant get even in a flagship. Over a day use, it run perfect, 3gb ram and 2.3 ghz makes it a perfect combo. Even with 40-50 apps, 1gb ram is free and games are lag free. No heating issue whatsover. Gets completely charged in about 2-2.5 hours. Value for money..!!!
4|Pros Professional looks and feel. Very good design. Right size to ft for single hand operation Cons Ring volume is not very loud especially not much audible in crowded/noisy location Camera performance is not up to the level in low light scenarios Battery drains out very fast. I have followed the best teaks available online to optimize the battery. OPX needs better optimization battery usage. The handset doesn't come with latest processor family. At least a higher battery capacity should have provided for this price range upcoming Lenovo k4 note would be a better spec with 4K less price. I missed this.
3|Not happy with the battery performance. Am a moderate user of the phone, mostly using whatsapp application and little bit internet in a day and maximum busy on phone calls. Till evening the phone has battery of around 15%-20%
3|Amazing phone with below average camera... Especially indoors... Worse than my old 8mega pixel note 3 neo's camera. If only the camera was good I would've kept this phone at least for the next 2yrs. Had to return this beauty.
4|it's been quite sometime that I have been looking for a reasonably priced 5 inch screen phone with elegant design, good build quality, light weight, great display with 400+ ppi, near stock android experience, decent camera, reasonable performance ( no gaming requirement). Oneplus X fits the bill minus the camera based on my experience of one day use. There is no lag while running and switching between apps, playing videos and battery runs for almost a day for normal use Note. SD card is not shown under the storage settings, but visible in file explorer. Photos cannot be saved on the SD card. Hoping that the next software update takes care of it.
5|Amazon delivery service is amazing I didn't expect it to arrive it so early thank you. Talking about phone its an awesome phone U can look up for all specs when you hold this device in hand it definitely have the premium feel as by all metal raly, build quality is superb. Glass back looks similar to xperia series & slippery as well. Internally amazing display than any other phone in this price range. User experience is buttery smooth from heavy gaming to switching between apps Thx to 3gb ram. As far now I didn't see any flaws in it. Any1 considering to buy this phone thumsup definitely go for it you won't be disappointed.
5|I love you oneplus X. Please don't think about the negative feedback from the people. From my opinion it's better to buy oneplus X for this price. Display and look and feel is stunning for eye's. I am enjoying my oneplus X.
5|Fantastic functional smartphone. Get Zen launcher by Asus and you have a brilliant phone. Beautiful ui. Download black player to replace useless Google play. P. So. I don't care for nfc or fingerprints scanner.
5|I have invite to be claimed in next 14 h Any one has one plus 2 invite
3|It's confused phone not sure it's good or bad. Plus ~ Ram, HD display, front cam, sound, design Minus ~ front cam bugs, heating, no headset, it's not daul sim it's daul sim or single sim with memory card.
5|Greats: Both front and rear Camera Excellent Build quality Clear call quality Stunning display Good battery, could have been packed with more juice Fine sound clarity Excellent speaker Trendy charger and great packaging. No lag what so ever while copying, toggling, viewing pictures, videos (I am not into gaming, so can't review game performances) Not so Greats: Dual sim or single sim + microSD, not both. Battery could have had more capacity. No earphones (recommend to buy a decent one to enjoy great music output) Overall, excellent phone from the makers. Good job!
5|Awesome phone in this price range. fully loaded with very good features and specs. 5"AMOLED display is super, Look of the phone is simply superb, Metal body with the glass on the back as well. but damn slippery if back cover not used. good usage of RAM(3GB). Very well interfaced and customized with Oxygen OS. Very Good Battery Backup (saying this after using the phone for 4 days. all day 3G data, Camera applications, whatsapp, mailing, calls. but without playing video games). the only issue is see with phone is inserting the nano sim and memory card inside the Sim tray. in simple its worth the money.
4|Received on a DIWALI day. A 15.5k buy is really worth. Display is beautiful. Touch is extremely smooth. Battery life is satisfactory. Will give you about 10hrs with 3g when new. Practically it is a single sim phone as second slot majority of us will use for micro sd card. Sound is good. It is extremely smooth to handle without back cover which is inbox accessory. Reasonably responsive when surfing and downloading. I am rating it at 4 star as the screen size is very small for my liking. If you are OK with 5" screen then phone is worth the price..
5|OnePlus X Expires in 01d 07h 28m 18s IN95-9FE8-FC62-160A njoy!!
4|Hello friends ... I purchased my one plus x (beast) on December 22 . till now I haven't faced any problems like hang out lag .. Hats of to 3 gigs of ram. Phone runs butter smooth and it handles each and every application without any lags or framedrops. But it has one drawback that is it's battery life .. It's somewhat average only but it is not bad or poor.. Nothing like that sort. It can give u one full day charge and apart from that we can't expect more from 2525 mah .. Apart from battery all the features of 1+x is a sure shot awesome phone for 15k. Camera is too good and I'm seriously waiting for marshmallow update to roll on in my 1+x
3|Expected 1+X to atleast be ahead of MI4 in every aspect as they have taken the same size and other features too. But it is not living as per expectations, though they said its pure metal its ribbed finishing on body with the color on it is not at all giving a rich feeling to the phone. Even the touch was not of the expectations, while on call the creen should go off but here the case was diffrent and it was resulting in to cut off the call going on, sometimes login to another call and sometimes speakers get on. We expect speed & performance of One+2 with the premium look of iphone in a bundle of next launch by oneplus team.
4|One of the best designed phones around. The metal frame is really solid. This phone feels better than many other expensive phones. The front camera is amazing but the rear camera is just above average The AMOLED screen performs very well I haven't encountered a bug or glitch in the Oxygen OS skin till now Dark theme is awesome Great value for money Battery life is quite good Things that "I" don't like:- 1. You only get like 11-11.5 GB memory out of the box 2. The touch-buttons aren't backlit 3. The back glass is a fingerprint magnet I want to give 4.5 stars out of 5
5|https://youtu.be/a2EBjhxo7-Q 3 invites 3rd december Hurry!!!!
5|I bought this android phone after 5 years, bcoz this is best android phone in this segment and last one was Samsung Galaxy S2 only as per my experience, now I am using iPhone 6s also but this phone will give you a premium feel like you are using big version of iPhone 4s. Look wise fully satisfied No hanging problem due to 3GB Ram Best price for this specification The only thing is that camera in this phone, camera quality is good but it's little bit slow as its big machine so it should be fast for clicking pictures but overall it's best machine in this segment and I will suggest to everyone to buy this beast.?
5|The phone is been really great. Pros - Good looking, the right feel weight wise and also screen size. The free cover was also a great bonus. The screen is awesome. Love it. Cons - The Cellular data keeps getting switched off. Also while roaming the phone by default selects the slowest network even if there is a higher speed network available. The camera is not that great, OK for small photographs. The volume seems low in certain calls. I have just migrated from iOS so the Android is still quite new for me, so learning it hope fully things will be become simpler with the time. Overall Happy with the phone far.
4|Amoled display on OnePlus one is beauty, Phone is slim and feel nice in the hand. Battery and camera are “normal”, nothing to brag about. Call quality is good Performance: if you are using single SIM then it is very smooth no lags. But when i started using it with dual SIM, i was facing lag while doing multitasking. X has a pre installed screen guard, didn’t expect but it also comes with Silicone back cover which is great by the way. Charging adapter and USB cable are far better than what OnePlus One had. Oxgen Os is good and I’m amaze, how fast they are fixing the bugs on X. Its super fast, i already had 2 updates.
3|I've have to say the gaming performance is poor. Even subway surfer lags. Over heats like crazy. I was playing a small cricket game called "World cricket champions 2" and it got overheated very quick and the display changed its shape forever :( Now my one plus x's display is not flat anymore. It looks like a dent :( I've contacted amazon about this issue but they haven't responded yet. They don't do exchange or refund cuz its already been 10 days :( My tip: If u've already bought this device, then don't ever play games until this device gets a few ota updates. Hope amazon will contact me and help with my issue.
3|No doubt phone is really good, but need to fix following issues SD issues not be able to move apps to SD card no option to move/redirect pics videos to SD card need to format SD card NTFS/FAT32
5|The phone is fabulous. I mean what else you can demand for a budget phone of Rs. 17000. I wont go into specs as it is same as what is displayed over the forum. My personal experience is the phone is very good and user friendly. I am very happy for buying the product. Pros: 1. Much better camera than Oneplus 2. 2. Lighter and sleek 3. Faster compared to peer phones 4. Battery is good. Charging also is fast Cons: 1. No headphone with the product. 2. Very delicate. Need pampering. 3. Heats up during multiprocessing. Forget cons, you will enjoy the Phone...!!
1|Defective product sent by Amazon my camera flash fires but produces an image with the patch of flash on the corners of image. I found this after checking my friends one plus x. He has a good camera.
5|It's great Mobile and fulfilling all needs . The Design , Look , Quality , the display and grisp on hand are so good. I used almost 10 days and no issue so far. The camera quality is pretty good compare to other mobile in the same price segment. may be some too techie ( thinking like that ) may tell some cons in this . But they are not truth and believe me this is awesome mobile and Value for money. One thing i can say - the manufacturer can provide the earphone as freebie with this beautiful mobile. Trust this will be Very good phone and just go ahead to buy. " ONEPLUS X " has many many Plus only.
2|I bought this after a lot of hesitation. But I had to return on the same day. Though the phone looks very attractive, I just couldn't feel like handling it. Even if I keep it on a flat surface, it's sliding. And another big issue is heating. The phone heats up like anything beside the rear camera. I just couldn't touch it. Over 37 degrees most of the time. It's cool only if I don't use it, what's the point? Also the animations are choppy despite 3gb RAM and a decent processor. I needed stock or near stock Android which oxygen OS had but unfortunately it wasn't meant to be. I need to start searching all over again.
4|The features are good. aesthetics is good, display, resolution, camera, etc are all good. What is disappointing is the battery performance. I would have expected a much better back up from One plus. If you connect to net especially 4G, battery drains very fast. Is is due to lollipop effect or 4G? Another disappointing thing was that you could use second sim or memory- not both. The features before launch was bit vague about this. Full marks for camera performance. There is also no silent mode. you have to set no interruptions, then no vibration also. you have to use a third party application to take care of this.
5|Awesome phone and real value for money! I was a die hard fan of iPhone and hated Android phones, but after using this I changed my mind. Phone's UI is smooth, performance is brilliant and totally I love it!
4|Nice smartphone but WiFi disconnecting often and need to reboot my modem to connect again. I am also using other devices but this product needs modem reboot. Any suggestion and need help..thanks.
5|Using it for more than a month now. Like it a lot, very good phone. Good quality, built is solid and looks are stylish. So far I have not experienced any lags. Perfect value at 16,999/-
4|Design - excellent Performance - antutu score(41424), oneplus one(49876). Display - wow Battery - easily lasts for a day.
5|Invites Live here : https://invites.oneplus.net/claim/INE6-3608-0141-A750 https://invites.oneplus.net/claim/IN57-9128-0809-6B7C https://invites.oneplus.net/claim/IN37-5FF4-BB82-EA8B Claim within 3 days !
5|Shifting from Windows to Android... This is an Excellent and must buy phone if your range is below 20k. Awesome performance and speed... Slim, not much weight, camera is gud.. overall gud phone
5|Though the cost of this mobile is bit at the higher side. The performance of the device is good. The design is cool, Camera and Display are awesome. However the software has few bugs on some of the basic features like 1. Change of network mode 2G/3G/4G , I clearly observe a lag for few seconds 2. No USSD notification after you disconnect call or send SMS ( for prepaid SIMs only) Other Cons 1. you can't use External SD if you are a dual SIM user :P (OTG helps) 2. No proper accessories as of date from OnePlus (tempered glass is pathetic from Oneplus for this model).
3|Just be truth full.. The phones bulid quality and looks... 5/5..awesome. Performance :, i don't know whether it's my alone poblem.. Sometimes it has some lag. But it's fine nearly 90% of time. But that lag is not expected. ? - 2500... Delivers me 16-17 hours. Full usage in 3g. Can't expect for more. Price: sometimes i feel overpriced when i see other mobile of this range.. But should not complain. Technolgy advances, price dcreases.. Camera: decent will Google cam app Overall decent awesome looking phone. Amazon: simply the best... 10/5
5|Great Product Indeed! This is one complete package and has every thing a premium phone should have. (Hyderabad residence only please) For Invites Contact me on Whatsapp or Call: +91 8885213494
5|Delivered before date. Good looks and shape, but got heated up on first app installation and update. No earphones with this phone. got a back cover along with it. Overall satisfied from last 3 days.
4|Great looks, Great feeling to have it. Fine product, gracefull features with reasonable price. So who admire beauty with brain then go for this product. You will proud to have this in your pocket not for other things. Nice performance, Nice camera. Very minute working on detailings like wide camera angle which is perfact to take a selfie. seriously this is product which i am waiting for and within wink it was in my pocket as well. So guys dont miss this opportunity to feel great with this product. Also Amazon's service quality is mind blowing. so quick and so reliable. Amazed by the Experience !!!!!
3|I received this phone on 8th Dec and been using it for last 3 days. I'm pleased with the accessories provided in the box like back cover and the built quality of charger and data cable. Now the handset is very light and beautiful with premium built and look. I find it very smooth in multitasking. I've not tested the camera quality to its fullest but find it satisfactory till now. One thing that I do not like is the battery backup. Keeping 3G on in the background almost always, it gives around 10-12hr of backup with no voice calling, no games, no videoplayback and about 30 minutes of music listening.
4|Fantastic Build quality. Slimmest phone I have ever used. Front camera was fantastic but rear camera was not up to the mark. I bought it 2 weeks back and till now the browsing speed was good as expected for 3 GB RAM mobiles. I have only problem when I connect my Sony MDR-EX110AP earphones to oneplus x, Volume increases / decreases / song starts / song ends / call ends everything happens automatically. This must not be a mobile problem, coz it use to happen even with my previous mobile, but for oneplus x its happening frequently. Considering all the above pros and cons I'll give 4/5 Rating.
5|I am one of the proud owners of Oneplus X. It is really one of the Best smartphones available in the world. Hats of to the other ellus team in particular Mr. CARL PIE CEO. It's performance is amazing.
5|I've been using the one x since last 2 days since I lost my most beloved One plus One . All pros for now here I miss double tap to lock though . Maxx audio is not here as wel , the Boxer free email app is also not here . Somewhere I do miss the cyanogen mod . Battery I can say much due festivities I was always connected more than usual so a morning change would die by night . The camera is really great specially the front really gives bright pics and nice ultra wide selfies , sound is less than Opo . Out of 16gig 11,5 is usable . Hope you enjoy this little beast
5|When my brother unboxed the phone in front of me I was super exited and when I got to feel it.It felt so good, I made my cum face, which happens in very rare cases, I was just blown away by all the devices that 1+ has made so far, just hope they don't disappoint me with the 1+x, which surprisingly when you google you get a graph not the phone. Also I don't understand why is there NFC on this and not the 1+2 Did I forget to mention that it has the best screen on a oneplus device, only if it was a little bigger and it had cyanogen(it can be flashed), it would have replaced my oneplus one,
4|After falling in love with my 1st One+ Product i went ahead and ordered the One+ X.....It was equally awesome and it was a surprise to see a proportion of the Phone which i never expected. Very easy to handle and the rear glass finish is making me hold on the hand for a longer time....frankly i dont want the clear cover they provided. However it was a disappointment in the speed compared to One+2....the Wi-Fi setting took more time and still is not updated...The Facebook App also took more time. The most disappointing part so far the "Camera without the Manual Mode" as i have it in One +2.
3|It's a amazing looking phone had to go through the self invite to get it. Its even faster then iPhone 6 but it lacks in couple of features, storage space is only 16gb in the phone either u can use 2 sim or 1 sim with external storage, also there is not headphones. Lenovo Vibe S blue available on Amazon is a better option its available without invite, it's 1000/- cheaper it's with 32 gb internal storage also can add external storage upto 128 gb, dual sim, camera and all the other features are same as OnePlus X only difference is looks Lenovo has 3000 to 4000/- Rs worth features more then OnePlus X
5|1St of all thank you amazon for your fast service in punjab. I got my phone prior one day of your estimated time. For product i would like to say one plus x is a mid range device with certain extra qualities as far as design is concerned nothing less than 5 ***** it reminds me of apple 5s and Sonyz3. Sound is in fact very good **** Camera is better than my note 3 and front camera is bonus ***** Battery is just above average *** I did play games and gaming is fine**** I'm Lil bit disappointed with this OS sometimes OS lags a bit. Overall happy with this phone.
5|Straight going on to the looks it is superb. Super design super to hold. Looking on to the device u will doubt it wheather it is a 5incher of not bcoz overall the phone is very small and easy to hold. Don't use the backcover it will be a insult to its looks. The display is crisp and u will certainly going to love it. The cameras' are both fine no complains for it. Battery is strictly average and there is some heating issues but I am not going to give it back just bcoz of the look and the satisfaction to hold it... after all u want a phone which looks like a phone.
5|OPX is probably the best phone in this price range. I have been using iphone for past 3 years and this comes as a surprisingly smooth transition. Pros: 1. Extremely responsive and fast. 2. Amazing display (trust me, it's at par with iPhone). 3. Good quality front camera. 4. Beautifully designed (feels amazing to hold). 5. Awesome gaming experience 6. Bang for the buck Cons- 1. Rear camera could be better (comparing with iPhone) , but it's still pretty top notch for the price you pay. 2. Battery (Dies out in a day) - full day 4G usage.
5|Its was a good deal to have a One Plus X during Diwali. I own a One plus 2 , this deal was for my relative who didnt want to spend 25000. The phone has a premium look and decent enough in day to day processing and gaming. Battery drains fast (less than a day). and no turbo charging and the phone heats up a bit. eventough with these draw backs its good to have one as all phones of this range have heating issues. I m least bothered of turbo charging. Battery drain is also a common issue among all handsets. but the hardware and customiztion provided by this phone is awesome. hence worth a buy
5|I was one of luckiest person to get the oneplus X invite the day it was announced in India. I got my phone very next day it was launched. Coming to the phone, its the best phone ever produced by oneplus. The design is mind blowing but it attracts a lot of fingerprints. It's very slim and even though it doesn't have the processing power of oneplus 2, its pretty decent. Also, the phone doesn't get heated like OP2. Overall a very nice phone and I'm sure you will not disappointed with it. All it lacks is a fingerprint scanner if you can live with it then this phone is second to none
5|Hi frds... I have one plus x... But I feel I have iPhone 6... One plus x looks iPhone,... Touch is super... Amazing design and good display quality...gud cam(front and rear) ... Simply super......
5|Looks wise hands down this is the best n of course 5' is always easy to handle. Works like a gem .. super smooth n most importantly No heating or battery drainage issues !! It comes with a company fit screen guard n also transparent back case in the box .. don't have to go searching for those mandatory accessories. I was a little disappointed with the 2nd sim/micro sd card as i wanted both of them. (May be to differentiate it from op2) And the physical buttons are not backlit.. 5 stars to Amazon... i got the mobile in 10 hours..beat that !! Won't get a better one within 20k price range.
3|Review after Less than an weeks usage: The Ringtone is abnormally / unusually low despite the volume set to max. Rest all other things seem to work fine for now. Will post a detailed review later.
4|Great performance till date. It's been 2 week user interface is smooth & comfortable .. Look wise its fantablous but without back cover your phone will slip due to sleek shiny back. Battery back up is average not great. You can't keep 2 sim with expandable memory card tray only facilitate 2 sim or 1 sim with memory card. One major drawback while listening music your phone gets interrupted when you like, post or share something on Facebook. It's really strange. Phone doesn't have headset so get ready with old to enjoy the music. Overall speed performance is really nice & simple to use.
4|I have been using the oneplus x from the past 7 days and i have found the pros and cons. Pros:- 1. Display 2. In hand feel 3. Performance and gaming 4. Camera for photography Cons:- 1. Software is not stable and has some bugs 2. Camera for shooting videos is not good 3. The hardware keys are not backlight Note in terms of battery life it's neither a pro nor a con, it will last you for a full working day with 3.5 to 4 hours of screen on time. Now for more detailed video review head on to my channel youtube.com/nextgentech3009.
5|An awesome phone... I have an invite valid upto tomortow.. If anybody is interested, just send an amazon gift voucher of Rs.1000 on my mail id idnp@yahoo.com Be fast if you wish for invite code
5|i've been using this phone for the last 48 hours and i'm in love with it :) i've owned a moto g (2014), mi4i and xperia s before and none of them come close to it in build quality and smoothness one con i can think of is that the glass back is EXTREMELY slippery in addition to being a fingerprint magnet. for people who don't use a case this might create a problem. additionaly, battery life is satisfactory, sound output through speaker is loud and good but nothing amazing, same for the audio jack earpiece and mic quality is also good screen is just gorgious :)
5|After a month of usage, I found some pros and cons. Pros: Performance with zero lag Premium look Build quality Full HD AMOLED Display 3GB RAM Good call quality Cons: Can't use 2 sims and a memory card same time. have to sacrify one solt for either 2nd sim or memory card. Camera could be better. Heating on playing heavy graphical games. (It is common for smart phones with more than 2 processors and the heating issue is not unbearable in OPX) With back glass the phone is very slippery and have to care full all the time.
3|Got disappointed with battery backup....Performance was good enough.. For an average user it may last a day, But if you are a heavy user with full day WiFi or mobile data,browsing and a bit gaming... The battery won't stand too longer.. cons are: Weak camera Battery Life the phone won't last the whole day..if we charged the phone 100% on morning also it won't last till night. It will only last's till evening.. So if you are a heavy user then u should choice Moto x play. And i requested for the return of the Oneplus X....Because of Battery life
1|The phone refuses to charge - tried different chargers, tried charging through laptop but no luck. The display and the notification LED is blank and as the battery discharged to 0% after the system update, and apparently this is a software issue. Waiting to take the phone to the service centre since all the suggestions given by the customer care guys were tried to no avail. I have never had such a bad experience till now and believe me, if I could give a 0 star rating for this, I would. The initial excitement after receiving the phone came crashing down. Just like the phone.
5|I sincerely intended on getting this not much hyped phone for myself as I was planning on retiring my workhorse BlackBerry. That didn't happen. Instead my mum (a doc with a phone that barely has much to talk about) absolutely loved the way this phone looked. So after not too much of a fight she made the switch and has been hooked ever since. Her only feedback "it looks so contemporary but feels uncomplicated" That I think says just about all that you can say with this marvellous piece of engineering...! Thanks One+ for the invite and thanks amazon for the same day delivery.
5|okay i must say the built quality , user experience is top notch i am completely satisfied with this product and this is coming from moto x user so again the customization is fantastic though i would have preferred cyanogen but still oxygen does a better job of giving what user needs. there were certain areas where i aching to buy this product at first place but after an small update the issue for sdcard and app 2 sd issue has resolved . hardware wise not many complains battery stays for a day , but it tends to heat up wee bit while playing high end games but which phone doesnt.
4|Design is very good but find some lag during Unlock the screen, battery is good, no heating,display very good, need more os update's, camera is OK for me as I am not a professional photographer
1|Within 8 hours of use the phone pooped in to safe mode 5times leaving with the doubt that this phone is not up to the mark in terms of quality I also own opo which has never shown such fault in 10 months of usage I regret my decision of buying this phone for my wife never expected such quality from OnePlus team and worst service from amazon asked for return yesterday suppose to pick today but nobody showed inspite of appointments between 2pm to 5pm.
5|*** Stunning looks, fashionable for sure. *** The build for the phone feels solid *** Glass front and back, *** Attracts a lot of a fingerprint. Luckily there is a Silicon Case provided in the box. *** I would not use the Phone without a protective case. *** Performance The phone is smooth and fluid, Does heat up on the top left corner when gaming for 30+ Mins, *** Dual Sim works fine. Please Hit the “YES” button If you found this Review Helpful. It encourages me to inspect more and more products so that you could have only the Right Products.
3|Multiple issues with UI and software of one plus x. There are few things which are good but overall I don't think the software and UI are matured enough. Applications suddenly crashes, gestures don't work most of the times, network info when phone is locked is different than when it's unloked, worst interface from call handling and messaging...no ease of use at all, device settings shortcut icons sometimes come of their own on top of screen when you are calling......it just irritates.........looks like long journey for one plus x to get a stable software and a user friendly UI.
4|I am not even getting battery life for 8 hrs standby mode and while using 3-4 hours continusly... One plus team fix this problem soon. And I don't estimate how's deep it sucks even I use LTE
5|One plus is living to its expectation of giving flagship phones. They havent come down on quality which is what is needed for a flagship manufacturer. I hope they don't follow what xiaomi did.
4|Handy is looks beautiful and comfortable in single hand and battery is good back up till 6 hrs on WiFi or more than 10hrs on 3g data mode. Camera looks little complex at begining but once start using it good at exposure. And the 3gb ram is so usefull to avoid logs. The draw back is it produces little warm while charging. The dual Sim has to change. Now it has one fixed Sim and other is optional for sd card or second Sim. Better to fix it. With fixed dual Sim slot and additional SD card slot is more helpful. Try it fix it. Overall the mobile is worth full to our money.
5|Amazing device, the world's best budget phone ever! Below its a panorama Feels light weight and great to hold
3|Everything else is good except camera flash light. It does not flash whlie i take a snap and also flash on/off option appears on screen in video option but not in camera. Very disappointing.
5|This is a bloody beautiful phone, the focus is clearly on the design here and not on bleeding edge technology. (Core specs are almost same as the Mi4) Primary camera is second to that of Mi4, Seco AMOLED Display is crisp and sharp UI is very very snappy but icons are larger that I prefer (I don't prefer their resolution so had to root my phone and fix that to my liking and now its just epic) I handle my mobiles well and haven't dropped them much but this one it too thin and too light so I prefer having the ugly silicone back cover on for the time being.
4|Amazing quality of camera.speed is good overall handling good .playing of games handset heating down side of two speakers one is operated 2nd one is not working so many handset same problem.
3|One Plus is a recent brand which made a very good remark in the Smart Phone market. I got influenced to buy one of the One Plus mobile by its Unique design and its accessories, everything is fine but has lot of bugs with OnePlus X model i have bought recently, issues i am facing as follows, Data Connectivity issue (Every time i have to restart to get the internet data connected) one of the most irritating part. Due to fast charging mobile gets heated. Gestures doesn't work sometimes. I wish one plus team will fix the above mentioned issues ASAP.
4|I want to tell one interesting point here. First thing is mobile design, performance and battery backup are superb. SIM insert design also interesting. Alert buttons are waste. I bought this mobile in India for my future US plan. Now i'm in US and bought 4G sim here. 4G sim is not working here. I called my network T mobile they told me this handset doesn't support 4G here. So you guys this mobile is compatible only for Indian 4G network. For other 4G frequencies it won't work. But i want to tell you one more thing even in 3G network also it's working fine here.
4|Day 4 of use & my battery is being charged everyday. My only negative about the phone. The build of the device, the fit n finish is simply brilliant. The way it feels in hand whilst using it & the response time. Can't say I'm a hardcore user but not a noob either. It's just been brilliant all the way till now. The box pack device comes with a screen guard & a protective silicone rubber like cover. That's the best touch by OnePlus over all other devices. To put it in short, I honestly think its , by far the most SEXIEST looking Android phone out there.
5|I have an invite.contact veereshbc@rediffmail.com immediately.
4|Anybody needs one plus x invite Mail me on rahulb578@gmail.com
4|I am in requirement of invite pls can some help me out on this
4|Four coz it doesn't come in a 32gb version. It's a very good looking handset, smooth operation thanks to the 3gb ram. Wish it came in a 32gb version. The Oxygen OS needs further polishing. Some work on camera needs to be done. Wished OnePlus gets the colorOS camera as default, we can install the google camera from play store anyway. The color os camera on OnePlus One gives amazing picture quality. Hence I wish it to be installed as default. The amoled screen is good and the best part is 5 inches screen, convienent to carry and slip in the pockets.
1|I bought this phone for its specs and amazing looks my previous phone mi3 got stolen and hence i was in desperate need of this and my friend had an invite so getting this phone was a piece of cake. But after using this phone wow it was amazing @ first!! But the Battery sucks big time!! It has this s***** way of discharging on charge..! Honestly which phone does that!! Do not buy this phone if uu dont have time to charge it 3 times a day!! A very unhappy customer! Every problem starts surfacing after one week of use! Trust me on this. They better get me a replacement!
2|Had requested for this phone with same day delivery,however not done and next day even after requesting to deliver the product in morning and calling customer service many time this phone was delivered in evening and that to at watchmen of building Something not right with this phone from Day one it started getting hot, if I get call the other person would get to hear his own voice, applications crashed many times , blink on phone not working right , I think this phone is faulty and requested for refund, hope to get it refunded and get new Iphone I guess
4|1) Item received quickly and in good condition - Thanks to amazon Next day morning delivery 2) One plus X is slimmer than what we see in pictures. All important features are working. Phone looks beautiful and its display clarity is superb. Working on this phone's touch screen feels good. 3) its been only two days since I started using the phone. I have noticed that call volume is low i.e. guys on the other end complain of low voice volume . I am yet to confirm if it is a network issue or a phone problem. Overall its a good phone for this money
5|Just got my oneplus x. It's beautiful. P.S: I have got an extra invite. Anyone interested mail me at bhaskarpramanik@yahoo.com Edit: I am using the device from yesterday. There is no overheating issues. And the amoled screen is just incredible. Till now I haven't experienced any kind of lag while multitasking though I haven't played any heavy games yet. I didn't have any issue with the SD card slot. It is detecting my SD card perfectly fine. But I haven't tried to move files from my phone to SD card. So I don't know if there is such problems many people reporting.
5|Got the package delivered by one-day. ATS have been good on that part, however the item packaging was not up to the mark. (Please rectify this ASAP) The One plus X - Awesome looks and great performance. About charging, the phone comes with a 4A charger which is pretty faster in charging, compared to any 2A chargers. The screen, best part of the phone. Thanks to Samsung's Amoled technology, with 441 ppi screen looks vibrant with deep colors. Just don't think of anything, when you've an invite for this phone .. GO FOR IT.
3|A very decent phone. Mainly for people who prefer the design, feel and build of a product rather than its performance. The Oxygen OS is still not mature enough and has some bugs and lags sometimes and is the only thing that holds the phone back. Does heat up quite a bit at the top while playing graphics intensive games. Camera is so so but the display is awesome and retains visibility even under bright sunlight. Screen on time is below average but standby battery life is stellar using between 5-8% overnight. Will easily last you a day If you are a moderate user.
3|The phone might be okay, remains to be seen. But the quality of the documentation provided with the phone is extremely poor. All I got was a diagram showing where the on off buttons were and where to insert the SIM. Rest is just regulatory requirements in terms of FCC compliance and battery safety issues. Nothing of use to me as an end user. Extremely disappointed with the documentation will probably never buy this company's product again. The present purchase was an emergency purchase but would not care to repeat this experience. Extremely frustrating.
5|This phone is really awesome. With many impressive features, Very good camera quality. Very good processing speed. Very good look and light weight. i love this phone
4|Amazing piece of engineering, great camera, and discovering android through one plus has made me bury my iPhone. Of late apple intentionally put out software updates to make older models non usable and refused to service / upgrade and repair the same. ANDRIOD is easy to master, other than FaceTime I don't miss my iPhone. And of course one plus sells spares at very reasonable prices. I'm so kicked with the beauty that I bought one for my mom and another for my brother! I'm confident that their strategy isn't to make older models redundant over time.
3|I give three starts becoz battery capacity. A standard android must have a battery capacity of at least 3000mah. But it has only 2525 which is not enough. I need to charge this device twice a day. Build quality is very good Design is also very nice. Display is also very attractive. And one more very important thing that I want to tell u that the delivery system of amazon is very bad. They willing delay the delivery. They can do fast delivery but they do not do that. I called 5 times to customer care to get delivered my phone.
4|Over all the phone performance is excellent, only the problem from day one, only is while in call before taking it to my ear automatically notification bar slieds down and call be going to mute. This problem irritation from day one. Each time on call I have to slide notification bar and swith back to call screen and some time when more notifications its very difficult to switch back to call. Hope one plus will take it as saviour issue and fix this issue ASAP, other than this issue while switching phone to offline mode phone get hangs for 10 to 15 second's.
1|While the phone was placed on a dinner table, a small water spill within a week of buying it caused the phone to completely breakdown. There are only 2 service centers in all of Bombay and neither of them have been able to help me out. Please do not purchase this phone.
4|The mobile is awesome. Battery is good, no heating issues and smooth interface. Though the oxygen OS doesn't offer that great features the hardware is good. Good product from oneplus
4|I got this product today .definitely it's the best .the main concern for me was I couldn't find flash button displaying on the primary camera part . Can anyone help me out on this .
5|An excellent phone with the best build quality. Awesome camera and battery life. The best amoled display with deep blacks. I'm surprised they managed to price it so less add it feels like a 35k-40k phone. Cons :- No phone is perfect. The only thing I could wish for was a proper dual sim option with a separate slot for micro SD. Also oxygen OS is good but not as good as cyanogen mod OS. Hope they introduce the quick scroll feature and a speedy responsive ui like cyanogen OS 12.1 found on one plus one which is extremely fast and responsive.
3|Okish phone, looks good but slippery, so back flip cover is must, but then again it spoils the look. 3GB RAM helps, apps work fast. Camera is good only on paper, 13MP you might expect great picture quality, but Lumia Cameras are better. Network reception is very poor, that's one major drawback. Oxygen OS needs lots of modification, simple operations like delete duplicate contacts, save camera images to SD card involves lots of steps. Pros: 3GB Ram, Looks without the flip cover. Cons: Camera, Network reception and Oxygen OS.
4|I am using the phone from past 18 days, received through one day delivery option. Delivery was prompt and on time as mentioned. Phone is superb in all aspects, Display is super and crystal clear, touch is butter smooth. But battery life is not up to the mark, as I have observed remains normal in standby mode, starts draining once u start using the phone, still serves for one day. I will say Must have phone in this price range compared to other brands. Write me on vaijusk@yahoo.com for invites if anybody interested to purchase.
4|Review in short Comparing the phone with one plus one since the innards and price bracket is same Camera Details are missing when you zoom the pic I wonder why one plus had gone with Isocell lens instead of omnivision or exmor Display Pretty good when compared to previous ones Battery My thought should have kept it in 3000 mah bracket since dual Sim uses more Design On par with any flagship Overall 8/10 For invites please mail to avinash400cat@gmail.com
5|awesome phone made with brillance way to optimise it must buy this phone hving awseome features n i hv fe invits to give awey fr freee at nishantnw999@gmail.com plz like this
1|My phone is about 20 days old. And suddenly the battery is discharging very rapidly. It is not charging also very slowly. And i am not able to return it as it is more than 10 days.
4|I am facing some issues only with call settings. Even in the settings, I change the sorting of contact list by First name,each time its getting sorted by last name only and after sometime again displays the list sorted by first name. One other major issue with the calling is that, whenever I make a call, I am not able to hear the voice clearly but the person on the other side can hear my voice clearly. Can these issues be fixed by some updates.If yes, Please do it soon. OnePlus X (Onyx, 16GB) - Invite Only
5|Just received my New OnyX. Very Very Fast Delivery...!!! Thanks to Amazon..!!! :) Looks great. Here are few initial reviews.. Come up with the Silicon back case that's great... Phone looks great.. Lovely color and design for Adapter.. Touch was awesome for phone.. Camera quality is great.. Rest technical details will share once stared using...
5|Another lovely promising device from OnePlus!! Just placed my order! Can't wait to have it in my hands! :P If anyone else needs an invite, then contact me on 9867344415.
5|Any want invite for 1+X contact me 9833114625 on whatsapp
5|I love this phone, One day i saw this phone in news paper and after that i went to check this phone over amazon and decided in few mins to buy it, I got it delivery in just two days, which was really great experience for me. Regarding the phone, it completely fulfill all my expectations, Camera is really amazing both front and rear, I have used the apple 4S few years ago and from that experience, i can say that this phone is BAAP OF APPLE. If anyone is planning to buy similar budget phone, I would like to suggest them to buy this.
4|A good phone, undoubtedly, but it is far from the company's Never Settle motto as it cuts corners in many places. But the company doesn't claim this to be a flagship killer to begin with so there's no reason to bash it on those grounds. If size isn't an issue, the OnePus One is a much better buy at just 2k more. If size is an issue but you want much better bang for your buck, the Mi4 64gb will throw this out of the water. That said, there's nothing wrong with the phone itself, just that there are better phones than this in its price segment.
5|This Device is simply a Bang for your Buck. It looks the part. And Just look at the specifications and the price at which you are getting them. The quality and the design are just insane. Easily comparable to other premium devices. The only downside is that the rear panel is a fingerprint magnet. No software or Overheating issues at all. The UI is fluid and lag free. I would recommend this mobile over the competition(If there's really any at this price point). And Finally Amazon, you are simply amazing. Thanks for a Prompt and safe delivery.
3|Ordered on the day 1 but disappointed with camera flash which is crap and goes white when taking photos with flash and other major issue with audio, other person is not able to hear calls many times. Redurned ans will order soon..May be i will be getting this phone without these issues
5|Pros + Specifications - Like Chip set, CPU, GPU, RAM, AMOELD + Performs better than One Plus 2 + Classy Design & Fits to Hand + Cost effective + Branding + Capability of updating - Both OS and External Card + Less Heating Cons - No 4K recording included even though capable - Need OS update for SD card not shows up issue Suggestions + This device could be ultimate model if it has NFC, USB-C and Finger print sensor. + Head phones could have included in the package.
5|I have used s3 for 3 years and also used to install custom rom ,so never felt any need to change my phone but I was in search to replace the device with similar screen(oled) and 5" screen size and one plus x fit to all criteria. Coming to device it has amazing battrey backup some says its not that great but I found it good enough for me.Camera might be average for photo lovers but I never was so serious about that . Haven't found any bugs so far and os is stable. Design is truly beautiful best suited for professionals.
3|everything good but battery... standby time is good. but as soon as you put on heavy use, it just drains out. not good for GPS , Video Steaming. I wish it had a bigger battery.
4|Good purchase after getting an invite for this shopping.... little concern that the Oxygen OS of the phone is not as far customizable as in the Cyanogen OS..... of OPO.......!
5|Thank you so much Oneplus.. India ma.. ava phone launch karva mate.. Seriously ano front cam 8mp..?? Bestest cam ever.. now. I m in oneplus family.. oneplus one / oneplus x / oneplus power bank
5|So I was lucky enough to get the invite and didn't gave a second thought and orders it for my fiancee.. It took around 7 Days to get it delivered. I am not a fan of Amazon delivery but this time around they were satisfactory. The phone itself is beautiful to look at the one plus packaging is awesome.... battery life is ok it can easily last you a day with WiFi on whole day and moderate calls and video usage. I really liked the feel of the uni body design it seems perfect to hold..the screen is gorgeous thanks to amoleid...
5|Excellent phone. Just the model which I was looking for. I received it today and already in love with this cute monster. Thank you one plus for this beautiful Diwali gift
5|The most VFM mobile currently in this price segment. No other phone comes even close to it. Buy it eyes closed. One Plus has definitely upped their game with this one. Waiting for the champagne edition to be launched. Very high style quotient and feels premium from every angle. No issues whatsoever. All pros and only few cons( that can be lived with). Even a novice can use this phone with ease. Best for gifting purposes(specially to spouses and girlfriends). P.S: Just don't ever drop it( atleast from the screen side) ;-)
4|Overall the phone is good, except these minor bugs- which must be sattle by the Onex: 1) We cannot manage the app order/ cannot re-order the app location- (edit the app between various pages & create a folder to move apps in that folder) 2) for calling there is no option that we may pre-choose the default calling SIM, it each time asks while you make call that which SIM is to use for call 3) for SMS, there is no option of deleting/selecting multi messages in a single conversation. if anyone have ideas about the above pls explain
3|Everything is good about the phn....except camera..pic doesn't have a quality of being captured by a 13mp camera and also the memory card issue...u can't move apps games and even other media to card.... Premium looks....loud enough speaker.....nice amoled screen.....battery OK last for a day on average usage....used it for 6 days never lagged.....played 1.3gb modern combat 5 it didn't lagged but don't know why sometimes subway surfer lags...maybe game problem Overall phn is good if u can ignore camera issue.
5|As expected! Never Settle! This product is amazing, loved the craftsmanship. Performance so far is mind blowing. The only thing that is kind of annoying is the smudge that is left from the finger prints ( We can handle this :-) ). Delivery from Amazon was before time added the happiness. Camera is flawless, auto focus and brightness tuning for pictures is an add on. Battery life with 3G is decent. OnePlus also gave out an update today to increase the performance and auto tuning in pictures. Loving this phone!
5|Was using iPhone 5s previously. This is my first Android phone . I bought this product mainly for the bigger HD screen and the ability to use 2 Sims. Using for almost 25 days now. Pros Crisp and clear screen Both Sims work effortlessly Minimalistic slim design,, looks great Touch is smooth Battery stays for a day with my moderate use No bloat ware in oxygen Cons Few software glitches which is negligible and doesn't effect everyday use. I Don't game so cannot comment on gaming.
5|great phone with great specs, moved from nexus 6 to this phone. much better to handle and better looks, without compromising on performance. icing on the cake - back cover and screen guard is part of the original box bundle. may be a lesson or two to learn for other phone manufacturers. apple and samsung, get out of your greed and take note. nice job - OnePlus. keep it up!
4|Got my oneplus x previous week. Cominf to the pros- the phone is slim, glass finish gives it a premium touch to hold this phone. Performance is good, a decent camera and an average battery life and display is very good. Cons are- limited 4g bands, and the phone gets liitle heated while moderate/heavy usage but its manageable.Overall its a good value for money phone, you will get what you have paid. I have 3 oneplus x invites valid till 4th december. if someone wants it please do send me a mail at sarthak.yadav9@gmail.com
5|Great phone. Found in nice condition. A charger and device user manuals. No earphone. Charger is red and white looks cool. I like the style. It is dual Sim phone but at a time you can only use two bank Sims or 1 sim and a micro SD card. That means if you intend to use SD card you will have to sacrifice your second Sim. Battery life is average. Camera is good, beauty mode is there. Video display picture display awesome. Overall I am in love with this phone. Amazon has delivered it in good condition.
4|The performance of the phone is good and decent. Camera quality also seems to be good. I tried playing game like asphalt nitro. The phone back gets warm within few minutes, but becomes normal post playing. The pros I would say that it has good processor capacity and RAM. The alert slider, SD card option and LED notifications are a plus. The sound quality is also good. Design and display are awesome. But would be better if it has features like NFC & quickcharge. Overall its a good phone for the budget.
5|The One PLUS X at 17K is a terrific buy considering the specs. Depends on how you use this phone. The Display ( AMOLED ) is just brilliant. The battery life , many people have commented it to be avearage, but from my use over the couple of days, It's fantastic. The CAMERA stands out front camera with 8 MP and back camera with 13 MP . The OS (Oxygen) is just amazing. Over all an excellent buy and masterpiece crafted by ONE PLUS TEAM. The Best part is about the looks and also the slimness, it's slimmer than the IPHONE even.
4|Pros: Look is great, Awesome Display, Very Slim, nice Processor and RAM, No Lag till Now. Cons: Home Launcher : Basically I switched to this phone from Mi3, The MIUI is way ahead than this launcher, This launcher lacks the ease of use that MIUI offers. To clear the cache memory or check the RAM and CPU usage either you need to go deep down under settings or need to install 3rd party apps. No antivirus in build. Overall: I am pleased with the looks and performance while missing MIUI twicks.
5|As usual an awesome product from one plus. I don't think it's a budget phone, it's a flagship phone with an awesome build quality at a budgeted price. 1. Oxygen OS has many useful inbuilt features and is solid. 2. Using gestures to control the phone even when the display is off, is awesome. 3. At this range no other phone stands with OnePlus X built quality. 4. Camera quality is great. If you have an invite then you can just go for it. A long time Apple Fanatic and now also a Fan of OnePlus.
5|Got one plus x today.... Early delivery by Amazon than promised.... The look and build quality of opx is great. Touch is responsive like any hi-end device. I find colours more saturated.... Overall it delivers more than value...!!!!
4|Hi Everybody, I am writing this review after 3 days of using this phone. It has been nice experience so far, all my friends liked it. This is best quality phone in this budget i can say. Built quality is robust, battery back up also seems to be good, camera and all other features are great. This is good to use in single sim mode, although you can still use in dual sim mode without memory card. Over it is best to buy. I have got some invite If anybody needs then you can mail me to tanweer.muz@gmail.com
4|Pros: slim, stylish, metal unibody Well built Good camera Good AMOLED Screen with deep colors and clarity Comparatively less weight, easy to carry in hand Good speaker output Cons: Average battery life Camera good at only daylight No headphones provided by the manufacturer Lot of bugs in the OS Nano sim- dual(Need to cut mine is Micro sim), Cant insert two sims and memory card at a time, either 2 nano sims or 1 nano sim and memory card can be accessed.
5|Superb product, design is its USP, awesome display, Performance also good as of now considering its old config.. Must mention that got a software update to fix the heating & camera that many did complain. Atleast I didn't experience any of these in 2 days of heavy use.. not before the update as well.. People should understand its hard to hit every quality aspect of mobile at this price range.. Oneplus X is One of the best mobile launched this Year !! Just compare with any flagship mobile and believe for yourself :)
4|I read few negative comments about the phone and I wonder what were those people expecting from a 17K smartphone!! Before ordering I read many reviews and researched a lil, and my expectations were in check. So when I received it I was quite happy and satisfied. Its a good phone, good performance, great looks, camera is fine too. Its a steal for this price. Can not comment on durability though, time will tell. I have an invite, for free ofcourse, if interested leave ur email id as comment on my post, I will fwd it.
5|It's great value for the price. I have had the phone for about a month. Everything works as it should. - The phone is snappy and responsive. - The camera performance is surprisingly good. - The network drops sometimes but nothing to worry abt, unless you live in a remote area or terribly far from a network tower. - WIFI has the same challenge, sometimes the network drops when I'm abt 30 to 40 ft away from the router. Overall, its the best phone you can buy at this price.
3|As like everyone, I did a lot of research to buy a new phone. My earlier phone was a 5.5" one and I wanted a 5" phone this time around. The best in this segment for now is, oneplus X. I love the look and feel of the phone. With its wonderful display and premium feel, you would instantly fall into love with this phone. Pros: Display Look Oxygen OS 3 GB RAM Performance Call quality Cons: Battery drains too fast Heats, heats, heats...
5|Hi..this is ajit kumbhar...first of all want to clarify one thing...which is it has been said that..there i. sD card detection issue...but there is no SD card detection issue..simply download ES file explorer..you can view phone and memory card..you can move movies songs..from phone to memory card and vice versa..and it really look like high end phone....before buying this phone I checked all available 20 to 25 k phones...but they fail to match this beast..its realy...realy....amazing phone..thank to amazon..
5|Very Nice phone. My brother puchased it last week. If anybody required to buy it, i have invite activated and valid for today only. Call me on 7065003725 today only.
4|Over all a nice phone ... Its bang for the buck .. The reason I m giving 3stars is that for amazon packing and as I have oneplus one my self I felt a little bit lagging (not even noticeable) . Don't listen to all the critics out there saying camera is not good .. The camera is very nice it takes a decent photos from the rear camera and front camera of opx clearly beats the camera of oneplus two. If u want to buy this don't think click on the but button your opx is just click.away from you. Thanks
3|Cons : Doesn't feel that premium after putting back cover on . But you have to . Device is fragile . Frame drop noticed while scrolling photos slowly . Hd video also shows frame drops . can't even play the video shot on my moto g 1st gen , properly . Rear Camera isn't satisfying . Doesn't work on all wifi networks . Battery wasn't actually good. Short charger cable . No earphones . Pros : Screen : Excellent one . User interface : simple , easy , useful , lovely . Though I returned the phone .
4|Display is amazing. Not that happy with camera performance 8 mp front camera seems sort of ok. The screen guard already provided with device catches fingerprints easily which appear when screen is off. The back cover(case) is a good one. Good options for the navigation buttons on screen or off screen. Very nice and premium to hold. Oxygen os has still got to improve. The silent toggle bar works well. No nfc No headphones provided Overall a competitor.
5|Guys , please don't follow the fake reviews of this product.I am using this hand set for almost one month.This a best buy for me till now with this price range.Looks is stunning. Screen is outstanding. Before buying, I have seen some negative comments about the camera. But believe me, camera us outstanding. Professor is very smoth.No lags yet.Only lags is the loudspeaker.It should be better. Battery back up is OK. If you compair the phone with this range in the market, believe me one plus x is the best..
4|While clicking the pics at nite with secondary camera there is no flash. Not able to connect to WiFi also. I don't know what exactly the prob. Can any one help me.
4|Pros Good battery life lasts for a day and half Awesome looks and style Light coustomizable lag free experience. Very nice front facing camera The perfect size pjone for on hand operation Looks and feels good to operate Perfect pricetag Cons Rear camera without optial image stabilization You wont get the notification of the balance left after disconneting calls on prepaid network so will have to check internet balance and calling balance manually.
5|It's amazing in specs, am fully interested to buy this one. Tried so many times to get invitation, inspite very regular and prompt costumer/buyer still no invite!
2|A lot of problems being faced. First of all SD card is not working. A lot of bugs. Many of the games not working, I tried Goodgame empire : four kingdoms Looks wise its nice Comes with applied screen protector and silicon translucent back cover. A soft one. Oxygen OS. I personally liked cyanogen OS more. Because of the cyanogen apps. Like camera and galery specifically. Rest everything is ok. DO GO THROUGH forums before buying
2|After looking the review and spec I decided to buy one plus x, but I very quickly started noticing that the phone started heating rapidly after 5-10 min of fb and Gmail, so I went for replacement and got a new one plus x, the problem still persists so I'm going for refund now. Design, performance is good Battery and camera is normal But it becomes unusable with this much of heat. Feeling very disappointed. Ty for Amazon for making refund policy very easy.
5|The product is good, however i am seeing some issues with the Charger.It has some Electricity and there is sound even after i remove the charger from the socket.
3|My brother ordered this phone for me, as I failed to use the invite in time. Pretty awesome phone for the price it offers. There's one issue with it though. The memory card compatibility wrt apps. It has an option for move apps to SD card, but no matter how much you try, it just doesn't work. The data on the memory card can be read, used but cannot be edited - pics n documents. On reading more about it, I found its a universal issue for all one plus x phones. So waiting for an update for the same.
4|Nice phone for this price range.. Tends to heats up much on heavy HD video applications.. Front camera gives average output.. second camera give u good selfies. But low light performance is below average.. Battery charge last for at most a day. SD card not sensing.. May be corrected by the next o.s update. Good speed on application execution and look.... EXCELLENT.. . This phone is good..and value for money item.. I recommend.. Please see attached photos..taken using front cam..in day light...
4|Superb phone. True value for money. Awesome camera, built quality , packing etc. Only draw back is the sim or SD card tray,, which is a bit inconvenience.
4|I'm using this phone from past 4 days...phone is really awesome... I'm in love with my mobile..here some of the pro's n cons I've listed out Pro's 1. Design is good...looks like a premium phone 2.amoled display looks awesome 3 camera is good. 4 heavy games works fine without lagging. 5.call voice clarity is good. Con's 1.battery capacity should have been more. I feel battery drains little fast... It's the best phone under 20k without any doubt...
3|It is a mediocre phone with a price which tends towards a high one. It has an inferior chipset to the one present in Oneplus One and thus is demanding software tweaks, and which will take some time. Otherwise the look and feel of the phone is fantastic, it is usually very quick at loading things and the UI is just sufficiently snappy, but not quite. If you want a premium looking phone with a beautiful screen, and sufficiently snappy interface, go for it, with a little bump to your bank balance.
5|I have been using the phone for 2 days now and it pretty damn awesome. I think this phone is a steal for this price, specially for regular users like me. It ticks all the things that i look in a phone: 1. Gorgeous Looks 2. Seamless performance 3. Superb Display and Touch 4. The back is made of high class glass and has the feeling of a very high end phone 5. Just the right screen size (not too big, not too small) 6. Include Silicon case and screen protector(already applied on the phone for you)
3|No words about its design it's awesome, there are many reviewed about this phone but all of you insert the memory card and check in the storage settings whether its showing or not..? try to move a large size applications like in other android phones.. upto 16gb fills its good,, once its filled up then all will realize the problem. and open the application in series and try using Facebook, in between automatically facebook will close. one plus x doesn't stand against the best one plus one mobile.
5|I have a new invite received today.. any one interested can use it : in30-9bf6-4355-92a5 A very nice product from Oneplus one agian, I do not know why people often prefer the lenovo products which is not nearly any cheap compare to Oneplus products. One plus hardware and software are far better than the lenovo products . and please guys donnot compare Oneplus products with any other cheap or costly phones . this has its own charm and no doubt we can grab one. Worst part is only invites .
4|It is an amazing device i am proud to have. The looks of phone are super slim and sexy. Its a decent copy of iPhone by looks wise :D. The only drawback is lack of Micro Sd Card support in current OS version. As One plus series are meant to have massive internal storage and no SD card support, but only One Plus X has this feature. So they forgot to give support to Micro Sd card. No settings for cam to store pics n vids into SD card. Hopefully they will fix it ij next OS update.
3|Mobile gets heated soon, battery back up is only 7 hours when using internet, If there are too many apps downloaded in the mobile, sometime the mobile hangs, no ear plugs in the box, we can use either a dual sim or in place of the 2nd sim slot we can use SD card, but can not use dual sim and Sd card together, while on call certain options gets selected when the phone touches ur ears like mute option. anyone planning on one plus x dont go for it buy higher models like one plus 1 and one plus 2
3|I dont why this 2.3Ghz quad processor could not even play subway surfers,smash hit kind of games where as the phones with same processor are doing better job.I think the problem lies with software..If this oneplus team does not look into this issue(gaming problem ) ,i would not hesitate to return the product.I always wanted to give 5 stars for this oneplus. I dont want to complain on any hardware(even though camera is average) and its specs as i am only paying 17K and could not ask for more
5|This is the best 5 inch smartphone ever produced.If any of you need an invite put mail to sagarsk1670@gmail.com.I HAVE 3 SHARABLE INVITES. WILL GIVE FOR FREE.
4|It is a great phone as expected. The remarkable looks, the fast processor, the amazing camera quality & the handy size of the phone are its best features. The only issue I have is that it's battery life is a little low & it won't survive even half a day on heavy usage. But other than that, the device is worth the buy & a steal at such a low price. ?? 1 bug that OnePlus needs to fix is the flash-related problem while using Snapchat. It is a big pain for frequent Snapchat-users like me! ?
1|Item delivered. Screen lit up only at corners on power on. Dissatisfied with one plus x onyx first experience. Poor quality check before dispatch.
4|the speed is not upto the last phone i used. Overall its good but the phone is not even two months and sometimes it gets stuck for few seconds. Last phone i used was nexus4 and i expected the proficiency upto that but it does not match the same when operating many apps at once. Also the camera hangs and throws an error for which you might have to restart the phone. But then again it could cause of the other apps installed. My brother uses minimal number of apps and stands good as of now
3|I was impressed with reviews and decided to buy OnePlus X, I would have given 5 star but I am totally disappointed with Video resolution & Camera. I was using Xiaomi Mi3 since last 1 Year. I have compare Camera & Video quality with Mi3 and Mi3 is much better than OnePlus X. If anyone not interested in Dual Sim then go for Xiaomi Mi4 (64GB). Or Mi3 available (Refurbished) on Valuecart.in. Mobile is slim and both side have gorilla glass but still look is not that much impressive.
3|Hello Guys This Is BestGamerAli And Today I Am Going To Review OnePlus X And First For You Guys To Know This That The OnePlus X breaks new ground for the young Chinese company. Making the X, OnePlus eschewed its usual formula of stuffing the best processor in a ridiculously cheap phone. Instead, it has repurposed the internals of its debut OnePlus One into a smaller phone with a lower Rs 17,000 price tag. But in achieving that admittedly impressive feat, it's gone against its own mantra. Now Some Good Things And Bad Things Of OnePlus X Pros ( Good Things ) 1) Impeccable build quality 2) Strong performance 3) Cheapest OnePlus yet Cons ( Bad Things ) 1) Bad camera, day and night 2) So-so display 3) Limited LTE support Let's start this off with a list of things that, despite what you might have heard, the OnePlus X doesn't actually look like: The Apple iPhone 4 The Apple iPhone 4S The Apple iPhone 5 The Apple iPhone 5S That's not to say that there aren't elements of Apple's design here, but they're just elements. When combined with other constituents, they bond to form something wholly different. So much of Apple's design philosophy over the years has involved borrowing, refining and remixing other companies' work. If you don't have a problem with that, you can't suddenly take issue with OnePlus for wrapping a glass phone in a metal band and drilling some holes at the bottom. Writing an impassioned defense, for what it's worth, doesn't mean that I actually like the way the X looks -- I don't. It's so pedestrian; a glossy glass slab with the metallurgic equivalent of pinstripe etched into its metal sides. The build quality is admirable, from the phone speaker cutout to the three pristine capacitive buttons below the display, but it feels as if the designers created a mood board for "luxury" and then picked the things they liked from it. And those aforementioned Apple elements actually infect the OnePlus X with some of the best and worst things about Cupertino's designs over the years. The "iPhone 4" glass covering, for example, looks nice enough, but the glossy back picks up fingerprints by the millisecond, and although my unit is pristine, we noticed scratches at the device's UK unveil. It's also very slippery, but that's somewhat mitigated by the metal band, which although not particularly attractive, helps improve the grip. And those "iPhone 5" drilled holes -- one side serving a speaker, the other a microphone -- are easy to obstruct if you're "holding it wrong." DISPLAY The X's 5-inch display is a 1080p AMOLED, which typically means superb viewing angles, bright colors and blacks beyond the event horizon. There's no sea change here. Colors are indeed punchy -- a little too gaudy for my taste, but your mileage may vary -- viewing angles are great, and of course, since AMOLED doesn't have a backlight, blacks are fantastic. While it's a good display for the price, this is not AMOLED's finest hour. I'm perhaps spoiled by flagship panels. It's not a matter of resolution -- that's absolutely fine -- but the screen itself has some idiosyncrasies. It's not laminated, and there's quite a gap between the display and the coverglass. It's not a huge issue, but it's there. I also take issue with the color balance of the display. The company has form here -- the OnePlus 2 has one of the bluest displays I've ever seen on a phone -- but to my eyes the X has an even higher white point. SOFTWARE OnePlus' Oxygen OS is very good. I hadn't really spent time with it before the X arrived -- unless a cursory swipe across home screens on a OnePlus 2 counts -- but I'd like to spend more time with it now. If you've used stock Android, you won't find too many differences visually, but there are some additional, genuinely customization options on offer. By default the phone has a "dark" theme, which changes the menus to a deep black and the app drawer to a dark gray. In theory, due to the peculiarities of AMOLED technology, this uses less power than the regular white Android theme. In practice, white text on a black background hurts my eyes, and I'd rather just charge slightly more often. Changing this theme is a simple affair, as is modifying the accent colors. I do think OnePlus could go a little further with the customization options, especially by pulling in some third-party ideas like having specific color notifications on the LED for your favorite apps. CAMERA The OnePlus X's camera may have the same megapixel count as its more expensive brethren, but the similarities end there. Yes, it's got a 13-megapixel sensor, but it's a smaller sensor than the OnePlus 2's, and so lets in less light. It's also placed behind an f/2.2 lens, which is a third-stop slower than the lens on the 2. The result of these concessions is a much poorer experience. In good lighting conditions, the X can capture a decent amount of detail, but it's difficult to predict whether you'll get a good photo. There's just no consistency here; in a typical five-minute shooting period, I saw underexposed and overexposed photos, vibrant colors, subdued colors and totally inaccurate colors. The X is quick to focus, though, and shutter lag is minimal. In low light, things get worse. I took the phone along to an industry event featuring live music, and happily snapped away. During the show the images seemed fine, but I came home to find they were universally bad. There's an over-aggressive anti-noise algorithm that sucks all the detail out of photos, and the daylight exposure and color issues carry over as well. PERFORMANCE AND BATTERY LIFE Keeping pace with the Moto G is not exactly a problem when it comes to raw performance. As I mentioned before, the quad-core 2.3GHz Snapdragon 801 processor inside the OnePlus X is last year's flagship chip. Aside from OnePlus' own One, it's found in phones like the Samsung Galaxy S5, the HTC One M8. In general navigating home screens, browsing, multitasking and gaming was fast and fluid. The OnePlus 2 is a hair faster when you put the two side by side, but I really can't discern much of a difference in everyday use. THE COMPETITION What do you want from this phone? Are you just looking for a cheap, reliable device, or are you searching for the trappings of a flagship at a lower price? Whatever you're looking for, I have trouble believing that at $249 the OnePlus X is the best fit for you. For the budget conscious, the cheaper Moto G, at $220 for the 2GB RAM version, is simply a better all-round phone. It's less flashy, for sure, but it's a competent performer, has a superior camera, wider LTE support, and is waterproof. For those looking for bleeding-edge performance, why not spend the extra $70 and pick up a OnePlus 2? It's got more power and a way better camera, and in my opinion it's the more attractive phone by far. About the only thing the OnePlus X has over the 2 is microSD expansion. CONCLUSION It seemed like a dream on paper: The specs of the company's excellent debut flagship squeezed into a smaller, well constructed shell. In reality, OnePlus has cut some corners here. The X suffers in the camera and display department, and for some reason doesn't support some increasingly common LTE bands in North India .It'soddly disparate device; unmatched for raw performance at RS 17,000, but unable to keep pace in other ways. With better all-round phones available in the same price range, including OnePlus' own flagship, it's difficult to recommend. Ratings Display - 8.5/10 Performance - 6.5/10 Battery - 9/10 ( Better Than S6) Camera - 8.5/10 Overall - 7.5/10 Instead Of Buying This Go For One Plus 2 ( Thats Better Than This Product And Will Cost You Just More 5-6 Thousand Or Less .. I Wont Suggest You Buying It If You Find This Review Helpful Then Make Sure To Click On That Thumbs Up Button ( Helpful)
1|Here are some positive and negaive points about this phone which will help you decide if this is the phone you want or maybe not: Positive points:- ·Value for money ·Very good Full HD AMOLED display ·Good battery backup (will last a day on average use) ·Premium build quality (feels solid in the hand) ·Good camera (Casual photography) ·Expandable storage upto 128GB Negative points:- Well this is where this phone was a complete deal breaker for me. Even though this phone has a good Snapdragon 801 processor and an Adreno 330 GPU along with 3GB of RAM, OnePlus has failed to fully optimise their Oxygen OS. Due to this the phone shows lags in some very basic operations like scrolling through multiple notifications in the notifications bar or in very basic gaming like Crossy Road which is not graphics intensive at all. I was using a Nexus 5 before this and it had similar specs but worked flawlessly due to optimised software. Oxygen OS is also almost completely stock android but its in a half baked state right now. User experience in any smartphone is the most important factor one must consider before buying it and this phone considering the specs and stock android like OS fails to provide a good user experience. I waited for some OS updates and it still couldnt improve this issue and hence i returned it to amazon. This phone also has heating issues. It got really hot when i was watching videos in Youtube. I suggest you to not buy this phone and consider getting some other phone. I would still recommend a Nexus 5 or a motorola phone at this price range.
1|Team Please do not trust this product. I bought my mobile in online by Nov month. During 5th Jan while I changes my sim slot the sim card was not working. When I reached customer service they said some of the settings, but even tho I didn’t get the solution. Later I reached the service center which was located in Coimbatore & I got a feedback as the sim slot was found slight damaged. But, I didn’t agree the same, as there is no options of physical damage. While my hand set does not presence of any other problem how its potential of physical damage of sim slot inside the hand set. Also this is not my first smart phone for leaning. Note: I would like to notified that the one pulse MOBILE has designed with mechanical control that I cannot inset the sim in wrong position primarily & secondarily if enforced to put the sim in wrong direction may my sim slot broken or trapped inside the hand set. The above mentioned nothing was happened. Then how can I agree that the slot has been physically damaged. Possible root cause: During the manufacturer itself the sim slot pin may get slight damage. While I inset the sim at first time it may not get over damage as the position of sim pin placed. While I take back the sim it has the potential of getting damage as the slot coming it back direction. Because of initially fault. If the above is not happened the other way the customer service center may damage while making the testing process. Finally I reached customer care of One plus Mr. Kasim again for more clarification regarding the same & also while I have taken the con call with service center of Coimbatore, Mr. Kasim asked the customer service center manager to share the snap shots of the handset to his personal ID. If there is really problem why he as should to share the images to his person ID & also he asked manager to speak in offline for more clarification. Hence there is no proper customer service hence do not support this product. Reg: Sheikh Durvesh N
5|Ok, we know that CHEAP phones are getting GOOD and GOOD phones are getting CHEAP. This time oneplus has surprised me with the price which is the most important and talked about feature of this device. never thought that a company could fill in such great specs in just a mere Rs.17000. Lets talk about the device now. the premium look of the device and the solid build as well as the feel in the hand is awesome. it feels like an Iphone but is definitely a point better than it. The performance has been great and it completes any task thrown at it like butter. The camera quality of the rear 13 Megapixel shooter was decent, hower it stands no competition with the other flagship devices but if you are not picky about photography, It will not disappoint you. The front 8Megapixel sensor was realy great and even better than the rear shooter and clicks awesome quality photoes. Now for the scree, just one word AWESOME! The 1080p amoled screen not only looks good but also mends in with the 2.5d glass panel to make it look more premium and also feel the same. The only drawbacks are the lack of 5GHz wifi support and the Battery life. However with normal usage the device's 2550MAh battery lasts a day but with heavy multitasking and social networking.... Uhh... Its is a bit disappointing as it gives only a 3 -3.5 hours of screen-on time which is damn lesser than its elder brother the Oneplus 2. But overall the device is fantastic if you belong to the tech community and want a device for a lesser price which has great specs. Its a must buy for the people who want a premium feel in the hand at a lower price point. From my side its a Green light for the device. Go on and buy it.
5|One plus X Onyx The package was delivered 2 days before the scheduled date. Packaging by Amazon was not so good this time but wasn't the worst as well. The one plus box contains phone, charger adaptor, USB cable, sim tray ejector, manual and protective silicon case for your one plus x. The phone doesn't come with earphones. It has been one week since I received the phone, I have found no heating issues so far. It takes 2 hrs to charge the phone when switched off and 2.5 hrs when on. The battery lasts for around a day even with moderate use - my WiFi is active 24*7 so its fine. There were two known issues when I bought the phone - Camera and SD card but both of them have been fixed in 2 OTA updates released by oneplus. Hats off to their customer support. So you can now MOVE APPS TO SD CARD. 13 MP rear camera is good, photos taken are comparable with those of moto G 3rd Gen. 8MP front camera is really awesome. Snapdragon 801 chip still has its impact in the market combined with 3 gb of RAM one plus x is very smooth to operate. Android cum Oxygen OS interface is also pleasing. I guess I don't have to say anything about the premium look of the phone. Overall phone is a good buy for those who want a mid range classic.
2|build 9/10 sturdiness 10/10 display - 10/10 sound 7/10 call clarity - 8/ 10 performance 7/10 cons : >Heeeeeeeeeeats up in 5 to 10 mts of usage (Mobile is warm) 15- 20 mts of internet 3g/2g data mobile and When charging it is like a hot plate . As the body is completely metal heat is not dissipated well. it takes a long time to cool down. >You will not receive service messages >You can't install / move apps to external memory >you use service options like airtel money or vodafone mpesa >You can't save your camera pictures directly to sd card (You need to periodically move the contents to free phone's space ) >Only 10 Gb available for user >Lags a bit for heavy games . With 3 GB ram 2.3 ghz of processor I didn't expect it to hang. >Processor is mentioned as Snapdragon 801 but its snapdragon 801 A which is a lower version and clock speed is 2.3 Ghz and not 2.5 GHZ (They should have mentioned that the chip set is 801A instead of 801) >No headphones out of the box >Very very slippery (You can't hold it in your shoulder to chin it will surely fall off) Note: After 7 days of use I have returned the product as I can't bare the heat
2|Hi, This is my 10 days experience with this phone. Oneplus Team have really crafted this product including the package, charger, detachable USB charger cable, a tool to remove/place sim/SD cards and the rear case. WOW will be the only one word you will spell out when using the phone's features. I have been waiting for some negative experience/s with this phone all these days and experienced nothing bad. Followings are my experiences. Design and Display scores above expectation. Played HD movie songs using VLC player. This phone did perform well while running apps and heavy gaming. I noticed phone becomes hot in the initial days of gaming and long time usage of Google maps. Later, phone becomes just warm only. As climate has also changed drastically in Chennai, which could have influenced the heat so could not strongly say that heat is not an issue. However my another phone Lumia 640 doesnt produce heat at any circumstances. Sound clarity is awesome and crystal clear but not loud. Loud to me is even in noisy background one should be able to hear recipient well and one should feel to reduce the volume at silent environment. Looks volume has limits at OS level and noticed forums have a solution for Oneplus one model. Want to register here so that upcoming OS may get louder volume. Cannot say this phone holds very good Signal strength. There is a difference in signal bars between this phone and my another phone (Same mobile operator) My friend said once that he could not reach me , which is very strange as I never had any receiving issues in years. Battery lasts for a day with just using it as a mobile phone so it can last even earlier if you use other options. Handling this phone is an enjoyment, it is lighter and thinner for its 5 inch HD display and pocket friendly. Apart from the wow factors this phone has also a weird factor. One cannot keep this phone in any surfaces without the rear protective case supplied with. Phone slides over instantly as the rear slide is highly glossy glass surface. Cannot enjoy displaying the rear side of this phone which gives premium look to this phone. Will give 5 stars for two reason, first , encouragement to a very young company for producing technically highly competitive phone for competitive price and the second reason, do not want to discourage potential customers to miss this phone. Note : Everyone's reviews will be based on their earlier phones, mine was lumia 640 and lumia 309. Update on Jan 23 2016 : Screen stopped working, All my excitement lost in just 2 months. Contacted service center, I was asked to wait till Monday as they do not have the tools for repairing oneplus X device. Reducing the stars to 2. Will update on the service.
4|I got mine 5 days back. Fell in love with the design the moment i laid my hands on it. But, thats the whole story about it. Everything else about 1+X is not so fascinating (FHD Amoled display?) While FHD amoled display looks good and is better than almost every other IPS lcd panel in this price range, it's average as per Amoled standards. Display is just enough bright and colors are on the cooler side (blueish tinge noticeable on max brightness). Processor is same as of oneplus one and xiaomi mi4, just slightly under clocked as compared to 2.5 ghz on the mentioned devices. I didn't notice any lag or performance issues thanks to oxygenos which is almost identical to pure android. Dedicated notification settings button is a welcome addition which it inherited from big brother oneplus 2. Button can be switched to 3 settings-All notifications, Priority notifications and no notifications. The most disappointing thing about X is the camera dept. Satisfactory photos can be clicked in well lit conditions with enough details for mobile viewing experience. Low light photos contain a lot of noise and washed out colors. Xiaomi mi4i has a better camera when talking about low light photography. Front cam is surprisingly good considering the performance of primary camera. However, there's some beautification even after turning off the feature. Overall, don't go for it if you're planning to get a good camera phone.. But xiaomi mi4 or nubia z9 mini instead, both have far better camera than oneplus x, specially nubia z9 mini. Battery backup is decent even with average battery capacity, supposedly due to amoled panel being used. Phone came with pre-installed screen guard and a soft silicone back cover.
5|I purchased this phone four days back. After observing carefully on the battery usage I am posting my review. Pros: Amazing Display. Got the mobile in cash back offer. Silicon mobile case freebee by Oneplus. It is really very good. Pretty Fast. Battery Testing Process: Played youtube videos for 3 hours 30 min after 100% recharge. Battery drained out completely. Heat of the phone reached to 44 degrees. I observed this during charging also. We have to charge this mobile daily similar to other smart phones. (If you are just looking for battery please switch to some other phone like Gionee L800. It comes with 3K mah battery and price is 2100. It has nice loud speaker, dual sim, memory extension facilities. If you charge it once you can forget at least for four days even after regular usage) Lot of people are expecting a home theater, power house inside a mobile :) I hope this is not possible at least in 16K range mobiles. Con: We can't rule out the heating issue. But this is general when we have a great processing speed.
3|Those who want AMOLED, daily city usage mobile & desire for the looks of a mobile, can go for it... Almost stock Andriod of course, due to priority slider button software notifications were removed. The bug for SD in settings (Storage) will not show it but, you will be using SD card all the time. Pros:- ====== Super slim & you can feel it Smooth & responsive Complete black mobile theme along with multi-LED notifications. 4G connectivity is good already got 2 patches (for UX & camera) Oneplus is serious about this mobile too Marshmallow update is confirmed for this one too (should wait- how far it helps this mobile for battery/juice saving) GLONASS+GPS works fine, not yet tested while traveling. Camera quality in it's range is noticeable good & pic holds details when maximized customization is an added advantage. got Oxygen OS 2.1.2 latest one on 13-11-2015 itself in India. Cons:- 2 sims & micro SD cannot be used at a time.. Lack of enough juice/battery...may be not suitable for long distance travelers. 32-bit architecture, so well not good enough for all purposes. Fingerprint sensor missing for that price of-course, cannibalizes it's oneplus 2 Camera doesn't have feature to take multi-pics per second though it's available in stock andriod moto E too. Camera consumes time per pic for processing it although it holds details when maximized. Audio quality is medicore not on par in its range & earphones are available on stores not in phone box. I noticed drop in signal, when LTE is enabled & i got a call at the same time Conclusion: it's not ground breaking but, it has that looks to carry in your city, Oneplus should provide complete Stock Andriod with their skin, if given a 2nd chance to buy this mobile it would give a 2nd chance to purchase if- it has fingerprint sensor with 3k Mah juice I have added pictures taken randomly, one is when it was drizzling outside & other in night time without flash under light.
4|I have been using this phone for last 4 days. I shifted from Nexus 5 to OPO X because I was disappointed with Nexus 5X. Why I bought this : I prefer 5" display and stock ROM. Pros : Looks : It feels fit in hands and looks premium phone. Display : with 441 PPI and AMOLED display, colors are much better than Nexus 5. Battery : Battery performance is much better than Nexus 5.It lasted for 8 hrs after heavy use. I am waiting for Android M because that will improve the battery life . Sound : Speaker is much better than other phones .Phone has only one slot at lower end but speaker is loud enough. Cons : It is very slippery .One should go for B2X On guard protection because this phone can slip out of hand any day. 16 GB is too less it should have been 32 . While using with chrome cast , there is a lag in videos. There are some glitches in Oxygen OS but I am hopeful those will be sorted out soon . No back light for capacitive buttons but once you get the hold of it,fingers will move automatically to the right place.
3|This is an excellent looking phone. The OS is almost sock android. I was using a MotoG 2. So 95% no change in UI for me. The phone is fast. Here are the cons due to which I am returning the phone : 1. The SD card is not visible to the Storage menu. 2. There is no setting to store the Photos and videos in external SD directly. 3. The sensor which shuts the screen when you take your phone near your ears is not sensitive. You have hold the phone too close enough to shut the screen. The sensors should have been in the middle of the screen not to a side or they should be sensitive enough to shut it quickly. 4. The video player is having lag. 5. If the phone is having its own UI, then it should have some features, like block number, copy number etc from the Recents menu. If you do not have them and the OS is in infantcy then you should not release the phone with the UI. You should have used stock android. Points 1,2,4 are a part of basic testing which is not done. Point 3 is a design/sw issue.
4|The phone is super smooth with its harware working superfine. It looks magnificent and the feel you get is no less than any high budget mobile.. Camera quality is awesome. The only problem lies in its battery. On high usage one has to charge it at least twice a day. Other than this feature everything else is classy.
1|the phones look good and performs good, but when i insert the earphones and make calls, the receiver unable to hear my voice. i have changed couple of earphones to test it. it works the same with all the earphones.Manufacturer said JBL will work fine, i have bought that also in amazon, and tested it. the receiver cant hear my voice no matter how many trials i make. now im struggling with this mobile running around service centre and making calls to manufacturer to fix the problem. :(
4|Invite INB7-AE50-6777-A13B I have replaced my secondary phone mi 4i to one plus x . The difference I can see is there is no lag amazingly fast and phone doesn't heat up everything is smooth . I have a iPhone 6 also I like this phone for my everyday usage . Only issue is video recording where lots of shaking compared to iPhone 6 but considering the price and features it's a good buy. Other phones to look out Moto play x or even one plus 2 Kindly use this invite INB7-AE50-6777-A13B
5|If anyone need one plus x invite mail me at aashishpattu@gmail.com...please mail me as early as possible.... It's for 300bucks... It is the best phone in that price range..... Design 10/10 Performance 10/10 Battery backup 9/10 Camera 9/10 Display 10/10 What my feeling is any phone of one plus company is satisfiable and worthy to buy that and u won't feel sad even if some new phones by other company is released...if anyone having plan to buy phone under 20k go for it....it will be absolutely a flagship killer of 2016 under 20k what my assumption is.... Another thing is music output through earphone is awesome...but if u r playing through speaker not that good...two speakers are there oe is for use another is for just show off..but its fine I don't feel it as a drawback....There is no phone in a world without a drawback.... Overall This phone is Amazingly awesome and gorgeous to look without a cover.... Yesterday was my one of the happiest day of my life when I got the phone..
5|Another wonderful product by OnePlus. I was lucky to receive the limited edition Ceramic Glass version in my order and it is really awesome. I bought it for my wife and she was really happy to see it. The phone has been working flawlessly since more than a month now. Battery backup is good and overall speed is good too. Camera quality is very good with good amount of details in the pictures. Bottom line, if wife is happy, then it is a good product ....
5|Wanted to take one of the flagship phones but wanted only a 5 - 5.2 inch phone and among the 5 inch phones out there, with the success of oneplus one and two felt that this one would be the best - not disappointed. Screen vs phone size is very good which benefits user like with not so big hands. Camera in night light is also good, comfortable in the hand, buy it if you are looking for a 5 inch phone which fits comfortably in your hand and has a very good performance buy one plus x.
5|If anyone need oneplus x invitation, DM me at @JaiLakshwani https://twitter.com/jailakshwani I have one invitation which will get expire in next 48 hours.
5|Great looking phone. Switched to this from the Oneplus 2 because I preffered the smaller screen. In comparison the phone is slightly slower (Owing to the lower configuration processor and 1gb lesser RAM). The camera on the OP2 is also noticeably better. And of course the battery too just about last 12 hours or regular usage. All in all it's still a bang for your buck. Invites too easier to come by, had to wait for only a week from the day of signing up on the wait list.
5|Camera - I have used Oneplus 2 and I think One plus X beats OP2 in camera department no other words for One plus X all camera features are also in One plus x. Display - Super AMOLED - Best in class beats OP2 Processor - 801 Snapdragon still works best and smoothly and no glitch or hanging in OP X as it comes with 3 GB RAM. Storage - 16 GB hence it comes with SD Card/SIM interchangeable slot in sim tray. Build - I got more liking towards OP X since its back glassy finish looks just sexy. Battery - 2500 mAh battery just gets past day with normal usage. ( Must have Power bank if extensive mobile usage ) Extra add-ons: - Comes with jelly protection cover for back - DUAL SIM, 4G - Alert Slider - Hard buttons to avoid software buttons give more screen size. - Hover over to infra to wake up screen no need to double tap screen, - FM - SD Card Slot Does not have: - Fingerprint sensor
4|Pros: Brilliant gestures Front facing camera is excellent Clarity is Good Light weight Cons Battery backup is some what low to my expectation.You have to adjust the screen brightness to reduce the battery consumption. I could see the headset is included in the product delivery in the description displayed in the amazon site.But it is not so.You have to buy it separately Above all, the delivery is fast as always from Amazon :-)
4|Pros: 1. Excellent build quality 2. Great attention to detail 3. Crystal clear display 4. Great camera Cons: 1. Average battery of 10 - 12 hours for regular use 2. Glass body (front & back), so greater chance of accidental damage This is NOT a substitute for a phablet. Its a great looking, sleek device which gives value for money features. Can compete with phones twice its price in the overall looks & functionality departments.
5|Bought this phone on day 1 and got it delivered on the next day itself. It is an excellent phone, stunning display(AMOLED), smooth a looks cool. Love it.
5|Friends I am looking for an OnePlus X Invite... Pleas message me on +91 8446975028 or E-mail me on inamul.haque06@gmail.com Thanks in Advance!
3|Everything is good , except for the battery, Battery Sucks!!! Something for this kind of performance phone 2525 mAh battery is not sufficient. Battery drains within one day with normal usage, just think if we play games.... Apart from battery mobile also has some freezing issue, like if the mobile is configured to blth headset and you are listening to music and if a call comes and the phone restarts!!!. Also ONE PLUS team needs to work on this phone very badly...
5|It is a gorgeous looking phone. Very much premium looking with good performance, camera and near Android software. The only con is the battery life which may have been better. Better than most phones in the price range even though the chipset seems updated for tech geeks but it is no way inferior than latest phones. Very much satisfied till now and the quality will be tested in long run and hoping for a problem free experience in long run with one plus X. Enjoying every moment.
2|am so sad for this one plus XXXXXX, what i expected that is not in the phone! this mobile is only for moderate usage persons, not heavy usage persons like games and apps addicted people pls dont buy this product, and very heating whiling play games and in charging time, and camera in day time it is okey, bt in low light its not take good pic, pic blur and broken, camera i give out of 5 - 3.5 and otherwise the phone is very good, Totally i disappointed to this mobile
5|Best smart phone ever. Better design than iPhone. Feels so premium and performance is superb for business use. To all the people who say it has an outdated hardware are paid by competitor companies to post bad review. The performance is flawless. I would use One Plus X over One Plus 2 or any other flagship phone like iPhone or Samsung S7 anyday. The screen size and resolution is perfect, having a bigger screen than 5 inches is just not very comfortable with one hand use.
5|I have extra invitation. Let me know if you need
4|Invite for onyx: IN10-BFDF-02E2-99CB Cheers
5|Phone looks premium for the price range it's offered. Cons: Camera at low light conditions not that good here n there lag in some pixels. On screen battery life is not that great it will juice up ur battery so so soon. But good part of it is once ur screen is off with data stream at th3 backend it hardly uses 2 percent for every one hour. Should have had quick charging enabled on this product. Processor, front cam, RAM utility is awesome can Handel any app at any time.
5|Hi, I was keen in buying this phone and after waiting for long time atlast I got the invite and I own one plus x now...the mobile has got killer looks which attracts the attention in your hand,camera specs are good,RAM ofcourse matters alot in mobile,3GB RAM makes it v fast.Only one drawback is both sim cannot be used with SD card,don't know what made this come in.Rest is all good including the battery and OS. Any one needs invite pls mail me raza.hussainmirza110@gmail.com
5|The phone is amazing in build quality, looks, feel and performance. The OS has a bit of bugs but Oneplus is improvising it and releasing updates from time to time to address the bugs.. But you wont notice it that much in your daily use. The performance is snappy and display is just too good. After all a SUPERAMOLED display beats up every other display. It is worth that 17k and you wont feel like using a medium end phone. It will give you a feeling of using a premium phone.
5|Mobile is awesome jst got today delivery is good Pros Screen quality and viewing angles are excellent 3gb ram is working smoothly without lag Touch sensitivity is very smooth Sound quality is excellent but not too loud Front and back camera are very good GPS locking is superfast Cons UI is not upto mark Magnetic sensor missing Focal length of camera are not the best Slight heating on heavy browsing but not too hot
4|Good phone Pros 1) front camera is awesome for selfie 2) rear camera is good for day light pics. Videos are not good. 3) light weight and handy. 4) fast enough for regular activities. 5) charger is awesome, gets lot of attraction. 6) charges very fast. Cons 1) proximity sensor sucks during calls, very bad. 2) average camera performance at low light. 3) battery is average, but not bad. 4) keyboard is average.
3|Oneplus X I feel does not live up to the hype created around it, Its design is very impressive, but it does lack the battery life, and the camera performance. Given the fact the Moto X Play which is marginally costlier than the OPX comes with a better over all package, I would suggest the Moto X Play over this. The initial SD card issue was sorted by the new updates. I really don't have great complaint other than the battery life but wish I had gone with Moto X Play.
5|I have a invite contact me pedamkar65@gmail.com
2|Thanks to amazon.... for on time delivery Pros Nice display resolution for that range of phones Box includes screen guard and Back Cover Oxygen OS With all android features Ram 3GB... Performance is good Cons Restarts in Regular interval Heating up while playing games and using GPRS Photo and Video Recording Quality is not good as said. Can't able to use 2nd sim if u use SD card (sim2 and SD card slot are same)
5|This is an excellent phone. The build quality and design Aesthetics matches that of Apple products. Which makes it even more amazing that it comes at such a reasonable price. The AMOLED scree is top quality, excellent colors and the black makes it delight for the eyes. Camera is decent, slightly above average. Battery life is also more than satisfactory in real world scenario. After a charge in the morning it easily lasts till 10 pm with substantial usage over WiFi and calling with moderate gaming in between. Overall this has been the most satisfying mid range phone I have used. Except for the price there is nothing mid range about this phone, which should easily make it default choice. What you'd be surprised by is the attention given to details in terms of every aspect of hardware ( including soft cover) and Oxygen OS customization. - A very happy customer.
5|It's really hard to feel how premium this phone might feel in hand from the videos. Feels better than iPhone 6 in hand One plus is one of the best. And this one is a quiet beast. Every one knows about the specs when they work hard to get an invite so not talking about that. Few things that I love about this phone 1) The display I was always fascinated by Samsung s6 edge and similar devices because of an AMOLED display. This one feels great 2) the thickness 6.9mm WHOA! 3) the build and design. I have received this phone 8 hours ago and people are already asking what this phone might be. This phone looks better than any of its own photos and certainly better than many flagship devices. Thank you amazon.in for the lightning fast delivery. I think I was one of the first few people to get this phone in the whole world. Hats off!
3|Have been using this since last two months. Its seems good phone. The only issue i faced till now is, when i try to unlock the screen ,it gets struck there and i have to try to multiple times before it becomes responsive. This happens rarely. I accidently dropped my phone in water once and it was submerged in water for good 5 seconds. Later, i swithced off my phone and dried it up completely and switched on. There are no issues after this event as well.
4|Excellent hardware for the money.. Beautiful phone with both sides High quality Corning gorilla Glass. Touch sense is so smooth and screen OLED amazing. Buy this phone comparer to similar configuration Asus or any cheapee phone because those phones are cheap for the less quality hardware. Only flow which make me give 4 star instead of 5 star is the speaker volume. Its is less competitively and i did not like it much.. Overall a great performing quality phone
4|I need this phone! Already on the waiting list... hope i get ab invite soon! If anybody has a spare invite please share it! Thanking you
5|IN3E-9C5B-1465-CBCD Giving away this invite.... all the best ! Who ever gets to use it don't forget to thank me on dr_san_singh@yahoo.com
5|Superfast Delivery, Thanks to Amazon.... Keept it up guys. About the phone in short: 16gb storage, usable only 11+ gb, latest Android topped up with Oxygen OS, 3 gb ram with free upto 2 gb approx+/-. Best snapdragon processor clocked at 2.3 ghz. Purchased Black onyx really awesome looks. Have used almost every budget + premium phones but loved looks of this phone. Slightly depressed by battery life, but thats ok for me. Overall satisfied with yhe buy.
1|Returned product, not up to the expectations, call and signal connectivity issues, often hangs, takes 4 seconds to display the lock screen keypad.
5|I have been using this phone for 3 weeks now and I'm completely satisfied with it. Display is excellent, speakers clear and loud. There is no lag when multiple apps are open. The camera quality is good, there is some noise when pictures are taken on low light, but they are good enough for social media. And when it comes to looks, the phone is one of the best looking ones in the market. If you want a smartphone under 20k, then I will highly recommend OnePlus X
5|I am a fan of stylish and premium devices,to me only thing matters is build quality and style,i prefer smaller phone so that i can do use my mobile with one hand.the display is very good looking,camera is pretty good when compared to same budget phone,the phone will get heated if u play high end games else not.i am not a power users i have disabled most of the functions like gestures,location etc.i use it only for calling,camera and casual browsing.GO For it.
5|I would recommend this phone to each and every one who has got its invite... It's the best Phone Under this price range The build quality is just best And the Oxygen UI is just awsome..Its Camera is awsome with 16 gb internal memory ,u will love the front camera.U will just love this Phone as I am...Its worth every Penny !!! I have 3 invites if u guyz need it, make sure to contact me on my Gmail I'd ?(Gaurav.jha73@gmail.com) I have 4 days left
4|Premium looks, Super quality display, high specs makes this phone awesome. Gifted to wife and she likes it. Will update after a months usage
4|Need a OneplusX invite..If anybody seriously wanna share it free..!! Please Please and it to creatorayush@gmail.com I know Phone is awsme !!
5|1. The product is awesome for the price your paying is worth for this phone, also the protective case is included inside the box. 2. The camera is decent and good for clicking pictures though i cannot post that private pictures so. 3. The build quality is speechless, don't think and get the phone now! OnePlus X Unboxing: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GcFWFtcFCHQ. OnePlus X (Onyx, 16GB) - Invite Only.
5|Procs: 1) Stylish phone in the market 2) Well built 3) Good front camera 4) Rear cam performs extraordinary in day light 5) Excellent performance - no lag, no heating effect, quick charging. 6) Good battery performance. Cons: 1) Low light photograph gets worst noice it in. This camera is not at all good for low light shots. 2) Certain options like moving apps to card are still not available in oxygen OS.
4|I think Moto X play is a better option . Oneplus X is a beautiful phone with glassy finish. Moto X play vs Oneplus Pros 5.5 inches screen Bigger battery NFC Better graphics processor Better camera Better software Cons Little fat compared to Oneplus X Processor is not as good as Oneplus X Nope gyroscope ( Oneplus X has one it is a usefull feature, Google Cardboard needs gyroscope(its a virtual Reality application, or 4D as some call it)). Only 2gb ram.
5|Sir..... What a piece of marvel made by oneplus,,, kindly request all who were in dilemma to purchase this or moto x play..... Go for this one
5|friends if any one of you have a spare invite and can share with me will be really helpful. I promise I will share additional invites publicly.
4|I would have given a 5? but due to 1 minor issue I had to return the product, really disappointed for returning the product. The phone has a very elegant design and filled with so many features in it, awesome ? work done there! I have heard of its wifi connectivity problem but still I ignored and ordered one and I was so unfortunate to face the same problem with my handset too. A smart phone with out an Internet connection is meaningless to use.
4|1.camera comes with basic features. But the clarity and colors are decent. 2.Battery lasts for one full day @ normal usage.screen accounts for max battery usage. 3.No lags no delays. works smooth for all applications( as far i have used) 4. gestures gives easy access to cam,music n screen wake direct from off screen. 5. No comments about design part. its marvelous. 5 finally, screen is awesome n touch sensitivity is very cool.
3|After call phon me balance nahi batata he call ke bad pata nahi lagta Ki kitna charge kata is liye mene phon vapas kar Diya lahrilal s m Surat
1|I was very eager to have this phone after reviews of Oneplus One and Oneplus two. I have used the likes of Iphone 4s, Nexus 4 and Iphone 5s. I needed a dual sim smart PHONE (Android based) with excellent camera. After months of searching heard about this phone, immediately registered for invite and was considering myself lucky enough to get an invite on 6th Nov. Booked and the phone was delivered on Sunday 8th Nov. Got a Nano sim from Idea showroom to replace the previous Micro SIM (on Nexus 4). Inserted the Sim (the only SIM) in Tray 1, I observed there was a little play as the SIM was not fitting perfectly in the slot provided.Made the first call. the call quality was very bad. hardly able to hear anything. Second call was good. Third call again the same issue. I had to use my Mom's phone for making some urgent calls. I then inserted the sim in tray2. Made two calls, first was equally bad and was not able to hear anything. Second call seem to be better but not of the acceptable quality. Disappointed with the phone, it seems all that waiting, Rs. 17k and boasting infront of friends/colleagues of having procured One+X gone waste. The first criteria of any smartphone or phone is to have the acceptable call quality, then rest of the features should follow e.g. Canera, dual sim, hardware, screen size, response, look n feel etc.
3|It has been three months that I have used this product and I think I should have opted for some other mobile in the same price range. The Oxygen OS is pathetic, it isn't fast enough considering the hardware specifications and hangs a lot. The back of the screen attracts a lot of finger marks and I have kept it covered from the beginning. I have heard criticisms from One Plus 2 users as well about the OS and wouldn't recommend any phone using Oxygen.
4|I have given the invite to one of the guy who requested so plz no more invite Thanx
5|I had a budget of 85000 INR and wanted to buy iphone 6S but after a lot of secondary research, I finally ended up buying this phone. Boy, am I glad with this decision. This is a fantastic phone (Champagne version). I just loved it. I am going to buy ipad Air 2 (WIFI and Cellular) version in 128 GB so both my requirements are now met. Amazon and the seller did a great job with this purchase. I'm totally happy with what I have received. Go for it!!
5|Simply Awesome. I'd booked OPX on October 24th and got at October 25th. The packaging was really awesome. and For the first time charging, the battery got full with 2-3 hrs. Mobile Finishing was Excellent. Lot of Options are available in Settings menu. Camera Quality It was stunning. Front Camera was excellent but takes 2.2 mb fir front camera image and 4.2 mb for back camera image. But Simply Awesome. If Apple has iphone, Android Gotta 1+. Well
2|when product come in my hand. its looks beautiful and handy mobile phone. back side of this phone is very sensitive and and there are chances to get scratches on back panel as it is very glossy. if you use back cover, its looks very ugly. In range of of you will get better mobile. it has only 16 GB Rom only which is draw back of this handset. Battery is also poor. you will get many other handset of 16GB in 10000 range so why pay 17000 for it..
3|design and look is plus and feels premium.. battery back up is average though.. performance is not bad but lags sometime..lags while switching to airplane mode and when waking up the screen to see new alerts.. its is not capturing the Internet connection Oftenly needs to switch on and off the airplane mode to get the Internet connection back.. so far okay mobile for the price so who wants mobile with premium look can go for this mobile blindly..
4|This phone Rocks in this price range but sd 801 its showing its age but its good battery life average but it will receive marshmallow update
5|Im from Kerala, Trivandrum. Got the phone here within 24hrs. Shocked...! Overall had a good experience with the order and product...!!!
4|Pros Love the phone. Easy to carry, less weight, Its handy and awesome. Comes with a silicon cover and scratch guard fixed on the phone. Cons - The only drawback is it is either Sim 2 or Memory Card - The flash doesnt work if you take pictures on the night. The camera app has to be improved - Phone app doesn't show immediately when you are using other apps. I hear ring but the call answer button shows after 8 to 10 secs
2|Pros: Good Build quality, DIsplay, speaker sound medium, little bit heat up Cons: Average battery back up, No gallery & Camera app, lots of struggle to keep mobile in silent(Vibration) and general mode, Most annoying thing is there is no cal waiting tone so each time i miss the call... Light sensor does not work properly... started the process to return the device Buy this mobile if build quality matters not the basic function.
5|Have used it for more then two weeks and found this phone good. I have install more then 185 apps and no lags in the phone. Battery stays for a day and need to charge it every night. Little Heating issue while using camera and playing games but i have no issues its still performs better with no hangs and lag. OnePlus is always keeping its phones updated by releasing patches for Bug fixes. just now updated a patch of 35mb. Cheers..
4|Product received on dhanteras..... Awesome looks and interface, flash not found in photo while using camera. Great product by oneplus.
1|don't buy it!! waste of money, ordered it on 15 nov got it after days very poor delivery. about the x device was heating too much while just updating the apps. so,requested a replacement for it and again it took 5 days to deliver the product. this time product was not heating that much but after 2-3 days i noticed that the display has a yellowish tent. on full brightness- while bendind it the color was white in chrome applctn but holding straight the white turned yellow...i was shocked whats this s***,the left side was white and the right was yellow. i didn't notice the yellow color in low brightness or using it normaly but when bending towards the front and then putting back to normal the differnce was clearly visible..maybe got the defective units TWICE...:( now i hv ordered oneplus 2...hope that doesn't disappoint me..
5|I am writing this review after using 1 month. The performance of the mobile is really outstanding. Touch quality, feel, design, gestures,etc. Are really good. The image quality of camer is awesome. Front cam is also good for selfies. Front cam erases the smaller dots & black spots while taking selfies. That was the good experience. I highly recommend you to buy this phone. Really its value for money. A very thanks to One Plus & Amazon.
5|OnePlus X phone is super and beauty but Earphones not included, fingerprints technology is not there, this is what where Phone is Lacking.
5|nice product, with great screen . But camera can have more feature like One plus two with more inbuilt memory. Rest it the beast in tself,
5|Anyone need invite contact me kasim2ka@gmail.com bcoz I don't want 2 waste my invites .........itz awsme featured phone....before 15/11/15
5|OMG - Those were the words which came out of my mouth when i first hold the phone in my hand believe me guys this phone is so much premium looking even my friends got jealous amazon took a Lil while this time to deliver the product but ts okay as it is festival season the battery could've been better but overall 5/5 star will update after using it for sometime. Anyways anyone want a invite (yup it's free) ping me @prateekjdn9@gmail.com
3|The phone looks good, the only issue, I could see is signal reception issues. I did try the same sim in the other mobile in the same place shows very good signal strength where as One plus x shows weak signal strength. I am not sure the issue is with my piece / with One Plus X. so I did return the product. Heating: You play / browse for 20 min, the back case gets warm. Display & Multi tasking , looks are really god.
4|i have got this product for rs16999-6.6%cashback i.e rs 15877 you can also buy from cashkaro and save thousands over Internet shopping(amazon, myntra, jabong, snapdeal&many more)and an unbelievable cash back of 20%on American swan's site . you may get extra 100rs credit if you join with the following link http://cashkaro.com/r=119426 just copy the link in your browser's address bar and enjoy great savings
5|Exactly what I wanted in a phone. It's feels like custom designed for me... Now I am a big fan of OnePlus. Rich in features, nice design.
5|Nice phone. Camera quality Awsome. Nice processor. Touch like makkhan. Gallary, Music Player, Video player company inbuilt missing.
3|Good not Great. Hardware is up to the mark but not function, they need lot of improvements. They are using gmail for emailing which is not good, you have to download third party app for emails. Battery life is also not impressive. Overall good, phone call not dropped, speed is good, very good looks, both camera is also upto the mark, sound quality is good. Light weighted. Just little improvements and it would take 5 Star.
4|I bought is specially for its Onyx and metallic finishing....Initially there was a problem with external SD cards with memory > 32 GB. In a couple of weeks Oneplus has delivered an update to fix this issue...Now it is supporting all SD cards upto 128 GB. It is more than worthy at this minimal price... One thing I felt bad about this phone is: Expected finger-print scanner, but unfortunately it is not present in Oneplus X
5|Excellent Piece, The Phone is in itself a marvel. Have been using since past few days and no issues encountered. Sleek, Light weight, beautifully designed and economical. Camera is of good quality (if looking for a camera quality of Pro, you are in the wrong section :) ) If you are looking for a stylish phone which do not drill a hole in you pocket and is still trendy enough to be flaunted, Look no further. Highly recommended
5|What an Amazing device at an unbelievable price , Looks wise it more sleeker and better than an iphone 5s , Camera captures are simply superb .. i feel its better than an I Phone 5s which i have used in the past . The best product by One Plus till Date .. Go for it if you looking for a device in 25- 30k range as i feel this one is under priced comparing it to Samsung , HTC , etc which have equivalent or less features / specifications
4|The mobile One plus X is otherwise very good and performance is also very good. But to my dismay I found that it is a two sim mobile as if I use 2 sims I have to forego S. D. card or micro card facility. As such I am using a single sim +micro card. I would have appreciated had this fact was given in the specification itself. It amounts to keeping customer in dark Therefore I am rating it as 4* otherwise I would have given 5*
5|Having a Invite for OnePlus X. Anyone needing it. Ping me on 9677004613. I'll book it for you. By the way, amazing phone!
4|Nice phone at this price.. Nice looks, display is just awesome,Sound quality is also loud and clear,performance is also good I personally don't have any issue with the performance, no lags at all even with the multiple browsing, its good that you can extend the memory in this device, loved the flat USB cable Camera is not so good as compared to oneplus one & oneplus two, battery is also a issue it drains quickly
5|I have been using the phone for a week now & I really love it. For me 1. Had a decent battery life (Same as that of Samsung S4, except much better) 2. Good display clarity and brightness. The only things I didn't like was with the software. I hope Oneplus will be soon rolling out updates for the Software Bugs. I would recommend this phone for people who wants a Design Concept & not on Performance based.
1|I ordered the product and I was facing issues with a severe ghost touch problem. The phone was practically unusable. I requested for a replacement, however even replacement had the same issue. Being an IT expert i can tell you that it is a software problem with oxygen os and the timeline for the fix is not set. When i contact customer care he does not believe that this problem exists and rudely tells me to buy another phone. Oneplus is still a young brand and their quality is not meant to be trusted. Even other friends of mine have had issues with oneplus one, a few months after the warranty expired. I would advise people not to get caught up in the hype that is generated by oneplus for their mobiles (Invites system, aggressive advertising on amazon, etc.). There are also better specked phones you buy in the same price range. As for other chinese brasnd I would recommend Xiaomi. They much have better standards. However i did love the display of this phone. No other phones, with exception of a few samsungs, give you the contrast color and viewing angle that this phone provides. And the pro would be 3gb ram. It is a brilliantly designed phone unfortunately it is made by oneplus which is where things go wrong.
3|ive bought this phone on 26th dec ! on the first look ive thought that this is the nice phone ive ever got ! after using two days the battery started draining fastly ... ;( i was charging it two times a day! wtf .. ! having 3 gb ram but only 1.4 gb ram only free.. better phone for the light users.. but one plus have made a great phone with one drawback .. the BATTERY.. but the one plus is better company compared to samsung .. ! :P
5|A great phone to have. Only one thing which I didn't like in it is that it has a dual sim option but if you want to use a memory card then you cant use the second sim. As the second sim and memory card slot are same so its on you what you want dual sim or one sim and memory. Or else the phone looks and performance is full on marks. I use a single sim so it doesn't matter but who use two for them I will suggest think twice.
4|Just go for it ! light weight and one hand use . Need an invite, let me know. Free of Cost. Expires in 3 days from today.
1|review after using it since one month........... worst product i ever used .... 1. battery last with in 5 hours,in normal use. 2. so many bugs in software 3. heats up....on 3G 4. aaps corrupted after using a while. then we have to clear cache to get it work.... 5. sensors not working properly like when on call it wrongly pressed by ears taken to aeroplane mode or dialing some numbers ....
4|The phone is good in each and every aspect.. only thing is i find that sometimes there is a problem of touch in the phone.. this has happened to me only 2-3 times though in the last 3 days. I wished to replace the product but only option available was return so had to use it.. hope it doesn't give that problem in future.. If you are in confusion whether to buy or not i would recommend this phone.. no other cons are found till now..
4|Have been interested in the brand OnePlus ever since their breakaway model of One. So when the news were surfacing up on their emphasis on design for their next phone, I started waiting for it. And it doesn't dissappoint. Its of course not the flag ship killer or even close to its predecessors. But its a well crafted piece with good enough specs for this price range. Go for it if you want a premium device with food specs.
5|Ultimate android experience.. looks are like replica to iphone 6.. using it for Battery is good... Camera quality is too good (even at bad light).. Main Initial impression for me is-> Build Quality. There is no lag in responses..good performance ((observed on 24hr usage.. ) while removing the 1+ logo screen cover, be careful... as it contains screen guard which is already placed inside to the logo cover...
5|I've a spare inivite IN17-BA19-7168-50C4 Go for it. It's probably best in in 15 to 20k segement, it will probably beat other high end smartphones in terms of looks and design. Pros: - Gorgeous 5 inch AMOLED display - Great for One handed use - MicroSD card extension - Snapdragon 801 chip - Near stock android experience Cons: - No Optical Image Stablization
2|Cons: - Mic problem ( Others cannot hear you, unless you are loud) - Battery drain ( Left my phone idle overnight..it dropped 10% with no apps running in the background). My iPhone 5s with 1500mah battery lasts longer. - Oxygen OS - should have been like CYNOGEN...no app lock, true caller integration etc.. - Camera- Very bad low light photography.. mi 4i captures better snaps than this. - Priority slider button - not easy to use and also should have been alternate options like silent , vibrate and loud) - Fingerprint Scanner Integration would have been a deal breaker. - Slippery - 32 bit processor (Marshmallow needs 64bit architecture) Pros: - Feels like iPhone 6 - Display I just returned the product back to Amazon :)
1|I'm giving just a single star for one plus as they started selling this phone in certain markets without basic testing.I really liked the look and feel of the phone.But a good phone means good hardware and a software optimized for that.One of the most important features of this phone is the inclusion of SD card.Unfortunately in this phone SD card doesn't work the way it should work.If you try to move app to SD card it says insufficient space.Many people who bought this in France reported this.This is a basic thing that works in any phone with price tag of 2 or 3k. One plus is treating us as their testers.I don't want to be tester who pays money from his own pocket.So I returned the phone within one day.If anyone wants to buy wait for onplus to fix the issues.Oneplus could have avoided these if they had used time for testing instead of creating "cheap" hype in market.
5|I have an invite. I am not going to use it. Anyone can use it: OnePlus X IN43-FAD7-C75C-36E9 Claim within 3 days!
4|One Plus X is okay. Very good features. Some basic features are below par. E.g.when my 1000 contacts were updated from Google One Plus X is unable to correlate the name and numbers since it recognises a cell no.only if entered as +91 98 34 508754 and hence most of the time I see only numbers when I get a call instead of the name of the Contact. Hence I am unable to differentiate between a sales call and My Contact. Very painful.
5|The product was delivered within mentioned timeline, and was as it was described. Phone really matches its expectations on looks, performance and price. Best Phone under 20 K. I did not notice that it has Mono speaker and thought one of the speaker is not working, and called Amazon for return and without no delay they placed replacement order, and replacement phone was arrived just within 2 days.
3|one thing I am impressed is that Amazon delivered the mobile within 2 days thank u for that nw there is something to say about one plus x it's Hass a gud camera quality both front and back great design and the sound quality is also gud, but using in this one week I found that there is issue in battery, it's not dat gud compare to other mobile no app music songs are gng in SD card. all things are saving in phone memory
3|The first impression is the best impression. Looks kills. Slim,light weight,glass panel,metal frame makes this phone great in looks! Secondly, AMOLED SCREEN Excellent display in this range. I rate amoled higher than the lcd. OS was quite good with many software issues wish that will be sorted in future updates. Yet to play with camera and memory card and sim card. Battery seems to be a issue and the heating is there when used heavily or playing hd games. Lag is there but not irritating. Played modern combat blackout, asphalt nitro and did not face any lags but frame drops yes. Front cam is okay. Overall first impression i like it. Will play with it for one whole week and see how it works normally with battery signal and stuffs. Lets see. Will update after week. Wait for my update.
5|superb product , Its feature , specification design style ,beats the apple and samsung galaxy note.i used samsung galaxy note earlier but there was hang problem, This company will capture the entire market...freinds i was just about to purchase apple phone or samsung galxy note But my crietera was more than 2 GB rom and dual sim , But non other Than ONEPLUS was fullfilling my expectation.. keep it up onePlus....My best wishes
3|Looks nice and premium.. works like a breeze..! But don't buy it if your primary intention is to grab the space it offers.. as you cannot share the external memory for app usage (nope not even camera) What's the point of having 128gb expansion. This was confirmed by one plus customer care., hence returned it and took my refund. Bottom line, buy it only if you need a good dual/single sim mobile sans external storage.
3|Looks are amazing, but overall sim problems keeps popping up now and then your primary number on sim1 stops responding even when it has full signal, have observed lot of friends,relatives calling me but phone was not reachable. Battery is okay but the USB-3 charger just boosts the charging in few minutes. Pro's Good looks, sleek design, faster OS. COn's Sim card problem. Battery life
3|The product is good overall. Although i got a product with a minor screen defect. And maybe there is a problem with the latest update. The phone misbehaves when put on charging. Opens apps without command. I am sure they will look into it and solve it soon. Kudos to @Amazon and its service. Got my refund in just a day, when I returned the product. I would recommend to buy from amazon as it gives the best service to customers.
4|Was very happy with one plus giving an invite within 12 hours of request and even happier with Amazon for delivering within a day without a one day delivery request. The phone is awesome perfect for ordinary users and sexy looks. If you are a gamer you'll find a hard time with the battery but it is manageable it will come up to a day or so. Also it fits in my palm and very smooth experience. A must buy :)
5|This phone is so cool, even it attracts envy from your friends and neighbours. Glass amalgamates with metal with finesse. This phone is not having any advanced features like finger print scanning, usb 2c and wifi ac etc. But the deadly looks and smooth operating system takes us to next level. I am impressed with lag free performance and glossy amoled screen with 441 ppi. Highly recommended for those who are on a tight budget.
2|Been using this phone for the last 1 month and am not satisfied with it. Hardware, display and camera excellent. The phone is ruined by a nonsense battery which drains by 4pm after full charge, under moderate use. Battery saver mode increases the capacity but background data has to be sacrificed. The phone sometimes heats up under normal use. Someone not bothered about battery can give it a try else don't even think about it
4|Please provide support for punjabi language. I was using iPhone but your company offers best of both android and iPhone so I bought it. It is really good but I and most of my friends were facing problem reading or writing punjabi on it even when swiftkey supports punjabi typing. Please do needful at the earliest otherwise the expenditure on ad campaign for OnePlus X by Amazon or your company will not attract required results
5|all over phone packed with good specification so performing great almost with all task's... according to me guy's it is worth and paisa wasul if you buying this phone at this price segment... And if any one need an invite please mail me i have more three opx invite.... and i don't want invite's get waste or expired... so if genuine buyer need an invite mail me... khanssahil86@gmail.com.... and it's for free...
5|Stunned by Amazon services for delivering within 48hrs in normal delivery option. Coming to review the black beauty there are no words I can describe for the performance and looks. 10/10 in almost all parameters. Lot of people has written pros n cons in technical terms so no point repeating them. Just one thing it is THE best in this price range. Just go for it guys without even thinking twice if you want the BEST.
5|plz I need to buy the phn anyhow share me invite at this no. 9557374053 or email me at 1392whizkidgmail.com thank you very much
1|im facing the hanging problem though i dint install any apps into the phone. its been less than a week that im using this phone. overall its good but it hangs when i want to unlock the phone with power button and sometimes during calls.I shifted from Htc One M7 to OPX because the former one was hanging. Now, im experiencing the same issue.. Overall im not satisfied fully with the product even though i spent this much.
5|Awesome phone killer look I hAve extra invites anyone wants just mail me satinderbhangu11@gmail.com New Invite IN39-936A-E7BE-9CF8
4|One Plus X Invite. Claim within 2 Days. 1. INFD-97F8-75A6-40D7 2. IN92-F185-7D0C-C222 3. INB5-112F-3E18-005F 4. INA4-8469-4DEE-B2FC
3|Frankly speaking i was so excited to buy one plus X but when I bought it, it started giving me problems. It was getting hang time by time, even while performing video shoot, it was getting restart again and again. That might be a defective piece. But Amazon service was excellent who took it back and returned my money back without any hassles. Hats off to Amazon and I am sorry that I didn't become part of one plus family.
4|Got my mobile with excellent delivery within a day and that counts for a lot Coming to the mobile itself, the screen is alone worth the price. You get an immediate Oxygen OS update. Charged my battery once and it charges quickly. Apps are running smoothly. A drawback I would like to state is with the keyboard which does not register some clicks. Probably another update will lead to this being fixed.
4|OnePlus X (Onyx) - Invite OnlyI started the phone without SIM, in 3rd page I connected to my Wi-Fi and it shows as connected but on next page it continued showing "Connecting to Wi-Fi" but didn't proceed. I tried connecting to another Wi-Fi and still the same problem. Immediately I contacted the Bangalore customer support (Ticket# 110528) where the support executive suggested me to switch off phone and hard reset the phone (Volume down button + power button). Then suggested me to format the device. Then when restarted it took about 1 minute 30 seconds to connect to the wi-fi. Now there is no issue with Wi-Fi. Apart from that its very beautiful. Its only 4 hours I am using it. Need more hands on before sharing more feedback on this
5|Quick review: Positives: Build quality is excellent. Screen, being AMOLED, is great. Loudspeaker volume is good. Call quality is also very good. Battery life is good. Downside: Slippery without a case. Official flipcover is highly recommended, as it's of excellent quality. Fingerprint magnet! Overall: great phone for the price. No regrets purchasing it.
5|From Nexus(Cam) to IPhone(notif slider) all in a single mobile... Simply Awesome, It comes with the latest Oneplus OS Oxygen 2.1.3-x Pros * Battery Stamina is Good * Processor is Excellent * Cam quality and built up is also good * Memory Card Slot upto 128gb * Priority Notification Slider * Display Pixels are extremely good * Overall the hardware and software performances are also good * Has FM Cons * The use able internal memory is just 11.4gb * Service Centres arent available except for big cities * has some warming issues after intense processing and gaming * graphics could have been better, but can't expect much on a 17k model. * No removable Battery
4|Cons - 1. No backlight buttons 2. Oneplus one had 2 speakers at bottom, this has grill for 2 but only one speaker. other is just a show. 3. No NFC 4. Hybrid SIM is a big downer. with 16GB internal you will need memory card which would mean second sim gone. Pros - 1. Screen 2. Battery life 3. Built is amazing 4. Better charger and cable than opo 5. OS is butter. Since is specially made for a specific device. OS is more stable than cyanogen and better. 6. Phone comes with screen guard already applied and a back cover - this itself would cost about 500rs. Well, I would say a good buy at 17k but then would have been super hit if they had taken care of cons even at cost of another 1k.
4|pros - awesome build, great looks, the black oxygenos theme is great. the phone comes with a screenguard and cover - a delight feature. a powerpacked phone at much less price. cons - the capacitive unlit buttons at the bottom, battery not that great, sometimes a bit of a lag while unlocking the phone, options in camera menu are very basic overall a great phone with stunning looks and value for money.
5|Awesome phone. Total value for money. Personally, I am an iPhone fan & user, this device attracted me towards it and made me switch. You can possibly do anything with the device and total user friendly. Top it up with a 32gb MMC and you are good to go. Battery is a lil down side keeping the slim design in mind, its not a bother to full charge your phone twice a day while using the phone. Overall a must buy for 17K.
5|Super slim #OnePlus X Mobile Excellent Display Fast Processor nice Camera Value for Money and Best Smartphone under 17k price.
5|Dear folks, I have an invite for one plus x which is valid for next 24 hours. If someone interested to buy one plus x and waiting for invite they can directly approach me thru ani27633@gmail.com but whomsoever is approaching i wanted an acknowlegdement that they have used my invite so that I stop offering others. Thank u. Btw fone is awesome. Screen is crisp due to superamoled. Great specs.
5|Only three days yet. Phone working well. Screen gets fingerprints and smugged very easy and difficult to clean completely.
3|Using from 2 weeks, 1.problem with flash for camera but working fine with video and slow motion videos, need to delete cache and start again for flash. 2. Problem with audio player while using Facebook. When clicking like button the songs get disturbed. 3. Battery consuming So fast after updating to latest oxygen os. Touch,design and feel was excellent. Waiting for software update. :(
4|Great phone. Always worderd what great about onplus, unless I used it. Vivid color, good display and decent battery life. WiFi connection is a of problem, had to feed the IP manually sometime. I guess that's the common problem. Quite sleek in look and very slim. Actually after this I got a oneplus two as well and that's a better update to this one if your budget allows. Else this is great phone to have.
4|One Plus X review after 10 days of use Pros 1 Nice Camera 2 No lags 3 Great Looks 4 Great Oxygen OS 5 Crystal Clear Display 6 Build quality is great Cons 1 Decent Battery backup 2 Processor is 801 32-bit architecture. 3 Both sides glass so handle with care One plus x delivers more than it's price.No heating issues .An-tutu benchmarks is 40723
5|Been using this phone for 3 weeks now. Superb. Have an extra invite. Contact me on akichawla01@gmail.com for invite.
4|worth of 17k and battery is not that good in the sense it has some 2535mah so it gives more that one and half day standby and using with wifi one day battery you can watch four movies continously and still you will have some charge perfomance is the best apart no lags and one minor issue is there in microsd card detecting by ota it will be soon rectified by next update .after buying it must update the phone
3|Battery Drains very quickly.Battery will not long for more than 2 hours if u start seeing videos both on online and offline .It also heats up while charging when data connection is kept open. Coming to amazon ,I appreciate the service and timeline .Because of their service they are No 1 in India .But amazon has to clearly investigate the products prior to displaying and making it as Amazon Fulfilled .
1|I used this phon from last 3 days. I found the battery performance is poor.in low brightness and 5 hours WiFi the total life of battery is only 9 to 10 hours. Phone is dual sim but for secondary sim u have to chose second sim or memory card. It's means it is not a fully dual sim phon. Need to improve more you 1+. I suggest don't buy this phon. Because in same price you can get better phon like moto x etc.thanks amazon for your refund policy.one plus cc team dont know anything even they dont know how to treat customer.plz dont buy this phon and also u amazon dont sell this phon this phon will damage your reputaion in ecommerce
1|Worst experience I had using dis phone. Many apps don't work in it. The one plus launcher doesn't get loaded quickly. Bluetooth connectivity issues.I don't understand is this the issue with one plus or just the phone model I got. And return policy of amazon just 10 days how can one experience phone so well within 10 days.Either I need a new phone model or some solution for my current phone to work properly
5|The specs of the One Plus One meet almost iPhone like slickness. I had a HTC One before and I couldn't have been happier with it. That was until I used the One Plus X. Light, great screen resolution, excellent camera, super fast coupled with great battery life. Looks like a million bucks but doesn't burn a hole in your pocket. Super quick Amazon delivery also. I'm so glad I never settled for anything else!
5|I got invite on release day morning ...... 2:05 PM 05Nov2015 i ordered and 06Nov2015 3:00 I got my delivery without any extra charges...With in 25 Hrs i got delivery really need appreciate their speed delivery.Product was really nice and still i need to explore many things..Only drawback is without headphone. Tryto include in next release. Pros: Slim Camera was superb Slow motion video Complimentary Case Shortly i ll post many images and videos Hi Guys, My USB charger PIN is slightly bent Is moulding problem or product problem. I tried returning it but Return option is not highlighting. PFA image for ref Kindly help me to solve my problem
4|The phone is outstanding and the features are matchless to any phone in this price bracket except for Battery drains quickly.
4|Very good phone to Handel the way it design it cool,weight is very less compared to other one plus device,and smooth operated
4|I am satisfied with the product. Look is great. I wish to suggest that the headphones should be provided with the mobile phones. The drawback is that you can insert only one sim if you are using SD card. Separate space for SD card should be provided. To remove and insert sim, you always have pin which is again difficult to carry pin everywhere. There should be some other ways to insert and remove simcard.
5|Dude.. Some stupids think the camera is faulted and gives a blurred image. First remove the white sheet on the backpanel and then you'll know the clarity. One plus please note that I also thought the same initially ....
3|Great looking phone and performance is decent too. I don't like the camera so much as the picture quality is not so great. The screen is bright and poppy but it has a blue tint to it which I don't like at all. Nothing extremely bad though about it and nothing extremely good either. It's a great budget phone in a premium package. If you are looking to spend under 20k for a phone then go for it.
5|I have four invites for you all, my Amazon friends on occasion of this upcoming Christmas festive season. The fastest four to read this review grabs it!! INF0-9F82-9DF0-5223 IN39-95CB-B0BA-115E IN24-5974-350C-9127 IN5E-9B88-E51F-1816 Come and use this invite to grab this awesome beast device soon! Without any waiting in queue line. Thanks!
1|Don't know where to complain, I got this one on time. I am facing two problems since start. One is automatically the mobile is shutting down with no reason and the second is speaker is not working properly. Moreover, I am using it since 3 months and not working up to the mark, especially the sound is not good and mobile will get heat very quickly if play videos or games. Do not buy this mobile guys....!
2|Good Camera, but gets heated up on top left just for 10-15 min of use :( returned it twice but the same problem was repeated
1|Product has multiple bugs...voice mic does not work during video chats irrespective of the platform ; be it hangout or Skype
4|Been using the phone for over a month now. Performance is good. Camera quality is amazing, both front and back. The charger adapter however hasn't worked since day1?. Looks flashy though. Touch sensitivity is very good so much so that sometimes calls go on hold if u press it a little too much to your cheeks: Overall it's a decent phone with good features at this price point.
5|I bought this phone and I am very happy that I did so. It is snappy and fast. The UI is 99% stock Android and doesn't hog the memory. But above all, the build quality is marvellous. You can't ask for more in this price. It feels very premium and makes a statement. I am yet to test gaming on it but Snapdragon 801 is a capable processor for gaming, the only downside being the Adreno 330 GPU. The phone also comes with a translucent case which is not mentioned. This is a fantastic phone. If Oneplus had added a better processor, this would have killed lots of other smartphones and would have been a real flagship killer. I would highly recommend buying this phone at this price point.
1|Looks like this phone was made just to lure customers under 20k pricetag.. The performance has degraded badly within 1 month itself..1) "phone locks automatically"... 2) "any open app goes to the background on its own"... If anyone looks at this complaint, please "DON'T" purchase this phone.. It's not even worth waisting money on.. Better look for the "BRANDED" phones.
1|The battery doesn't last more than 6hours. My room mate also has the same phone but he is not facing any such issues. Charge stats: Mrng 8AM 96%charge. Afternoon 1PM 56% Afternoon 2PM 10% chrage. Usage: Data will be on during this whole time. but the background data will be off. So data will not be used that much. occasionally whatsapp will be checked. Screen will be off most of the time.
4|Pros : 1.Beautiful phone with good build quality 2.No sd card problem 3.No heating issue 4.Awesome performance 5. 1080p amoled screen is superb especially while watching full hd videos, 6. Excellent packing and service by Amazon, Excellent Seller. 7. Value for money Cons : 1. Noise while photos taken with rear camera 2. music and call quality average.
5|It's a really awesome device. The device is slim, light wait and looks sexy more than the images here :D Perfect for small hand and those who don't like big phones. Although some extra features like NFC, Fast Charging, etc etc are missing the phone is still awesome as at this price point no one is going to give you all that stuff, specially the 3gigs of ram. P.C. : Asus Zenfone 2
4|Phone looks and functions perfectly. It lacks in battery performance. Attaching few snaps and will add more photos later...
4|Premium phone in a good price...durability is a concern tho.. Handle with care.. Major con being no notification backlight.
5|Great phone in the this price range. Used for couple of days and happy with the battery life and overall performance so far. Adding headset in the accessories would be really nice. Only problem though is the charger type.... Can't connect any other data cable nor use this data cable with any other charger due to the connector type. Overall satisfied with the phone and service provided by the seller.
4|The Product is awesome in functionality and look wise. But it is disappoint me with camera. It's camera quality and zoom level is very poor and also no additional functionality to improve the image. There is a lake of finger print reader. Finally if One plus improved it's camera quality and add finger print reader then i want to buy this product again. I am loving it.
4|Was looking for a 5 inch display smartphone with decent configuration. Had narrowed down to Lenovo vibe P1 n Oneplus x. Got feedback that lenovo service is not good. Hence decided to buy oneplus x. This one met my expectation.. Display is too good. Hardware config is decent for this amount Only the FM radio app is not that good.. Or it may be because I'm using some other brand earphones
2|It's a great looking phone, sits comfortably in the hand. Excellent finish. On performance it failed to impress. There is a lag while typing on the keyboard. Camera gives grainy pictures, unless it's outdoors and bright outside. The screen is just about ok and does not have the sharpness one would expect from a LED screen. The cheaper, Rs 10.000 micro max nitro 2 had better performance.
4|Very Impressed with the Box Packing.I think other brand cell phones are still far behind with the packing they give..be extra Cautious when you take out the film cover of the phone,it may come out with the screen guard.Full Marks to the design and asthetics.Classy looks,full glass body,May invite a lot of finger prints.A good phone for multi tasking.Will say One plus x is a value for money phone..
4|Today, I charge my phone to 100% in morning at 8am. My son played games like subway and watched you tube from 8.30 AM to 12 noon continuously and connected to Wifi all the time. my battery is somewhat around 36% showing now. I did not check without playing games, but battery will last after 1 day if you play 1 hour games.on time shipping and good product.display is too good compare to Oneplus One.
5|What more you want in 17k? Dude the phone is AWESOME. My one plus life is now a week old and this is my first review. Let's start from the body, the back looks so beautiful and costly! The front and back of the phone together make this stand with those high ended phones.hardware is also the best; 3 gb ram camera quality touch panel,!! New update of oxygen os makes it work more better!
5|Great phone!! Really fast delivery by amazon. Also received OTA update for Oxygen OS 2.1.2 right after unboxing. Overall pretty smooth UI and operation. Love the phone!! A very attractive piece worth showing off. Thank you OnePlus for the back cover and screenguard, didn't expect this actually lol... waitng for tempered screen guard. though. A great buy, worth the money. Full paisa vasool.
5|Never Settle ! Compared to OnePlus One/Two :) * Expandable memory * FM radio * 8MP Front camera
4|Great product so far.. Amazing customer service by Amazon so far because the device didn't create any problem till now!!
4|Phone looks awesome. I read in many reviews that the camera quality is not up to the mark. But actually it gives decent pictures. No heating issues. A headset would have been added value. No tempered glass fits properly. One plus should launch a tempered glass. Other brands spoil the looks of the phone. Battery is real let down to this phone couldn't even last for half a day for a normal usage.
5|I'm Absolutely Happy with my oneplus x... Display is super good "AMOLED" loved it (Better than S4 Full HD Screen i have tested) Extremely Recommended this to every one.. Camera : Brilliant (Better Than Oneplus One for Capturing LOW LIGHT Photos) Front Camera : 8MP is too good Design : Very Premium Cons : Capacitive touch buttons do not light up
4|One plus x is the best moblie and it is at reasonable cost so. If u want invites contact me at 7730068106 what's up only
4|Excellent product.after reviewing so many I choose one plus x.performance really good no mobile in mid range give this type performance Good mobile battery backup and speed is very good.go for it. Amazon service is also good i would appreciate especially amazon customer care people who has followed up until the delivery of the product. keep going amazon in same way. Happy service from amazon
4|Its a looker. Great looks for the price.Decent configuration but thought that there could have been a discreet memory card slot which could have helped it being better than lot other dual SIM phones. Atleast they shud have come up with 32GB and 64GB versions. Oxygen OS is the biggest drawback for the phone. Waiting for Cyanogen guys to work on a decent alternative. Dont care about warranty.
5|Excellent Product. I have a one plus x invite valid for today. Pl contact me subbukaps@gmail.com. Free only.
5|One word. Fantastic device. This phone is simply the best money can buy at this price. Great service by Amazon as well.
5|Received my one plus x on 31st Dec, till date working in excellent condition, Battery pick up is good, no lag, 3 gb ram feels proud while comparing to similar range products,camera is also nice. It gives premium mobile feel but only problem is we should take care little more because of front and back glass finishing. For safety back cover is mandatory, accept safety overall is excellent.
4|Looks are the best part about this phone. Light weight, slim are some good features. Sound quality is also good Speed is okay okay, OS interface could have been much better ( I personally dont like bland Android OS) And yes it doesnt heat up like one plus two :P Camera is also okay. Overall, better than one plus two but i believe one plus one was a better product.
5|Email me on deep_bhavsar92@yahoo.com
4|Good phone . Touch as good as iphone . Additional memory card slot makes it better for storage but the same slot is for another SIM. you can use it as either Dual Sim phone or Single SIM with memory card. Cant read Punjabi fonts unlike iphone and samsung phones. Battery although bigger in capacity but lasts one day only. Never hanged in a month. Value for money phone.
4|My review here is targeted towards the OPX camera!!!! Well guys I want to aware you about the fact that the camera is so beautiful...... The 8MP front shooter gives more than beautiful selfiess and the 13MP back camera is amazing too.. I dont understand why the mobile reviewers at youtube etc are claiming OPX camera to be bad... That's wrong... The camera is amazingggggg......
4|awesome phone.don't wanna bore u with all the details..in all it is a very good phone and to say, better than the nexus 5x.used both of them but except the fingerprint scanner opx is much much better than nexus.so just trust one plus and buy the phone. and if anyone needs the invite..contact me on my mail.sjaskaran749@gmail.com.and don't worry m givin it for free,not like others.
5|Superb Build quality that makes oneplus X to the whole new level. I already own a oneplus one but i loved the build quality of oneplus x. oxygen OS honestly needs improvement in terms of UI & CUSTOMIZATION. Other than that the mobile looks cool with its top natch spec for its price. go for oneplus X for its reasonable price. Hats off Oneplus. thumbs up for both oneplus x & oneplus one
3|Product build quality is good. Display is fine, but phone hardware is outdated. Even after coupling with 3gb of Ram phone heats and hangs. Heating is sewere. Camera quality is not upto the mark. Mi4i has a batter camera sensor. You can get a betfer camera phone under 12k. Phone's surface is slippery.. I bought it , but this product was not upto my satisfaction level.So i returned it.
5|this is amazing experience to use this beauty this is relay a stunning phone with good features and superb os running and i love the camera clarity in this device and the device is handy and about the screen its awesome no words to express but one thing it should have been a water proof thats what made me go down but leaving that its a superb and good phone for 17k. i am happy....#
4|Its a good phone to buy. Camera is awesum, performance is non stop. The only thing it is lacking is internal storage. I have to use memory card for this and then can't use my second sim, else this fon desere a 5 star. If you need big storage and dul sim usage then this is not for you. If not then don't have even second thought to buy it in term of other specs...
3|I have got this mobile exactly 15 hrs which i have ordered. *Review (update) after 1 week of use. Pros: 1.Design(awesome) 2.Display(superb) 3.Fast(gaming n browsing) Cons: 1.Camera (average) 2.battery(poor ) 3.Worst UI (Oxygen OS) 4.Heating issues (playing games) Mi4i is comparatively best than the One plus X.
2|The product is good, but Not satisfied as per description given from my personal view. on just 2nd day I forgot to charge and the battery gone empty and in morning when I was trying to charge nothing was happening, then I went through forums for the same ppl said to keep untouched for 6hrs some said for 12hrs then charge for 1 hour... what is this shitt for a brand new phone?
5|One of the Best Phones at the price. Its Smooth Sleek and very Simple. The best part about the phone is the fact its Simple Design which is very effective and elegant. Ordered my phone late night got an Early Morning Delivery. Love the packing and also the smoothness that is missed in a normal Android Phone. Still i am using it for the second day but. I am actually loving its
2|I was s I curious about this phone and I purchased it .as per looks and performance the phone is too good. But I noticed whenever I am using the camera the phone is heating too much.really too much. Someboby told me it will reduced time by time.but I could not take risk.so I returned the phone.the returning time is 10 days from the purchase date it should me 30days like Flipkart.
4|I am using this mobile since 2 weeks.As of now I have not faced any big issues.The few bugs I faced was it gets heated up when you are continuously playing game for half an hour(as usual for any mobile) and not able to move apps to SD card.(This will solve in next update as mentioned by one plus). I am giving my invite. IN7D-D3AA-742E-E57D (Valid for 3 days).
1|Great phone with a terrible battery life.regret buying it.
5|Great product no doubt. It truly is worth every penny, a great UI and the weightless design is simply awesome. A pretty great camera too, clicked very clear images even in dim lights. The battery drains a little quickly so need to be a bit of a miser with the usage on the whole a great phone. Thanks Amazon for a great delivery experience and making it available to us.
4|Hi, it's good mobile for this price.. But one issue is while walking or traveling by listening FM stations lot of background disturbances is coming.. But if I stand one place n listen FM radio it's working fine... If I use my other mobile while waking That is coming with clarity.. . I think this is the frequency catching issue on this mobile.. So please look into this issue..
5|Look & Spec are awesome. Front Camera is too good for selfie.. Rear Camera ok.. Battery not upto the mark for a mobile pricing 17000Rs/. Less than a day battery backup. Weight=Featherlite Comes with premium screen protector and transparent back cover, reducing the further cost. No other accessories not even headphone.
5|Great phone with specs of a 2014 flagship. Oneplus X stands out in its budget because of its great build quality, display and great camera. Sd801 is still more than enough for majority of the users. It handles everything like a charm. The display on Oneplus X outperforms a lot of phones that costs almost double of it like iPhone 6s, HTC one m9, nexus 5x etc. Another area where it shines is build quality. I feels as good as any other flagship in the world. Sometimes it reminds me the Z lineup of sony but in a good way. Get this phone as soon as you can. Don't have second thoughts. It is the best in its budget.
5|I must say this is master stroke from oneplus.using single quad core instead of cheap hex core. May be the price is cheap but it has not a single which looks cheap.sexy look.top build quality. Awesome hardware.I just miss finger print scanner well which I can survive. In 17k you can't get anything better. And yes screen that amoled screen looks way better than OPT and OP1.its compact which suits your jeans or trousers pocket . Performance is top notch ,played super nova gta San. And batman blackgate.they all are running smooth with nice color contrast Buy it if have low budget but want 30k phone .
5|Such a beautiful phone. The prettiest phone in this price bracket. Pros: sceen,performance,sound,build,slim -factor,looks,flaunting-factor,call quality,camera etc. P.s: almost everything. Cons: battery to an extent (not properly a con) Bugs and glitches in the software which coukd be fixed with future updates. Great buy for 17k bucks must go fr it.!!
3|I like the size of the phone and the speed. The US is okay. The camera is fine but when you take videos they are hazy. Also when you use applications like snap chat it is not compatible. It does not allow you to send the image or video selected. I love the charging speed though. I like the phone but not completely satisfied. I am thinking of going for Moto X play instead.
5|Amazing product by oneplus, exceptional quality and features are even better. I had bricked my nexus before purchasing Oneplus X, after using Oneplus X i feel i no more need nexus. If you are a stock android lover and like little bit of tweaks then this is the phone to buy. amazing functionalities at exceptionally low price......Cant ask more. The phone has crisp sound too.
2|Just bought this one last week. But not completely satisfied. This phone isnt worth spending Rs 17,000. It lacks on many things especially on software features. Camera features are pretty ordinary. If you are using dual SIM, then no option of expanding and inbuilt is limited to 16GB. There are other phones which are much better than this one at lower price. Not recommended.
1|Waste of money Pls don't bye it !!!! No technical support from one plus lots of oxygen software isuues
1|Very very heavy heat problem to this mobile increasing hevy heat to while useing this mobile
5|I was initially carried away by the way it was marketed and fell into the trap of having a liking for it. But as I started using it, I started to love this phone. The camera is extremely good. The build quality is awesome. There are small flaws in OS in some part. And in low light camera is not very effective. But this phone is definitely worth the price. Go for it!!
3|First time user of one plus. Really impressed of the touch pad action. The on-off button is placed at a inconvenient place on the side where normally one holds the unit, resulting in unit being switched off. Volume control button and this button could have been changed places.Accessing the ad card should have been more simple. Music player should be more user friendly.
3|Having few issues with the phone 1) while pressing back press key it doesn't allow to come back smoothly. you have to click double. 2) while doing data transfer its a task while sending multipal media through Bluetooth it doesn't allow to send at a time. 3) was very existed for camera but after clicking pictures found that picture quality is not that clear
5|Awesome phone.. Loved everything about it. Pros: Design is just wow Display is crip and sharp Camera is very good at daylight 3gb ram helps in multitasking and it did not lag so far. Battery back up was better than expected, it is may be bcz of dark mode and AMOLED display :) The only con: hybrid sim slot. Verdict : Definitely worth 17k! Go for it! You will not regret.
1|Please don't buy this phone , Bad Battery , morning it was 90 % at 2 PM 30 % only minimal use with 2 G data on , no Games, only checked all apps for 2 hrs :( Don't Buy plz ..
5|For 17K, you can't ask a better handset than One Plus X..it's just been a day since I've had and so far I am glad to make this purchase. Handset is pretty light weight and fast as well. Just hoping this gets an upgrade from 5.1.1 to latest android version. BTW, i do have a couple of invites that's valid till tomorrow. If you need one, reach out to me on dyesem@yahoo.com
4|Don't buy this phone IF : * You pair every device using NFC and do payments only through Android Wallet. OPX lacks NFC * You are a camera freak, you want to buy the best camera phone in this price segment. OPX has a decently okay camera. * You bought an expensive 5Ghz capable WiFi router. OPX doesn't support 5Ghz WiFi thingy. * You are in/travel to US too often & need 4G. OPX lack of 12 & 17 bands * Five inches don't satisfy you Now that I have cleared this, let me tell you what's great about OPX * Stunning looks, lightweight, feels comfortable in hand, no settlement in design here. * The screen is beautiful 1080p 5" AMOLED (latest gen). Something you'll only find in expensive phones * OnePlus is prioritizing updates and features for OPX, so expect good support. * OxygenOS is based on 5.1.1 but already has majority of 6.0 features [Delete screenshot from notification bar, reorganize quick settings options, Google Now launcher adds more 6.0 UI features]. * Though it lacks Doze from 6.0 (coming to OPX in '16 Q1), the battery is superb the way it is right now thanks to AMOLED and dark themes. 10-14hrs on moderate-heavy usage, 4-5hr SOT. * Performance is fluid, 801 is really experienced processor from last year and does everything pretty well. * Gaming performance is bit average in some games (mainly Asphalt @ High), expect it to improve with future updates as other games don't suffer lags at all. * Comes with a screen guard applied perfectly and silicone case, you'd still buy this for a 15k phone and end up with similar price. * Doesn't get hot in daily usage at all, gaming takes it near 45 deg C though. * The mono speaker is loud and clear, no complaints. Hope my review helps you decide better :)
5|Oneplus x is the best phone that i have been using. Its finish makes it a class apart. The looks and the touch and the display along with 3gb ram makes it an worthy purchase. The phone does heat up some times when games are played continuously for a long period of time. But the games do not lag and the oxygen os is good. Many apps have to be downloaded as the makers have not provided Certain apps by default. This lets the user with the option to ultilize the 16gb memory provided on the phone as per their wish. I am satisfied with the purchase and i would recommend others trying to make a decision.
1|I am owning a one plus x i hav selected the "ask me first option" in call settings but while calling some contacts it should ask first from which sim to call but instead it calls from sim 1 and some times it does ask about the calling option from sims. It is been a while I am facing a lot of problem because of this issue.Fix this problem as soon as possible!!!!
5|i am seriously loving this handset! i bought it for my girlfriend and she is in love with the phone more then me now! :P the feel of the handset is awesome! front camera is stunning but i am not convinced with the rear/main camera! i am expecting good performance and life from the battery of ONE PLUS X, all over I'd like to say that i love the phone its amazing anyhow!
3|OnePlus X (Onyx, 16GB) - Invite Only When I first got the product, I was amazed with the look and was very happy with my decision. But after few days of usage I felt the battery drains too quickly. It would have been better with a battery above 3000 mAh. If you are a power user then you will definitely need to charge the phone twice a day.
4|one star less because description was not proper about dual sime I thought it has 2sim but later I realised that I have to sacrifice Sd card to use 2nd sim or sacrifice 2nd sim to Use Sd card. otherwise built quality was too gud OS experience was good (there are some bugs but will get clear in next update) hopefully. I would recommend this phone in below 20,000 budget.
5|Super!! Mobile for the budget Pros : - Design is good, and feels weightless in hand - Metal and glass makes it premium feel in hand - primary cam is great with fast auto focus, - front cam for selfies is super!! Cons : - battery backup is fine - graphics while scrolling is not smooth. These can be fixed with software updates
1|problem with ussd i cant cheek my balance it teak 0 to 100 charge 4 hours getting heat and battery getting dry
4|If you were a MOTO G 1st fan then this phone is for you. Pros : Very handy. Nice look and display. Gesture support. In box kit for back cover and lamination. Cons : Average battery. Sim support logic is bad. Gets a little heated up. Price should have been 14k as it is without finger touch sensor. Giving an invite at reasonable rate.email is beta.house257@gmail.com
4|Cant compete with the flagship phones, but this is a good phone for the price. I previously owned Nexus 4 and OnePlus X was a pretty good upgrade in comparison. Camera performance is great and battery backup is good too. Experienced hang issues few times (within 2 months) and one way audio issue when switching from speaker to handset, which does not occur regularly.
3|Cheap camera quality. The claimed 13 MP camera is nothing but a big lie. My 5 MP camera on Samsung is better. The device heats up after 10 minutes of usage. The looks and screen quality and appearance is AMAZING. You'll fall in love with the phone the moment you'll see it. But, the camera and heating issue is something onePlus must improve in this product.
4|After replacement my mobile is working fine, it's battery is lasting throughout the day with some hours of net usage, front camera is best camera you can get but primary camera is not good, but the thing i am giving it four star because it's heating problem and its internal functions which are not so good, but otherwise this is best mobile you can get at this prize
5|Am very satisfied with this new product from the oneplus. The build quality, cellular reception, camera are good in the price segment. The feel in the hand is satisfactory, got to be careful as it is very slippery. If oneplus launches a tempered glass, it would be so nice. The battery would last less than a day, (8 hours), but that's okay fr a moderate user.
4|Pros, Processing power. Selfie camera. Display. OS. Frequent system updates. Look. Cons, Main camera is not as good as you would expect from 13 MP camera. File manager software from oneplus is worst also camera software doesn't have many options. Delicate back glass panel, if dropped once it could break easily
5|Want to buy a Indian invite of one plus X contact me at Jibaabla@rediffmail.com Or what's app me at 9229443325
4|The mobile was excellent but I had to return it caz it had a fault! It would respond abnormal like having wrong touch response when connected to a charger! So had to return it!
5|The delivery of the product was faster than expected And of course the quality mentioned is what you get
2|After usage of 2 months I see multiple issues with screen wakeup. The screen unlock is super slow, phone usually hangs while unlocking.. although once it's unlocked the usage is better, but it's quite irritating to wait for 10 seconds (Yes! 10 Seconds!!) just to check if you have notifications or not! Not satisfied. The phone looks beautiful though!
2|Opx..maybe one among the best phone look-wise btw only LOOK-WISE..once you use it,the 3Gb eats all the 2525mAh(less than 7hrs)..tried rebooting-clearing catch memory...no noticeable difference..rest is fine;) So if you're ready to roam with power'bank then it's go-green Have to mention *despite heavy weather conditions AMAZON made it reach a day before(5/5)
5|This phone has all the right features to make it one of the best affordable smart phones on the market right now. There was absolutely no lag in performance even when multiple apps were opened together and battery lasted for a good 24 hours even on 3G network. Definitely recommend for anyone looking for a high performance smart phone under Rs. 20,000
5|A very good product at a very affordable price. The specs are too good at this price range, camera quality is good, oxygen os seems pretty fascinating. No lag while playing HD games and smooth swipe features. Lives upto the expectation.Battery life is also good as per other smart phone standards. I will give a thumbs up for any one who is planning on buying it.
4|One plus X feels great in hand as well as in looks. Performance is very good. FM radio is there. Phone comes with prefixed screen guard and a back silicon cover. Display is brilliant. 4G works well. Cons- Battery needs charging by end of day Heating issues All on all, positives outweigh negatives by mammoth times. Do go for it.
4|Cool looking, sleek. Haven't started using it yet but looking forward to it. The only issue I faced on the very first day is that (perhaps owing to a customised Android version) sometimes the keyboard hides the very text field where I'm supposed to write. That is annoying. Will keep updating this review as I learn more about this product.
5|Hello guys, If u want to have this phone then certainly u require an invite and I have only 1 remaining... If u want that invite, First subscribe this channel https://m.youtube.com/#/channel/UCeQa4mEy_3_rCed55esK0gg And then write to me at arshadeel665@gmail.com Hurry, only 24 hours left for invite to expire !!!
4|It's been a week since I bought this product, under 20k you should surely go for this product because at such price it offers you such a good quality camera,I can't tell you about battery because didn't use it much.But one thing to mention it offers you 5inch which is really comfortable and the looks you will go crazy it really looks slim and is light weight.
3|Not worth the price I have ordered it and returned it its better to go with one plus one as software is premature every 2 days a new update certain apps and game hangs a lot
4|Much has been written about the phone. Attention to be drawn to the fact that Gujarati & Punjabi language is not supported, meaning thereby, you can not even read Gujarati or Punjabi. One has to root the phone for same, which i personally dislike. OP please provide support for Gujarati sooner. Barring that could not find other issues with the phone.
1|Good but some problem with side buttons and design gives the feel of compromised device from all the side and hardware strengh give the feeling of offloaded device with old processor and repeated story of old success of 1+ no new innovation disappointed after comparing it with my one plus one. Thanks 1+ for good effort but missed this time .... Never settle
5|Smooth touch, fast response and superb look . and built .. All the features of OPO.. Bright screen. Vivid colors and good battery life.... One problem though it's on oxygen.os not cyanogenmod.. But it's not that big problem for regular users.. And headphones not included but screen guard and back cover is there in box that's a good thing...
2|Bluetooth is not getting connected for playing music or radio for youtube,There is no option to select the bluetooth in youtube . There is no gallery to see clicked photoes. Display is good .sound is good. I am planning to return the phone if bluetooth doesnt play using for videos ,youtube. I did this nicely in xperia z3 with clear sound.
5|Bought the Phone on Nov. 6 and using it since a month and almost a half. Ultra quality looks, superb camera and speaker as well as the screen quality. Had used oneplus one and waited for this and oneplus lived up tp my expectation. Oxygen Os Seems a little bit unfinished but i know oneplus will provide OTA's for the same. A surely a Deal Maker phone for me.
5|Phone is fully loaded with latest features. Only 1 issue I found during charging phone is heating too much.
5|Exceeded all expectations. * great design. Volume & power buttons could be farther apart. People with phone cover on may get confused. * enough ram to never clear your recent apps and still be smooth. * customizability of stock Android. * 5" size is perfect for anyone. * best display ever. * battery lasts you a day easily.
3|Great Phone on paper and also to look and feel at but if the camera is one of your priorities please do not buy it as the camera is shockingly poor for a device which is this good. Of course you can read detailed reviews about other specs which are actually great, but keep in mind the poor camera performance and a few missing features like NFC, 11.a.c etc.
5|This phone is the best phone ever !! So smooth and stylish touch . The graphics are awesome and no heating problem at all ...I played "Asphalt 8: Airborne" and "Modern Combat 5: Blackout" for 4 hours and no heating and hanging at all .. Battery life is quite small but is good enough to rest for two day if you don't play any game.
3|It's very weird to write a review for the phone that I loved but for some damn reason, it just went dead. I'm generally not concerned about keeping phone powered and the phone battery goes to zero almost everyday because of heavy LTE data usage. I believe that has caused the phone to go dead. It never recovered and Amazon came in to save the day by taking it back even though I was 24hrs post the return policy. I'm forced to buy a new phone but I just realized there's no other phone in the same space and I might end up ordering another OnePlus X.
5|the phone is beyond every imagination. the best part of it is the visuals before actually powering on.its built is so aesthetic and strong that you will admire its beauty. the hardware is also more than what anyone similar with my uses will enjoy and more than need. the phones camera is a gem.will update when will go into other settings in few days.
5|Overall The OpX is great as a whole. The display is amoled which is good, The design is excellent, Both front and back is glass and also a back cover.comes.with the packing. The camera quality is.just average. The processing speed is good with three gb of ram. Internal storage is.only 16 gb which is a con. Overall the phone is.good on the aspect of price
4|It is a gud phone user friendly gud camera nice display but I am not too impressed with battery back up....it drains faster than my expectations if somebdy looking for decent battery back then this one is not for them considering this one is a new fone and it has irreplaceable inbuilt battery I wonder how will I manage when it will go slightly older....
4|It says its dual sim and has a microSD slot. But its dual sim or microSD. It has the same slot for second sim and SD card. The box does not contain earphone and its not mentioned anywhere. But overall quality is awesome. Some features are very good like swapping of navigation keys from soft to hard and double tapping options. Overall a good buy for 17k.
3|one plus X has many drawback as far as its OS iis concerned it is need to be updated asap. as a handset it is awesome. nothing can match combination of price and and handset feel. OS need to be updated as early as possible problem in reading the SD card, sms, gallery and so on. once the OS is updated i dont think u can find a better phone in this buget.
5|One Plus X - Slim and Stylish phone with handy 5 inch display. can't get better at this price. Worth buying... Cons: (only for dual sim users) You cannot have a Dual SIM + SD card. Can use either Single SIM + SD card or Dual SIM without SD card Go for it... definitely you will like Excellent delivery, received within 14hrs
3|Need an invite for OnePlus X. INDA-1811-3877-E69D - valid till 6 Dec INF3-CC75-42ED-D7FE - valid till 6 Dec IN65-35AE-2018-56B0 - valid till 6 Dec IN12-13B9-0EDF-D020 - VALID TILL 29th Nov - 6PM INE1-6DAA-7C9C-82DB - VALID TILL 29th Nov - 6PM valid tillNov 26- INDE-8A0C-A5C8-4E54 valid till 21st Nov 10 AM - IN4F-077C-1CB3-7C49 validtill 26nov.
4|A wonderful phone with awesome looks. Wonderful camera both front and back for the price range. 3gb ram and extendable memory card is a plus point. One of the feature that I love is one plus radio... Not many smart phones have this option. Reducing 1 star only because of finger print scanning not available... Overall a must buy phone..!!
4|Good phone at a very reasonal price. Looks 9/10.....very good looking phone and its not at all plastic. Performance 8/10... Games like asphalt run good..... The phone heats up a bit though. Camera 7/10.....not a gr8 camera but gets ur job done... I was previously using s3 and i am comparing oneplus x camera with s3... S3 was much better.
4|The Device is well built. The software is near to stock android but does have some unique customization. - Nothing unique about the device that one has to get it only by an Invite (It seems more of an marketing gimmick). Hardware is fine for what most of us use a mobile for. Not faced any heating issues or network issues. Battery is decent.
2|the product does offers nice features but the Phone does get heated even playing few games, camera is not upto the MARK when clicking photos in LOW light..the colors not very accurate, flash not work flawlessly and images not so sharp as company has mentioned.. I returned the product back..just give a second thought on purchasing the phone.
5|I am having Oneplus two invite code... Anyone wants.... Whats app me on 9773611065. Limited hour validity
4|good product for the price range. looks good, feels good but is a fingerprint smudge magnet, need to constantly wipe the front and back screen. gaming performance is satisfactory with most heavy games like NOVA 3 and Ashphalt 8. Camera on natural lighting is good but the front cam on artificial lighting is not as expected. touch and display are good.
4|Good phone. You can't get such specs in the price of 17 k. But the SD card issue is there. And I hope it gets sorted out in next update as promised. Pros Screen - sharp display No lag time Premium looks Cons SD card issue Headphones not provided Either sdcard or 2 nd sim Invite system
5|5 starts for Premium feel. I bought this just for its flagship looks and screen quality. Edit: I moved on to one plus two because of few drawbacks like buggy OS and battery... A big thanks to amazon return policy!! If you manage to wait for few month for an update... Buy this phone blindly it has superb build quality and one of the best screens....
2|Looks amazing in first look. The design and feel is awesome but started feeling the heat (literally) immediately after I connected to my PC. The top portion started heating with in few minutes of charging through USB. When I plugged into the power port the entire phone was hot. The metal in the edges was so hot that you cant hold on to it for few seconds. They gave a free cover to literally coverup the heat issue. The camera was not up to the expectation. My old Moto G was way better in picture quality (not referring to mega pixels).
5|Invite Needed. Please help me !
4|The service center B2X is the worst service provider as far as I know. I have a Moto X, and B2X has damaged my phone while working on it for a hardware issue. I had to take the phone to service center 3 times to fix 1 problem and to be honest, the problem is still not fixed. I would like to buy OnePlus X if you have any other service center in Pune.
5|I must say, in the true fact, this device is a real beast. If you want to pursue a phone with immaculate features & specs... I suggest to GO for it.. Elegant look and dimensions.. Flawless Performance.. HATS OFF to OnePlus.. Keep Going.. KUDOS Anyone interested can contact me for OnePlus X Invite.. WhatsApp on +918382867424
3|A good one but not a great one. My expectations were higher from one plus. I am little bit disappointed.
1|Everything is awesome except 2 Major issues which will make this phone horrible .Battery drains out very fast though you are a moderate to low user .God save the Gamers .No separate SD card slot .If One Plus can fix these ,no body can beat this phone in this segment.Felt really bad to return the product. Experience with Amazon is excellent as usual
5|Amazing Phone !! Had absolutely no issues had this Phone for more than 1 and half months... Had literally no problems It doesn't lag Oxygen OS , SD 801 ,3 GB ram and Dark Theme ....KILLER!! B| B| If you want a amazing phone less than 20K...Then this is the phone for you!! One Plus is Amazing!! Peace :D
5|Phone is great and fast too I ordered on 7 and got the delivery on 8th. Great camera front and rear both. Sound not so great.difficult to put in your favourite ringtone. Very Strange, phone was without headphones,some heating problems and apps cannot be moved to SD card. U can use either 1sim card and memory card of 2sim cards and no memory card.
1|Headphone connectivity appears to be problem. Tried 3-4 different headphones which are fine with other mobiles. Low volume n sometimes peer cannot hear my voice
3|Good phone at the price point pros: Excellent Design, very stylish phone, slim & light weight, Amazing Display quality, Good Cellular reception & call quality cons: very average battery life, very slippery mobile & finger print magnet, cast screen to TV is not stable, camera is just average, oxygen OS interface is also just average.
4|Only flaw for this phone is battery life... I hope Marshmallow update will help increase the battery life. CAMERA is also decent but not great. PERFORMANCE is brilliant. Heats up only when u update & sometimes while charging. Update can fix a lot of issues & minor bug of SD card not showing up in storage but u can access the files on SD card.
4|Oneplus doesn't provide ear-phone which i am not satisfied. Overall product is superb with all specs.
5|Stunning looks and design... Amoled Screen makes it vibrant. Unbelievable performance. Optimised OS. Battery life is comparatively higher. Only con is optional sim/mem card.. Although Snapdragon 801 is outdated but it is fully optimised with 3GB ram to perform without a single lag. Great great great product.. All should consider buying this..
1|Phone gets abnormaly hot in normal usage and battery backup is worst. Now I understand that why one plus underclock cpu clock speed from 2.5 ghz to 2.3 ghz.
4|Very nice phone in terms of looks and performance. Camera quality beats the market 40k+ phones. Only one issue observed since now, it occasionally hang for few secs while unlocking it otherwise never had such issue while using multiple applications. Overall it's a very impressive phone, value for money and I'm having a very good experience.
4|i just booked this in first sight.....having some more invites...which i want to share...if ny 1 intrested just mail me @ nishant.jec@gmail.com recieved my 1+x...evry 1 is telling ultimate...evrything id different with others....but its box not contain headset.. have some invite.. if ny 1 is interested just contact me at abv mail..
5|I'm happy with the initial experience. High quality display, good for movies. Phone is quick and very responsive to touches. Battery life is decent. While I had gps, 3g and WiFi on, installing all my apps from play store, signing in, etc. The battery lasted close to 15 hours. I believe it would last little more than a day for normal usage.
4|After two days of use, I would like to say that the display is pretty nice, camera is decent, but battery sulks. It continuously drains down throughout. Hardly lasts for a day with medium use. Never expected this from One Plus. I hope they come up with suitable update at the earliest otherwise I will have to carry a powerbank all the time.
1|it was good and design was soo good its curve edge was awesome, but felt too much off cost compared to the features it having. if you think to buy this I prefer you to go for oneplustwo. Very bad camera, when taken pics from 1+x they were good when seen from phone but, when seen through other devices pics were very bad. Defect in camera.
5|I have fallen in love with ONYX... if u are thinking of buying a cell under 20k then just go for ONEPLUS X (ONYX). If someone needs any assistance in buying this piece of beauty then i can help u out with the INVITES as i am having several invites of this phone... u can contact me @ ahmarnezam2010@live.com GO FOR ONYX.... :) :)
5|Awesome phone, I jus got this phone yesterday and this does perform really well just like the looks/
4|Lovely mobile.. Superfast.. Slim and Sexy.. Love to hold in my hands.. Decent camera.. Not getting hanged at all.. Beautiful display.. Just one complaint.. The back side cover is not durable. When it got slipped from my hand and fell onto the floor, the back side cover broke out.. Anyways I will be getting it replaced. Thanks one plus..
4|The design of the phone is what attracts someone the most. On the inside it's almost exactly same as the 1.5 year old Oneplus One. You however do get AMOLED screen and expandable storage. Camera disappoints when light is not adequate, even semi lit indoor shots are not that great. Apart from that, it is a well round package.
5|Woww..... An excellent mobile... If u r thinking with this price money dont think just go for it...
5|If anyone requires invites mail me @raplover.abhinav@gmail. And yeah its free to share happiness :)
5|awsose mobile and very slim,compatible if you want invite pls whats app me on 9844593530
4|Awesome design, looks, fast battery charging ,good front cam, inbuilt pic editor cons: while handle some time screen off because of on/off switch in the middle of right side, rear cam is not up to standard less brightness options.. Till the time I only faced these cons in phone...last opine you can buy not bad option in this range...
5|It is the best phn that 1 can hav so far.. looks r amazing.. its slim too.. prfct handling.. battery also very good.. I've usd it ovr wifi wid some medium usage n aftr 2 days.. the battery level is 50%..highly recommended.. dnt wait jst order.. invite system is also vry simple.. one cn get an invite within 4-5 days aftr registration..
5|The best mobile to gift someone. Every phone has its flaws and this phone also has few but one cannot deny the fact that this phone has much more pros than the flaws. Once you start using it you will know the difference. Looking at the box itself tells you that the phone is going to give serious competition :). Great phone go for it.
5|Great phone in every aspect. Be it display, performance, battery, etc. Only Cons are: 1. No fingerprint sensor. 2. No NFC. 3. Mediocre camera (not good in low lights) 4. No USB-C and No Quick Charge. 5. Ok-Ok battery backup, almost full day. But But But, Who cares for these features for only 17k? :P
2|I bought this mobile two days before it's heating like iron box and camera is not that much good
3|Hardware and build quality is superb, though the onyx is a fingerprint magnet. Camera is awesome in properly lit conditions however low light images are not good. There are still some issues with the software and as a result the phone hangs sometimes. But it should be fine as one plus is regularly rolling out software updates.
4|If you have that phone in hand u can't put it down.. sexy design, lit weight, video quality better than any mob.. front camera luks dull..better luk lot of technology used here.. While in screen lock draw V for torch,o for camera, double touch to open the screen , draw parallel line for opening music player..... itz jus awesome...
4|Got the phone delivered today morning. My initial experience of using the phone is quite satisfactory. Using the device will give you a sense of smoothness that have been achieved by a combination good hardware specs, complimented by improvised android os. It is not a flagship killer, but definitely you get the bang for your bucks.
3|The overall phone experience is good. I bought it for 16999 just 25 days ago and the same is now available on SALE @ 14999 and CASH BACK of 1500 on CITIBANK Cards. So Net @ 13499 Regional Languages are not available I think and that is a minus point. camera is goods but functioning is little complecated.
1|Its better to buy Moto X play instead of Oneplus X. I own Oneplus one and after using X I can say that Oneplus one is much better than X. Though you have a option of Oneplus one instead of moto x play but updates matter a lot! Marshmallow is the last update for oneplus one but Moto x play will recieve updates upto android O.
1|This phone doesn't work.it gets hanged while doing initial setup while trying to connect to wifi.
5|Awesome Phone ... Excellent on time delivery By Amazon. This phone is not just a value for money phone like xiaomi and others but it is something different. Something that will make you feel that this is the best investment you have ever made in a mobile device. Outstanding build quality and performance. Looks quite premium too.
4|Awesome Look_ This phone Look is awesome _ one thing this phone comes with protective cover so no need to buy extra , and cover is also very nice. when you will update the phone then for 1-2 minute phone will heat after no issue . front camera and rear both is good. overall good phone with killer look , must bbuy
4|Hi guys I just received my one plus x device yesterday evening. I feel great after looking at the sexy phone. Built quality is good, Very slim. I should really say thanks to Amazon for the fast delivery... Thanks a lot Amazon.. Try this guys awesome phone.. There is no issues till now, if iI I feel any issues I will get back.
5|Looks a very good phone , better than many premium phones in market , has battery of about 10 to 12 hours if used non stop . Great resolution , good look almost like a iPhone 6 . It's been 3 days and I am very happy with the product . Worth every penny . No competition at this cost . Just buy it blindly u ll not be disappointed
5|I am exceedingly happy with this product. Its basic operation - phone, SMS etc are reliable under all conditions, network is excellent and all additional features - camera, music etc are really good. I not only recommend it to others but would buy another for my family again. Product was delivered within the time promised
4|Pic taken at night is not good at all When flash is on gets a disturbance near flash area Except that phone has got a very powerful camera and battery I have been using nearly 27 days no flaws or errors damn I use 4g it gives a full day charge I'm giving a 4**** for over all and one * for night quality shots
5|Awesome phone, great user experience and most important the build quality looks premium. But there is only one downside of it, as it is glass in rear, it is very prone to finger print and it gets slippery sometime, but the pros way outweigh the cons so i suggest you guys to go for this phone who wants to buy a phone under 20K.
5|Phone is simply outstanding in design and performance. Only thing is needed oxygen update at regular intervals. File manager itself is too backdated. Group messages are sent as MMS if you have not updated the OS. Music player is not having folder play option. RAM cleaning utility is missing. Update for OS graphics is required.
4|Iam happy with my purchase. I have got 3 invites and please let me know if anyone is interested.
4|To start with, Amazon delivery was super awesome and super quick. Got this in 14 hours! 14 friggin' hours! And the product is brilliant too. Sleek and stylish. Also, the touch is amazing. No doubt. Worth it! Cons: There's an external SD card issue going on for which the software upgrade is still awaited.
5|Great phone for the price, initially had SD card and WiFi problems latest update has fixed it. A 32gb option would have been awesome also with the Shared SD/Sim slot since I use a SD card can't use as dual Sim phone, overall camera in low light is OKish and OS option should have been equivalent to Oneplus 2. Product look and feel is awesome, battery last for 18-24 hrs charging takes roughly 4 hrs. Very robust and easy to use phone feels well built and premium.
4|Excellent phone... Has SD card issue but it's a software bug and will be resolved. No heating issues at all. Excellent display and camera is superb at this price range. Camera performance very well in a low light situation Best part for me was that this oneplus has fm and is easy to carry around as it is 5 in
5|Very good phone with great performance in every field. Very much satisfied. Thank you Amazon for the best product. But see that you inform customers about upcoming offers before booking the item, so that people won't regret for booking phone in hurry and then getting disappointed for seeing price reduced by Rs.2000/- or so!
1|When i went to out of city (poor signal area) phone was strucking, and there is no cut copy option in contacts. I am facing Lot of problems with these types of options (lack). But only best thing is phone looking. And there is another limitation, we can insert secondary sim or memory card. Only one thing is exist.
5|If your a kind of person who drops the phone often, i dont recommend this. Because this phone feels fragile and important and mostly very light for its size Ratings Performance-5/5 Looks-5/5 Connectivity-3/5 (No 5Ghz Wifi Support) Gaming-4/5 (Sometime it Lags) Display-5/5 Battery-4/5
4|Fantastic device, cute and design of fits perfectly fine in hands. Crispy screen resolution. Quick processor. One star wars less because of 2 reasons *No finger print scanner * battery should have been more powered. Any one can buy with confidence without second thought. Mail me in case u need an invite kinni.04@gmail.com
5|Great value for the money. Excellent size and specs. Can't go wrong with this feature set. Few minor quibbles - wish it had buttons that lit up, wish it was a bit thicker for a bit longer battery, wish it was updated to M already. These don't detract from the overall value however, hence the 5 stars.
5|After 12 days of Usage... Pros: 1. Looks Awesome... 2. Display Color reproduction and pixel density Excellent... 3. Network Signal, Wifi Signal Very Good. 4. Front Camera very good...Back Camera Average need to Improve Cons: 1. Glass Both side its Finger Magnet 2. Battery not good for heavy users 3. Some games are lag due to os optimization 4. Oxygen OS buggy... 5. Sd Card issue not solved till date
4|Using OPX for last one month. On Day 2 speaker malfunctioned, so immediately rebooted the device. Since then I faced no issues. Device heats while watching videos on YouTube. Call quality : 2/5 Performance : 4/5 Video display : 5/5 Camera Back : 3/5 Camera Front : 4.5/5 Overall rating : 4/5
4|Decent phone,Worth a buy. But no ear phones and backlight on phone back/home buttons.. A small issue the OnePlusDiwali launcher sometimes stops responding for few seconds. Camera is amazing but no light adaptability. Useless to capture photos in dark or at night. Candybar body makes it very comfortable to hold the phone.
5|Please don't decrease its price. this hurt me totally, oneplus x doesn't lower it price range.
5|Awesome phone...one of the best by the oneplus..the onyx material is one of the best thing....
4|I have got a one plus x invite . u can contact me at mayurbansal.om@gmail.com .And its paid...
4|Awesome cell guyzz.... All those who need slim nd cell 5" size it's all in here, u a gaming guy then this is ur phone.... only thing u worry about is battery backup, It lasts a day when charged fully wid all day usage nd 3 to 4 hrs of gaming. If any one need invite- Mail me- harshjain6894@gmail.com
5|Checks every square...working fine...especially the screen is very good...no heating issues...call connectivity is also good...battery is fine enough for one day...do use the cover provided with it(it's not bad btw)....overall satisfied...and big thumb's up to amazon for delivering in 3days under normal delivery scheme.
4|The phone is really awesome for a price under RS 20000 The glass and metal build is a treat to hold. The performance is also awesome. The phone gets a little bit hot when playing games like Asphalt 8. The camera is not upto the level of some phones of the same kind. Amazing delivery by Amazon. The fastest I've ever had.
3|I got this phone 5 days back and eveything looks good like look,speed etc but faicng two weird issues 1.Keys sometime doesnot work while texting as it skips some typed letter.(occurs frequently) 2.Everyday i have to reboot first to activate my 4g mobile data. Does any one facing above issue?
4|sharable free invites. oneplus x: IN36-752B-A7AE-5996 IN51-DCD3-C237-7EAE IN2A-5800-4048-6934
4|Memory card and sim2 shares same slot so can't use both together. This doesn't seems to be a cool idea while most of the phone comes with dual Sim these days and many people use two Sim cards. Otherwise it's a very good phone and I would recommend for others. Speaking of the seller delivery was really fast!
4|I was damn happy to get my OPX in 2days of time. Thanks to amazon... Abt phone... First look of it is impressive... Slimmest phone with awesome screen clarity. Cam clarity is too good. Cons- it doesnt have ear phone in consignment. Gallery option is not available in features. Overall worth buying
3|Not a up to mark fone as previous OnePlus range. Phone gets heated in games or continuous usage of internet. In 4G sim it get heated very fast. Camera doesn't have flasg on camera mode. You need to install third party app for this. Overall average fone and below average performance as its known brand.
4|Got it two days back as of now good as battery been one of the concern for me it has lasted 12 hours with net on, the other talking point being the camera, first of all its a mid range phone and it will pass for the price of its category. And coming to remaining aspects it will work superb. Overall it is a good buy
4|Cheap phone are getting good and good phones are getting cheap. Mark my words it's quite a cost cutting type of a deal but still the phone worth it. Look design performance will take you along but I honestly believe with a mere difference of 1-2K OnePlus 1 is way much better deal. Review Jockey VG
5|This is the best phone till date that i have used and i had some gr8 mobiles in past like htc one m8, note 2. And i can bet it has the best in class amoled screen comparable to note 5 or s6 in just 17k which is unbelievable it has also got the best in business camera which is phenomenal I personally love this device.
2|I purchased this device primarily because I wanted a phone with Dual SIM and enough memory.The product specifications advertised it as a dual sim phone with extendable memory. To my utter horror, I discovered that the second slot can be used either for the second sim or for memory card. Completely disappointed.
4|It would be really great if they have their internal music library and picture gallery, as depending on 3rd party does not feel safe and it may crash sometimes because of compatability issues. And they should give the direct SD card compatibility so that pictures can be automatically back up in SD card.
4|Its overall a good phone look wise as well as performance wise. Overall performance including picture quality is fantastic. Low light condition may disappoint a bit. U may face some slowness when overloaded its memory with lots of multimedia. Also signal receptions is a bit poor compared to equivalent phones..
4|Looks very classy and very slim also.But you cant use it without a case. Performance is very good. Camera is average. Display is excellent. Main problem is with battery. if you are a heavy user it will last only for 6-8 hours only. Oxygen is also not up to the mark.One plus should give a update. I have 3 invites to share .valid till 29-nov.if any one need invite please drop a mail to prayagjayachandran@gmail.com
5|I have always been a huge fan of the Oneplus lineage. Was one of the first buyers of the One after a long wait much before it entered the Indian market. Unfortunately, my One was stolen in a train and now again the X. But my experience of using the phones were great and would recommend this to all.
5|The phone punches way above its weight. It feels premium and works like a charm. Special mention about the excellent full HD amoled screen and the dark theme makes the most of the excellent display. Oxygen OS has a come a long way. There is not much to say given you are getting a lot of phone for a lot less money.
4|I gifted this phone to my French friend Arséne who I met on my trip to London last year and he told me that it was, and I quote, "It is a phone of ze top top qualitee." And in his part of town they like to say Arséne knows and I suppose he really does know. Top top top man. Top top top phone.
5|Elegant design ! feels so good in hands...little slippery but the extra protection cover takes care of that. Superb Performance like all premium phones in the market except for the camera. Camera is not as good as I expected but this price range with all you get is a win win case :) Happy to have this :)
1|Speed is Super Looks is Super Grip is Super Operating System Is Worst because many options missing, top toolbar no button working but you can easily manage using 3rd party software such as truedialer, and gosms any experienced in android its good new to android its a nightmare in an operating system without working switches/Buttons Sorry for Giving less stars so you Company can View my review and do Needfull
1|I have bought one pylis 2 and it has tones of software defects.. I am sure those defects must be in one plus X also... Just tryong help all new buyers.. Check the phone and make sure everything is up to u r expectations or return it. Otherwise u will have to leave with ot as I am with one plus two..
4|Great phone..excellent display, it's a 5 inch amoled display You get great performance from this device The camera and battery life can be better Else no problem with it Don't go with other Chinese companies as their phones don't last much With this you get a feeling of premium materials
4|One of the gorgeous phones out there Pros: 1.Sexy looks 2.oxygen os buttery smooth 3.perfect size 4.multitasking (3 gugs of ram) 5.browsing and light gaming 6.front cam 7.Battery life Con 1.not quite smooth in highend games 2.mediocre rear cam 3.heating
5|I ordered one plus x on Nov 5th. Amazon delivered the mobile on Nov 7th. Good service by amazon. I was searching for mobile case in sites, but no luck, to my surprise, got silicon case along with the box. Battery is okay, i used the mobile last day fully,. It was good. Touch is smooth. Worth buying!
5|I am using oneplus x from 2 weeks...its a best looking premium phone....combination of metal and glass is killer....it is powerful as well...it has highend snapdragon 801 processor wid 3gb ram thats gr8 its a beast....gr8 camera rear and front, gr8 battery and excellent amoled display....its best phone under 20k
5|Using this amazing piece of technology and craft almost for a week and must say it truly is a game changer. Battery support is also good enough. No heating issues with my handset. Comes with an insanely awesome charger. Surfing and playing games is a real fun. 1+ has nailed it. Feel lucky if u get this one.
4|Delivery within 2days its great experience. Try the one plus x its awm.musch better then any smart ph all of the categories,this range. Accept battary back up,But its compromise for the other features. Iooking 6 out of 5. Working 5 out of 5. As a User 5 out of 5. Battery 5 out of 4.
3|many issues with camera software 1) no option to turn on flash. 2) camera quality low for indoor pics - even in day light. 3) No option to save the clicked pics to SD card 4) issue with apps not getting transferred to SD card. 5) Finger print issue - its definatelya finger print magnet
2|Phone is very good...but it has a software problem the contacts do not come in sorted order..and many more..if the problem is resolved go for it.. And one thing more..service centre support is not at all good when i had this phone i called them for problem they dont know anything...customer call centre is good.
5|Its a good phone, but lacks a good screen protector and other accesories. At this price its a good phone. Havent dropped it yet so dont know how resilient it is. Have been using it for 1 month. No trouble. But it is a finger print magnet. Unrecognizable after 1 hr of holding in hand without cover or protector.
4|Bought it for a friend, absolutely loved it. The phone looks classy and since it's running Oxygen OS, it's as good as vanilla android. The phone has a premium feel to it. I have 1 less star because of the battery capacity and the processor. But for the price it's still an excellent specs and a very good phone.
5|An awesome phone at a fantastic price point. Build quality is sturdy but still light and sleek. I moved from a 5.5inch screen to the OPX at 5 inches and the transition has been smooth w/o any friction. The phone comes with a screen guard + case so you don't need to invest in any further accessories.
5|Awesome But battery could be better And when will marshmallow update will arrive
2|Phone gets heates just after playing 2 3 videos orr songs for 15-20 mins ....i returned it
5|I have an extra invite. If some one Need invite Plz drop your msg on what's app 9021303222
5|Ordered the phone after hearing a lot about the much hyped phone. And not to repent that I made a good choice. Most of the reviews didn't mention much about any glitches in the software, but after using the phone for nearly a week - I feel immensely happy for making such a choice. The UI is absolutely brilliant. Camera is awesome. Processor speed is great. And the display quality made me fall for it. Loving using this phone.
3|This device is very good in all expects. The only big problem is it's battery. I have to charge it 3-4 times a day. Also it heats up on heavy usage. There is a gesture for screen ON but I think 1+ forgot for screen OFF gesture. Well I'm ending my review because all other things r of premium quality.
5|Just purchased...and definitely its all about the reviews.. Well designed.. And well treated.. Fabulous display..handy with one hand..camera I think should be more better as it has 13 mp the images occupy only 1-2 Mb.overall according to myself one who want to buy a gadget under 20k must consider one plus x.
4|After using almost 10 days i can tell that phone is overall very good, but only problem is battery it should be 3000 mah or more so that we have enough juice for whole day without charging it again... Guys if any one want the invite i can share it wid u free of cost...email me on... meatulin09@gmail.com
4|Overall good.. Good in look...in performance just one issue while surfing, watching video and during charging it heat's up like anything, u can feel like heating machine. We know winters is going on but certainly don't want this kind of warmth. Can ONE PLUS resolve this issue.. Need help.
1|This is Genuine Review, I brought this after reading 1000 s of reviews. Now on ground reality what I dont like about this are- 1, Verry Poor Battry life, in 17 k one should get above avg battery , if somebody knows fix comment here 2, High Heating Issue while connecting with Wifi, Playing games on wifi 3,Not fulfilling Price Tag 4, Small display size Pros about this every body knows Conclusion-What some body can do with ths awesome specs if he dosent have enough battery to do that or How can one play game or surf net with hot dog heating up in Hand..
1|Nothing against Amazon. just that the product is defective. On standby mode, on a full charge, the battery lasted mere 08 hrs!! fully charged phone, kept by the bedside during night was fully drained out by the morning!! the product was ordered as a gift for my sister, now I am completely red faced and having to go through god knows what procedure to get the item replaced. update did return the product 3 days ago, but till now, no replacement has happened. had flagged the issue more than 6 days ago. no news on replacement or any communication from either amazon or the seller. Extremely poor service.
3|A decent phone with adequate features and specs to get in this budget but the battery could've had been better. 3GB RAM is just "Moh Maya" to make it easy to understand. Your interests won't be compatible with the phone if you're a hardcore browser & gamer because the battery would just depress you.
5|Finally that day comes to an end. What a design u did. Really Iwould like to thank the design team for this sexy phone. I have two concerns with this handset 1) Phone is not connecting to wifi 2) Default camera doesn't have the flash adjustable Apart from this phone is verrrrrrrry good
5|One Plus Latest Mid Range Flagship Phone OneplusX Is the Company's Best Phone At Its Price Factor. Quality Of It Looks Very Premium Good Battery Backup 3GB Of Ram 16GB Inbuilt With Dual Sim Hybrid Card Support And Expandable Upto 128GB. Its Is Full Value For Money Phone, I Order This Phone On 8 Of Nov 2015 And Had Hand's On It 12 Of Nov 2015 Good Delivery Service From AMAZON. Recommend To Buy This Phone On Going Festiv Season.
3|Pros: Great package,comes with tempered glass protector and semi-transparent case envelope, low cost, pretty decent battery life, no lag Cons: Bad camera, bluish screen (not sure if it's because of the tempered glass), can't use dual SIM and SD card at the same time(only one SIM and SD card)
5|The phone attracts with its looks and oveall feel. Sound quality for calls is good and speaker quality for videos is also pretty good and clear. Skype calling is clear. Yes there will be finger print marks as stated in reviews and its a very slippery phone :) just 3 days old for me so i should stop here :)
4|Lightweight. Look-wise awesome. Performance great. Camera brilliant. Cons: Backside slipery... rubbery backcover hepled. O2OS ver.2.1.2 has few bugs... upon contacted 1+ team assued fast updates....CM12 on oneplus one was awesome. Amazon service quick & fast... delivered in Guwahati on third day.
5|its has been feeling like searching for GOD, to manage a invite took almost two days continuous effort, finally i got the priviledge to order the phone. As per the reviews , i did searched a lot and finally made my mind to order it.Eagerly waiting for my Oneplus X. Will write the reviews once i receive it.
5|Pros Awesome looks Brilliant Screen No Bloatware Great Graphic performance in games Good camera Cons Battery life could've been better Internal only 16gb although expandable but inbuilt memory always performs better and looks snappier than SD cards
5|One Plus X is a classy phone . Dont mind the reviews about Battery life .. i can easily go a full day without charging . Yes , you may have to charge it if you play high end games , but who is going to play games all day ! If you care about design and performance this phone wont disappoint you.
2|I wish I could appreciate this product because I spent my hard-earned money on it, but One Plus X is full of hardware and software issues. The biggest one is that the other person suddenly stops hearing whatever I say during a call. Do not go for this, I have suffered a lot within a month of its purchase.
5|Bought the phone for my wife. She loves it. Excellent camera, front and back. Nice metal trim finish around the body. Oxygen OS is good. Wife is happy so can't really complain as she is the primary user. Shame one plus don't provide headphones. The silicone case is good touch. Keeps the phone smudge free.
5|Received the phone on next date of launch 6thnov2015. Full makes to Amazon delivery here. Phone is light bright and glossy. Display is great and amoled lovers will enjoy. OS is fluid. Others yet to be explored. The soft case in the box is a very handy add-on. Else the back is almost a black-mirror..
4|It is the best value for money smartphone. All the features of One plus X are top notch, premium design, great UI, camera, gorgeous screen and a considerable battery to name a few. It's lacks NFC, fingerprint scanner and USB type - C port. The company doesn't provide earphones along with the accessories.
5|Style with power amazing phone at this price.Front camera is superb... Excellent selfies
5|HELLO GYS.. PLEASE GIVE ME INVITE CODE... IF YOU HAVE.. I WANT TO BUY THIS AMAZING PHONE
5|The phone is bang on good. I have a spare invite. Mail me at sudeepanurag23@gmail.com and I may help you in purchasing it.
4|Good phone.....good features... That is y I bought it ...everything satisfied me but while I'm using it more than 20 mins on playing games it gets heated up so abnormally...so much I mean...which makes me to stop playing my fav games wen I wanted to...except this one plus is a must have phone for all...
5|excellent phone in this range using since last 4 days no issues loving it thanks one plus and amazon team for making this Diwali special one. camera both front and back are excellent superb design. 3gb ram phone is extreme quick these phone relay has the x factor great work ONE PLUS TEAM.....
5|The best budget smartphone of the year! Check out our video review here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BYC5mDfPWWQ Check out the unboxing here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wYdce8KmfrY Bottom line, just go for it. Nothing in this price range competes with the One Plus X!
4|Best build Quality, Best Screen, Awesome performance, poor playback on most headphones, can't answer calls from mi headphones, on call quality is good but there are some bugs where the mic goes off n the other called can't hear me, I have to restart my phone to slove this. it happens 3-4 times a month.
5|One of the best phones I have had so far. Awesome looking. Feels good in hand. Light weight. Very good performance. Got the phone delivered within 24 hrs of purchase. Waiting for more customization features on the OxygenOS from OnePlus. Also awaiting other accessories for OnePlus X.
5|I received the mobile today its the best in look and feel felt like i was holding an iphone 6 ..very premium and tested for an hour ..awesome just awesome performance without zero lag ...but i doubt the battery will stay for a full day as it is just 2525 mah but the phone is not at all less comapred to iphone 6 ...iam happy with this ..thank you one plus team and amazon partner for giving us such a wonderful phone
5|After using it for few days I think it's a great phone with really good aesthetics There is no lagging in the phone even with multiple heavy applications open in background Only con I would say would be it gets warm during continued usage while charging which is expected due to glass panel.
4|I received the phone on the 12th of November. Amazing build quality and great handling. A few hours into usage I noticed out of the two speakers in the phone only one of them is working. Is it some manufacturing defect or is that the default mode of speaker function? Please revert back at the earliest
5|Want invite, msg on face book user name shatrughanmsingh Two days 12 hours to go
5|Clearly another winner from the OnePlus stable. Been using it for 5 days and loving it.
5|INEA-7096-3FA2-16EA Good luck with your oneplus x ;-) And yeah, Your welcome.
5|Just superb delivery within 1 day. And Mobile using from 1 month no issue. Slim and sexy. Except the memory card can't be used with 2 sims. Rest all are superb features. Premium looks. Already refered 2 and they have purchased. Guys don't think just go for it. I have invitation . telle me if u want.
2|I didn't expect heating issue with such a brand. The design and features was one of its class but I'm not buying a test piece rather a new phone where I expect these problems to be addressed earlier. I returned the product within a week and got full amount refunded. Thanks to Amazon's return policy.
2|Hi All ! I'M facing the USSD issue with my newly bough airtel 4G nano sim. No automatic alerts after SMS, Call and when internet connectivity turned off. This is so annoying that I am unable to check the balance regularly. Please make a note its OnePlusX Oxygen OS issue yet not resolved. One more issue of Oxygen OS.. it doesn't support all regional fonts such as Gujarati...so users will not be able to read in Gujarati on Oneplus X
5|a great phone....the only down side if any is the battery backup and no dual band wifi
4|The phone is amazing but the main so gallery is missing. I just don't know what to do.
4|Till now no issues whatsoever!! Just that its slippery af but for that I got a case so not a deal breaker for me, happy with the device camera is more than average low light images r bad but selfie's cone out great, no overheating the os is running smoothly not a single crash till now. Rocking
4|generally a good phone, 3 gb ram. looks great. comes with near stock android and very fast. some cons are medium battery life, second sim or sd card only, screen colors are very rich and full, feels more coloured than the original despite 3 gb ram, sometimes games loose frames.
5|Beautiful phone with pretty decent specs. Value for money..good audio and call quality...decent gaming performance Heats a lot less as compared to other phones. Yeah has some minor bugs and glitches but hope to get all these solved by future software updates. Go For It!!
4|Nice phone.. Look- Awesome. Processor-Awesome Camera- 13mp, not Awesome but Excellent Clearity- Awesome Sound- Above Average. Battery-2525mah, but found very good after using last 2 days. Excellent at this Rate. One can go for it. Invites code-IN09- D069-A41C-C6E5 , Claim with in next 30 Hours.
5|OnePlusX in white is a stunning little device for 17000 INR. Just hold it in hand and you can feel the premium nature of this phone. For more check out this OnePlusX unboxing video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9rgn-S6d268 and also the full review https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ckgD0AUxfG0
5|best phone in mid range with snapdragon 801 better than oneplus one .. i have two invites left too one for one plus x and one for one plus two anyone can take them for just around 500 each... call or text at 9999114556 or whatsapp at 8468870848 .. one plus x invite expires in 2 days..
3|Mobile is pretty good except battery and camera. The battery wont last you for one day. If you use Wifi all the time, it will last u for half of he day.If you want to use it for daily general(calls n sms) usage then it will depends on your level of usage. But dont expect for a complete day.:-)
3|Not a very good phone. Pros: No lag.. quite fast response.. heavy games can be easily played.. Cons: Excessive heating issue. Battery not upto the mark.. low performance.. At this price battery could have been more supportive. Android configuration is not very good. Lot of features missing if compared to other phones. Random software issues also being faced.
4|Grab the opportunity friends use invite code within 3 days: IN9E-8F9E-77E7-3AC6
5|great device very premium check out the review video : https://youtu.be/eBucgLQxmps
5|Superb phone! Great screen! Killer looks! But be sure not to over-use the phone by doing unnecessary things as because its a glass body and can heat up very quickly and you might be unable to use it..!!! If you use the phone too much and find it needy then i suggest you to go for OnePlus Two.
5|I am a apple iPhone fan. but this phone OnePlus X impress me. Excellent Phone. Very good and comfortable 5" OLED display. value for money little bit slower as this has 2.3ghz processors. 32bit platform is disappointed. Both camera is good and quality photo's.
2|Can anyone please help.Today i got my phone and through out 4 hours of my continuous usage i was so happy with the performance. But after i updated the OS version i am noticing a signal variation in my mobile. I am using Airtel and it has good reception in my area always and in my all phones.
5|OMG what a phone.....!!!
5|I am in aww of this phone. This looks far better than the actual picture. The specs are amazing, the touch screen interface is superb. This is the best phone hands down in this range. I used a Moto X earlier and this is way better than the X and even the new Play. Kudos One Plus and Amazon.
5|The one plus x which i got is the best smartphone in this price range, and i get the delivery on time and m very happy with Amazon service who ever is thinking of buying this phone just don't wait for u have to go for it u will feel like u r handling a more gorgeous phone than iIphone.....
4|Good phone for the price 17k. But huge software improvements needed in rear camera quality. Gaming experuence is good.better purchase accessarues like tempered glass and solid backcover fir the phone while ordering phone itself as thus phone is as fragile as glass. Good servicre from amazon
3|when pattern lock is activated it takes some time to respond. It also has a heating problem, when the phone is in charge and you fiddle a bit u can feel the heat. Apart from above mentioned points the phone is a killer. Hope the issues will be rectified with upcoming updates.
4|Device is amazing. It have really reach look. OnePlus X added lots of extra functionality in oxygen os. - Very Slim - Great Sound quality - It support 4G Network in India - Camera quality is nice - Value for money. Thanks for this great product OnePlus X.
4|Awesome phone I ever bought in this price range crispy display colours pop out like a quad HD display and camera performs well but the only flaw is the packing .The packing is not well packed like we get in flipkart or in amazon for other products else the phone excels well sry damn perfect
5|For invite of one plus x contact Nishant wats Email id-nishantnw9999@gmail.com
4|Decent mid range phone with good camera. Night selfies are bit of a problem though.
5|wonderful Buying experience at amozon and superb product OnePlus X from oneplus....
5|Stunned by the outer looks of this phone. Mesmerized by the performance and working as well. Worth spending 15k bucks for this one. Can't get anything better than this in this pocket range. Just wonder how the Service part of this, would be, because all it is which counts later.
4|No scene settings, Recording and picture editor. Otherwise excellent smartphone and outclasses Sony or Samsung ! Above features will take it on top Class position. If you can update the software it will be very thankful. --- Suresh Lagvankar,Pune Mob: 8605017080
3|Can anybody tell me is there any problem with phone's speaker actually in my phonr only one speaker is working. Although I bought this one plus x few days back, Its a gud worth for money n this time I am happy with amazon delivery. But kindly some body help me out with this speaker problem
5|Since phone is new it bond to be fast. But focusing is fast. Just like a very premium mobile. N the phone heats up a lot. Especially while charging. Like a oven. Both cameras are very very good. When u zoom it clarity is very less. Coz phone is very slippery..
5|superb dislpay ever having 5inch amoled display with 441ppi is really superb no lag at all with superb user interferance only one drawback is there which is battery except this the phone is worthy with the full premium lookOnePlus X (Onyx, 16GB) - Invite Only
5|Save money by doing this I saved doing this and got cashback which is transferable to bank account Signup Directly using this link and follow the steps http://cashkaro.com/r=527673 I got this three months ago and I transferred this money to bank account its true
5|EXCELLENT......Its A MASTER Peace Its Look Powerful Stylish And Glow Camera Front&back Impressive Especially Slow Motion Software Also Good Nice Touch Access Battery Good Finally DISPLAY MIND-BLOWING SMOOTH-FASTER LOVED LOVING I SUGGEST EVERY ONE......!
4|great phone for this price. not sure if the front glass is really gorilla glass 3 as there are so many tiny scratches already, despite utmost careful handling. otherwise build quality is so good that i just cant get myself to spend 40k or 50k for a similar looking 'branded' product again.
3|i think other then camera its a masterpiece....but camera is not just ok its below par.evan after a new os update.& yes this bulls*** has no option to choose a default outgoing sim... Every time you make a call you need to select a sim option... Os has lot of bugs here... Op x team Socks.
4|A very good phone for the price. Excellent design and build quality, looks like iPhone 4s. Screen quality is awesome. Camera could have been better. Speaker is great. Battery life is good. Gets me through the whole day with little Internet usage and light gaming and video Watching.
5|Received it 3 days ago, performance is fine. If anyone need an invite can contact.
5|Service from Amazon was very fast. Phone built looks sleek, light weight and good.
1|The phone has 2 speakers on the bottom of the phone out of which only one speaker is working. I had ordered the phone during the sale where I could book without the invite, even though I had an invite. I feel cheated where in they are selling defected products! Didn't expect this.
4|First, thanks to Amazon for its on time one day delivery. Oneplus packed this phone in a very stylish way. Definitely an eye catching design. Works super fast. Should've included NFC and additional slot for SIM/SD card instead of sharing one for both. Also, a severe fingerprint magnet.
5|I won't mention the pros and cons already mentioned. Just one or two things, you'll fall in love with the device as soon as you take it in your hands. Secondly, if you use it with clean hands, fingerprints won't me that much a problem. Rest all is already covered above.
3|look wise ok. i like...but some time performance not good... i wnt test one more week..if it not wrk properly i will return. some time 3G not support. some problem with connecting range also...4G not at all support. for this phone...m chose to return this phone n plain to buy 1+2
3|Phone pros : screen, oxygen os and has SD card Cons : battery, I don't understand why it's getting drained so quick. From 30% to 25% in 5 minutes of use in 3G with only Whatsapp. I tried it in airplane mode drained about 3% of 10 mind of use. This too with 10% screen brightness.
5|It's very very worth for 17k.. Compact display 5' HD screen 3Gb ram Good processors Superb Camera But felt slightly heat when i updated the OS & if Battery 3000mah then, would have been better... Stil its a better buy... If anybody needs invite, juz mail me.. Sudharsanp23@gmail.com
5|An amazing new product by Oneplus small, sleek, glossy, powerful and beautiful :)
3|I am using this phone since 2 months..Front camera is outstading at this price tag , performance and speed is at high.. bt the downfall is that the rear camera is not as good as i expected to be , and the call functionality is very annoying. Hope one plus will solve it asap...
5|Probably the best budget smart phone out there today. Smooth performance , the 3 gb ram makes all the difference . Also the OS is almost stock android which is great . The oxygen ui is great. Only thing lacking is camera quality. Hopefully a software update will fix this .
5|"After Using 1 week i found everthing good with the mobile n also features also as per the specifications given by the company meets the product quality in such a minimum price. so Overall a very good product with excellent features n quality of bulit of mobile from outside."
5|The phone is just superb I'm using it from past one week want to spread the oneplus x joy with others I have got one invite if anyone is interested can email me at s.varunreddy09@gmail.com or whatsapp me at 9611918999 it expires in 2 days so be fast to ask me and feel free to message
4|It is complete 30 hours with the phone and this is just fanstatic. Very smooth , beautiful screen and more over very handy. The only drawback is the no backlight for capacitive touch Burton's and very difficult to find them Seems, battery is moderate and no complains
4|Phone was superb..especially its display and performance..everything was good compared to other phones.. But in camera flashlight is not working.. While taking pics in photo mode. Sometimes heat is dissipated while charging.. Other than that.. 1+x was awesome!!!
4|Having said that. I bought this product after using Xperia. I admit this phone is better. It has got everything but lacks a good battery. Yes the battery doesn't last long, iIhave to charge it twice a day. If you use 3g or play any game for that matter battery runs out very quickly.
3|Dont buy ,not support sd card ,try different company sd card not support, 10.gb internal memory not enough , not connect to laptop without adapter Other brand mobile memory card show default storage ,you can save all files in sd card. I can't recommend this phone
4|The look and feel of the phone is premium and absolutely in love with the camera and Display. But given that, the product is slightly overpriced. Also, there is no scope for OS update beyond Lollipop in near future/forever.. Should sacrifice on expandable memory to use in Dual Sim.
3|so far so good. good battery backup... nice cam, doesnt hang, fast processor. may be a little over priced, but the features offered are true to their word. if you can really spend so much, u may like it. but if you have a little bit of a financial contrain, look for something else.
3|This is the worst smartphone i have used so far software wise. The contacts are not traceable, the usage charges of data and call are not known and displayed. It creates a lot of problems in usage. Hardware wise it may be good. Buy it only when you don't have anything else to buy.
4|Excellent delivery! Came within a day ,that too during a festive time .. The phones looking awesome ..the camera performs really poor during low light.... The dark mode feature is really helpful and saves a lot of battery! Overall good but not the best available in the market ....
5|Pros: 1.Glassy back and look of the device 2.Display is too good 3.Front Camera will give you best selfies 4.No lag with 3 GB ram and 2.3ghz processor Cons: 1.Battery should have been above 3k mAh 2.Back Camera is not so good in low lighting
3|Pros- phone has great design, display is also nice, performance is very good, battery stays upto 1 day Cons- u need invite to buy, camera photo quality is not upto the mark, sound quality while playing mp3 is not very good, its just okay. Phone comes without a handsfree.
5|Awesome phone ever I saw.. 5x far better than iPhone... Really a great phone...
3|Helloo.. I wish to purchase this phone but dont have an invite. Can anybody help
5|Just a best phone in the mid range price segment with superb build quality (at par with iphone) and best of specifications. Thanks one plus team. Software issues resolved promptly by one plus team. Just take this phone blindly. I am sure you will get in love with this beast too!!!
3|Average Phone. Not that Good. Switching from Speaker to Normal during the call makes the person doesn't hear your voice and many other issues in the phone. The Keyboards is not responding as it was earlier. Overall Average Phone. If u want invites. Whatsapp me 9999348834
4|How bad is the battery backup? I don't play much games on mobile.max usage will be for using Wifi/3g,music. Also someone mentioned that the audio quality is not good. Is it so? I'm already suffering with my Xolo handset,which has poor audio. And how is the back camera ?
4|Phone is good no objection. But there is problem dual sim no memory card or single sim and memory card this is not good. When I am paying 17k then why this. Low light images are dull. I am sharing invite of one plus x INC5-CBF9-831C-23A0 INDE-5FC6-57A5-639B IN56-83B8-DA35-59A7
3|Heating issue too much and phone data not move in sd card. I telling data not application. Also when use phone mamory have no option to sharing video and photos. Please solve major issue. I am giving you 3 star for body and processor. allover phone is good.
5|Outstanding build quality and super fast Anrdoid experience! Great value for money. Amoled screen has excellent display and smooth surface. Oxygen OS is buttery smooth as well. Only the capacitive touch buttons should have had illumination but one gets used to it rather quickly.
5|Amazing product for this price. Users looking for daily office related apps and that kind of usage must go for it. Heavy gaming app users should go for one plus 2. Best thing is the screen clarity and 3 GB RAM which makes it superb to use. Great body build is an added advantage!
4|Good product. Buy a flip cover immediately . Otherwise the glass gets scratched
4|A great budget phone with premium looks but the only problem is that the software lacks finesse. One can't move apps to SD card. Even though an update was made available, but the moved apps get inactive in a couple days. Rest everything is just close to perfect. I am loving it.
3|One plus X is really a nice phone better than my old phone motoG battery backup is ordinary, front camera is of good quality Rear camera is not the best one. Sound quality and voice call quality is good but phn have less features than Lenovo and Samsung products of this range.
5|Really like the phone, its really sleek and neat design..Amazon delivered it well within time. Almost Stock Android where no hanky panky things, which allows more free space than other OEM's. Haven't used in calling as it supports Nano SIM. ordered one from Vodafone.
5|This phone is just awesome. There's just no other word for it. At this price range you got such a premium finish with a smashing hardware. It is a steal. I have been using this phone for only a week now, but would definitely recommend this phone to anyone over a pricey iphone.
2|Pros : 1. Look and feel 2. Game performance Cons : I found below primarily software problems : 1. If I put in speaker and turn it off, the mic doesnt work 2. Blue tint on displays 3. Camera is not good, not reproducting actual colours.
5|World Class product. Excellent packaging & finishing. There is no doubt that for 17K, its value for money phone. Unique design of USB charging cable -much appreciated. Company thinks differently , perhaps the only one which provides a decent protective cover for the phone !
4|One Plus X invite IN90-3C5B-D551-DFA8 Claim immediately!
5|Great Phone to use. Have Two invites. Genuine buyers who are really waiting for the phone. Please whatsapp me at +919886041041 for the invite code before purchase.. First come First Serve. My status in Whatsapp would show One Plus X invite available. Else assume its gone.
5|I got the package 2 days after ordering. Packing is very elegant and simple. The user experience is fluent,. Camera is extremely good in well lit conditions, low light performance is sub-par. Loud speaker quality is good. So far, a well rounded phone. Buy without any doubts.
5|No phone is as good as one plus X under sub 20,000 category. Pixel Per Index (ppi) is more than iphone 6s plus. So better retina display and the best part it does not feel Chinese at all, touch is very good and user interface is very simple in comparison to any other brand.
5|Best phone under 17k. (5*****) This is the undoubtedly the best mobile phone one can get under 17k. Keeping in mind its brand value, hardware and its absolutely gorgeous looks. It looks very beautiful. It has a nice slim design, with black glass both at the front and back.
3|Every thing is good except battery its drains with in 6 to7 hours and another major problem is i cant move the data to memory card. In samsung mobiles it has best options to to move or copy any were in device i have using the file maneger which will work to move the data
5|Value starts right from the time of unboxing - when you find that it has a decent screen protector & a back cover included. Smooth phone, regular updates, and from an Indian context - a Oneplus device with FM Radio! Easily a top league phone in the 15-20k price range.
4|No complaints. No repents. With raving reviews on One plus one, this no disappointment at a bit lower cost but with expandable memory. Quality is very good. Headphones could have been provided. Came with screen guard and silicon case to run with out of the box straight ...
3|I am happy for the product delivery & all other facility provided by Amazon. However, I am not happy for the product has I am finding difficulty to detect my SD card in phone. I have installed 64gb card & it is not recognized by device. I need someone to help me. Thank you
5|Just received today..and it's looks stunning.. Run smoothly, no lag,light weight, no heat up, dispaly and sound no issue,battery backup till now going good even after continueas 30 mins hd video play. Not for person who wants type c charger, wireless charge,nfc
3|The phone is good, not great. Rear camera underperforms, front is good. Looks are really great.The saddest thing is that the specs say that it's a dual SIM phone, but actually it either allows u to use an external memory card or the second SIM.This is a really foolishthing
5|Excellent product. I use an iPhone 5 an and Samsung note edge. But I cannot believe that such a product costs 16999 Rs. The fit and finish is equivalent to any phone of 35000. It's very element and very fast. Apart from the camera quality I am very happy with the product.
5|This is the best phone in this price range. 3GB ram with 16gb internal memory. Decent performance, no lags, no memory issue and decent battery backup of one day. The screen is an amoled with bright and dark colors. And the touch is also very sensitive. Love this phone. ?
5|Have been using it for past 1 month. One of the best UI. No lags. Beats 5c on the looks. The glass back is garnish to this awesome product from OP. Just take care to get a good back cover!! Or u'll end up running the USP of the phone, it's back panel
5|It just works! I haven't even thought about the phone because it works seamless. Only when there is an issue, you think about the phone/software/hardware/brand. If you don't face any issue, you don't realize how awesome it is until someone reminds you. Highly recommended!
2|unable to make phone work on airtel network.It only allows incoming calls otherwise shows only emergency calls.However the same SIM works in my old phone w/o any issue.I am not sure if this phone is registered on airtel network or not or there is problem in handset itself
4|Nice phone with a cool nd stylish look. Best in budget 17000 is worth to pay for dis phone..... Nd about d amazon delievry.....order d phone on 19 nd got d update that phone will receive on 24 but got the phone on 21 itself!!!!! Excellent services by Amazon....
3|I bought the OnePlus X mobile after getting the invite. I haven't gotten around using it still as I'm currently travelling. So detailed review will follow. But first things first - When I opened the package, I was surprised to see that the pack missed the USB cable!
5|Great Phone, VALUE FOR MONEY. Display is Very Good. Voice clarity is very good. Battery hardly last to 8 to 9 hours. you cannot change the media saving mode to SD Card. very less setting options compared to MI phones. Google Gallery app & Text message app is not good
4|IN39-09BA-6CFD-30B3. I don't want it so enjoy if any one wants to buy it. Dua mein yaad rakhna:p
4|Powerfull device.. ? Lag free ?Awesome amoled display ?One of d best feature is memory card slot and c is missing even in one plus 2. ? Stylish and good looking device ?Power full snapdragon 801 chipset ? Super camera both at back and front
5|if you are looking for an invite to get OnePlus X, WhatsApp me at 8943780282
5|I had both iPhone n X in both my hands, honestly X had a rich new feel to it ! I would say now it's One plus era... Iphone specs are quite low in comparison to One plus models ! Specially the price factor, one can not ignore it - One plus is definitely value for money.
3|NFC is nit there...so wireless payments can't be done even after getting Marshmallow update...so i think it's better to buy a phone with NFC capabilities... like Moto X Play in same budget range...I hope One Plus One keep this feature in future phones...rest all is OK!
5|Build quality is premium its very compact and stylish.for 17000 its absolutely worth.call quality is very clear.,battery back up is also great i haven't experienced any heating of the device, only disadvantage i feel its very slippery.overall experience is super.
2|I brought one plus X, its have lots of problem. so much network fluctuation in mobile, mobile is not getting any network for any sim card. am facing so much problem regarding network. sometime touch of mobile not worked. charger of mobile is also not working propelry.
5|Ordered for a two day delivery but received with in a day. Previously the software has some bugs. After the update of oxygen 2.1.3 most of the issues were resolved. But it till has bugs hoping to be fixed in further updates. Overall experience with the mobile is good.
5|I paid for a two day delivery. Amazon surprised me by delivering it in one day :) Regarding the product- loving it so far. picture quality is good, especially the front cam. Sound quality is quite decent. Phone looks stunning. Still discovering the features.
4|Just got one today delivered .Maybe bit too early to pass final judgement but it appears very nice aesthetically and performance wise . battery performance yet to assess . It is saying can extend memory with micro SD card to 128 GB . Can any one tell me sd card slot ?
5|My first android phone. So cant comment much on operating system. However the performance is very satisfactory. Battery life ia fine and the charger is quite awsome. Front and back camera results are simply amazing. I will say this phone is value for the money phone.
4|Nice phone. The best packing ever seen. Pros Call quality Camera Customized options provided by oxygen os Multi apps running .. Performance is good Battery charging is fast.. Lasts longer Cons No headphones provided
5|Guys am saurav. I had An offer for you. If you wanna looking For a one plus x then contact me I have purchase/invitation codes,only 24hours Left. Time starts from 10:30am(Saturday) 26/12/2015. Phn:7738997086 THANKYOU. OFFER ON FOR TODAY.
3|It has great specs but the battery life isnt so good and so I changed my mind and would rather buy lenovo vibe p1.I had just received an invite for this phone if any1 likes to buy it can use the code given below - INB1-6C2A-A6A3-09BB Claim it within 3 days.
4|Pros- Killer looks Great Performance No lags Very good Camera except low light Great Amoled Screen CONS- Hmm.. Just one which is battery should have been more with quick charging. But at this price point this is steal...
5|I got an invite... If anyone needs it then ping me on samz84@rediffmail.com
5|I liked this mobile mainly because of its eye catching design and stunning looks. Good move from one plus team as they have given a dual sim and sd card option with decent hardware at that price tag with free case and screen guard included... Keep going and good job
3|Overall A Good Phone. Very poor Battery life. I slept at 23:00 with power saving Mode on, data and WiFi off with battery life 50%. At morning 6:30 battery is at 43% without any use. Two times charging required in 24 hrs. Rest phone is Butter smooth. No worries.
5|Hard to believe this phone comes in 17k only... Design is hell-awesome... Display is perfect Smoothness is in performance . I have been in using it since a week and it's going really well.. Lucky to have this one.. Just go for it... :)
3|it is best design have ever seen, but the phone getting heated more while using wi-fi/internet and Charge at a time :((... requesting Oneplus team to get over us the same on asap ( built hardware parts as iPhone done for 6 and 6+ ). Camera/performance is good.
5|I have bought this mob a month back. It's solid and stylish. Performance is also very good.. Have some heating issues.. Last week my mob fell from 3 ft height, but for my surprise no damage was there, though both sides are made of glass. Thanks to gorilla 3.
4|The phone is awesome. The best looks I think under 20,0000 and the front camera is really nice. Rest all is fine. Some cons are also there. 1. Battery drainage but still better than many other android phones. 2. Can't connect to 5 GHz mode.
4|It's Good Phone, in budget of this range. Design is awsome, bettery charge in 2 hours. Bettery backup good. Camera also awsome in daylight conditions sad with lowlight for flash. But overall cemera good. Never hang phone, multi -tasking also good.
4|Ordered on 1st Jan and received on 3rd Jan. Three days before expected delivery date. Mobile is superb. Amazed with first impression Design, Display, Camera and interface. Performance not checked yet. But love this phone and Amazon for earlier delivery.
4|I'M facing the USSD issue with my airtel nano sim. No automatic alerts after SMS, Call and when internet connectivity turned off. This is so annoying that I am unable to check the balance regularly. Please make a note its OnePlusX Oxygen OS issue yet not resolved.
5|Awesome Looks and great Display! Good performance for day to day use! Average Camera and Battery! That is what you are supposed to get from a device worth 17K! Totally satisfied with the product after a week's use! I think it will remain good for the next 2 years!
4|The phone if heating up unnecessarily.. Performance is not that bad. There were a few instances of stutter on the first day. But works just fine now. Display is amazing. Looks are killer. But I honestly think Vibe S1 would've been a better buy. At least in India..
5|Amazon provided very fast delivery. Thank you Amazon. The product One plus x is fantastic. Look and feel of the phone is amazing. Don't think, buy the phone when you get an invite. Little bit disappointed with the camera. There is no manual mode to capture a pic.
4|IN0B-D58E-FECA-39A3 Extra invite, please use it before tomorrow
5|Grt phn. I have an invite Contact me at hasnain200188@gmail.com
2|Unable to download apps and files to SD card,downloading to phone memory only. also unable to move apps and files to SD card from phone memory.called customer care reply as'software problem canot do anything as of now may get corrected after updating the software
5|Awesome Device. Really the in hand feels so beautiful. UI is great. Smooth and good. Gaming lacks a little but software update soon to come. Kudos oneplus Camera is not that great though but it's OK. Battery lasts a day with moderate usage.
5|Very nice phone with excellent features.. I'm loving it to the core... Camera quality is beyond my expectation. I feel phone is very handy n light weighed which I was actually looking for.. So go ahead and get an invite to grab it....
5|Keeping it short; absolute delight and value for money in 17000. Stunning looks, extremely slim ...works just perfect. Was considering buying either nexus 5x or one plus x; ended up with one plus due to its fantastic feedback and I am amazed by this device
3|One plus x having smooth in function, but not fulfilling the requirements as it was not clearly mentioned in the product information or specifications. Phone can't use simultaneously for Dual Sim & memory card. 16 GB in built memory is not sufficient for users.
3|The phone is good in terms of looks and quality. Rear camera could have been better and there are some software issues which you come across upon usage- sometimes doesn't show balance after call.. And the invite system is just to create craze among people..
5|This 5star for Amazon delevery. I order it yesterday and got the phone today.. This is called performing beyond expectations. Thank you so much amazon. Very delighted with the experience. :) Product review come later, after evaluation.
4|Good phone....good look....selfie cam should be more affective.....thanks
4|Camera is not good when it compare to Samsung. It's production heat when we put the charge and used it.otherwise excellent speed for all other applications and browsing.Battery is there for full day with internet. We are having option for battery backup mode.
4|purchased thru invite from Amazon.No need to purchase screen guard and back cover 'coz comes with the kit.Looks amazing like i phone and speed is amazing comparing others.battery is just ok.Must careful while handling.If falls down we have to write off Rs 17k
5|I am die hard fan of this flagship brand, having all their Phones. The product is awesome at this range , looks are damn killing, its a direct war too others fruits in the market at pretty reasonable cost as well. Kudos to One Plus team, keep doing good work.
2|Pros - No lag processor Display graphics Cons- Too poor battery backup Heat problem Not at all apt for gaming Verdict - - Design is good, but not up to mark for a 17k mobile, that too from a premium brand
4|My observations apart from specifications and design of the phone(yeah its premium looking). The stand by time of this Mobile is pathetic. Even when the phone is in sleep it eats away 10 % battery every time i wake-up, might be some bug hope they fix it soon.
5|Amazing phone great value for money as per Oneplus standards..I used Oneplus one for almost one year without any problem then I ordered this phone opx ...using it now...amazing phone...best phone under 20k and way way better than brands like sony samsung lg..
4|Slimmest phone ever..only 0.7cm... White goes Royal.. Cameras is just beyond expectations takes 7mb size pic... Only con i have found is battery draining issue... Otherswise worth phone within 17000/-.... Black is fingers print magnet so go for white...
5|It's a beautiful beast.. Juat fell in love with it when it was first launched. Got invite on first day thanks to oneplus. I'm using it for last one month, no issue till date.. I highly recommend this phn to every one. Best phn under 20k..
4|The phone looks very good in the design department.Just bought the Phone yesterday.Will write a better review once used it for a while. In the meantime i have 2 invites still remaining.Write to me on still.satish@gmail.com for the invites if interested.
5|Any1 need an invite lasting 1 day more ...txt me arunteja.teja2 ...gmail
3|Horrible battery life.. Too many stupid bugs and lags alot rest all fine
5|anyone up for invite IN41-BA9A-92CD-44F9 valid for 24hours hurryup legit
4|Whn i add contacts with google+ storage, some of the contacts are getting lost(stores in g+ but not visble in th phone), but whn i choose fo phone storage , all the contacts are stored and visible... Do anyone get this problem? Anybody can give a solution?
4|To be surprised internal memory is showing 11.5 GB only. Other wise everything is good. Camera, Sound, Performance and user experience is good. I liked it. We have to install Audio, Video and Gallery(There is one default in Camera app, swipe left)
5|First excellent service by Amazon. Phone got delivered in 3 days. Now about the phone. Its a great phone. Powerful specs, decent camera, great built quality. The metal and glass body is a treat. All in all best phone in this price range. Highly recommended.
4|Got this on new year.After using it for 10 days i rate it as a classy stuff, high PPI coupled with Amoled gives it a very rich and bright look.Performance is good and it never hangs.Battery is on downside though.Overall its really worth the price.Go for it
5|Beautiful build quality, SD card issue solved with new update, in rear camera led flash option disappear once it is made off & never appears again to use it. Although flash is working with other third party apps. Hope next camera update resolve this issue.
4|The build quality is awesome! Looks wise its amazing ! Display is good ! Camera is good! Battery backup is OK if you are using 3g all the time, it will stay alive for around 8hours!It slips through the hands while removing from your pocket! Very sensitive!
4|I got a invite in the afternoon, really I was dam happy, excited to see my one plus X. Please suggest how to share the invites as I heard after purchasing the phone v get some invites where v can share it our friends. Please help out.
4|Last week only purchased and delivered last Saturday. Product is good, but for SD card not installed by default and some other bug is there. Also from this Wednesday onwards given Republic day offer. If informed earlier means we can utilize this benefits.
4|Great handset.....Wonderful feel, looks & Equally good performance! Guess, if I have to be a Devil's advocate, I'll say only that the Oneplus X, doesn't have, as original software, the ability to save tunes got thro' Whatsapp or Bluetooth as the ringtone.
5|This is my review after continuously using for 2 weeks Pros Elegant design Good battery life Best display Smooth multi tasking Customized o.s Affordable price Cons No ear phones Android version 5.1.1
3|Okayish, only. Gaming experience not great. Battery life, poor. Performance issues, very much. Customer support, nill. Camera quality, amazing. Sim and storage, using one sim is much more sensible. Overall, overhyped product with above average experience!
4|Everything is awesome, except moving apps to sd card seems impossible..
5|Very good top class mobile... Is want invites sanjiv.nishanth@gmail.com
4|I bought it in the sale for 15k it's really awesome Mobile packing was good by Amazon camera is good. I Give 4 stars because while playing games little bit of heating is observed. all over its really fantastic mobile u can get for 15k or 17k. Hands on
5|Best phone to buy... More features in less price... Working of fon is good... No problems at all... GPS and maps is very effective than other mobile phones I use them most... Battery is satisfactory... You need to charge daily or buy a power bank...
4|I have bought this mobile over a month ago,It reached my expectations, especially the processor is excellent for those who do more with apps and games, I found nothing special with Oxygen Os except the black background, It gives an average battery life,
5|This is the best phone in this price range built is superb feels like u r using an iPhone and it's feedback is awesome it's fast also display quality is nice better than my nexus 5 and iPhone 5 really a nice phone get one of this than other phones
5|Awsome looks. Have been using for a few days. No lag at all. Very fast and the UI is also very good. I found the camera to be good as well. No heating issues. Comes with a pre installed screen guard and a transparent back cover which is of good quality.
2|Excellent build quality and packaging, the excitement stopped there :-( Battery drains super quick Device heats up pretty fast 3 GB RAM and responds slower than my previous device which has only 512 MB Overall experience - Super BAD!
2|Guys.. Help me out I don't see any flash button when my camera is in photo mode. I have it in slow motion, time lapse, vdo, and in al others. But I jus don't have it in photo mode. Do I got to change any of my settings. Sort this out please
3|Battery drains very quickly. It requires atleast 2-3 times of full charge per day if we play games.Other than that it is amazing!The battery they promised of 2525 MAH is not reliable.Moreover it gets heated when we play higher end games like Asphalt 8.
5|Yesterday I got my one plus x Amazing phone as expected from one plus one Battery -9/10 Camera - 8/10 Processor - 9/10 Display - 8/ 10 Sound quality - 8/10. Better than iPhone. Strongly recommend this phone
4|Positives Cute design, faster performance, front cam, Easy to handle with one hand, display quality Negatives Text Messaging problem, internal memory should be 32gb, either 2sim or one sim with one sd card can use
4|Superb phone. Only drawback is Battery life but definitely not so bad....It looks superb in hand and performance is really too good. I was planing to buy Nexus 5X and at last moment changed the plan and I can say it is one of the best mobile in market.
5|Value for money. Total satisfaction. Although we could hv 32GB internal in this cost. But 16GB suffies my need as well. I also got Lenovo S1 which come into its close competion, both r good and slip sleep high class devices
4|OnePlus X (Onyx) - Invite Only Awesome Phone Using it as a Daily driver. Performance is up the charts. No complaints till now. Best budget phone you can buy.!! BTW Invite Available with me Hit me up at himanshuruler93@gmail.com
4|Got the phone with the invite. I always wanted to buy a Oneplus phone after hearing the reviews on Oneplus one. Good specs for 17k. Pros - No lag while using multiple apps. Good screen resolution and camera. Cons - I feel battery drains very fast.
5|i have extra oneplus x invite . if anyone need whatsapp me 9555234471
5|Awesome phone. Great tech. Freshness in todays gen of smartphones... Way way way ahead of samsung htc in terms of providing highly loaded featured in a budget smartphone. Thanks oneplus for existing!!! Will "NEVER SETTLE" for sure now!! :D
1|worst phone and worst service......after buying this mobile it was just 2 weeks ...the touchpad is not working properly and now the display sa gone away ....and i have not even dropped it.......worst service and worst phone i have seen in my life.....
3|Its a good built product which is very solid to hold and handy as well. The drawback which i would say is that i faced some lags while returning from one page to other irrespective of superior processor and 3 gigs ram. Felt for android its not enough.
4|pretty good mobile, 'cept for a few quirks ;) ..performance wise, its amazing ; and its a good looking phone quirk? yeah, the eternal dilemma ~> need 2 sims to be active in the mobile to be used, 'and' to have Memory card added on to it!
5|Can't expect anything more. Smooth performance , good bettery, average camera, good built . But one thing I did not like about this phone , is ambient display is not working after update. This may start to work after next update. Thanks amazon! ?
2|It may have the same specifications as the OnePlus one but is no where near as good as it if you direly need two sims or a smaller display go for it , but in terms of performance both software and hardware are not at par with that of its predecessor.
5|Super Mobile. Excellent finishing and I particularly like the perforamce. Hybrid slot is added advantage. Go for it without second thought. Worth every buck. Watch Unboxing Video of white/Champagne edition https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjegUKpCwok
3|Phone is real nice but one big problem is heating of phone that is big issue.. Camera is good.. Ram is good Overall performance is good.. It's heating while use of more than one app...so no use of 3gb ram..
4|The packaging is as high quality as it can get. Very sleek indeed. They also provide with a case so to avoid scratches. The screen is just wonderful with the AMOLED display. The one thing I liked is the length of the cable. Much Much lengthier.... Which I liked from a charging standpoint.
5|Firstly I would like to appreciate Amazon for the fastest delivery (one day). regarding the phone its really good in terms of front camera and the performance is awesome . its stylish and metal finish adds feather on the crown , good value for money
5|IN04-9D7F-6BE3-530B IN9A-ACB0-B315-012A IN33-29EE-3068-18CB
4|INA8-35FE-BCF9-AEA5. Invite will expire in 1day 23 hours...Enjoy.....
5|Awesome. 1 day Delivery. Great Specs. Great choice. :P
4|invites: IN8E-4679-E990-9E86 INA3-CD79-0C29-AA92 IND2-A285-212C-0A7E
5|Nice. Only the issue with screen size and separate sd card slot.
5|Decent looks and colorful display liked the phone. It outperforms all the smartphones in this segment. Very handy with 5inch display. Decent battery life for 1 n 1/2 day.. Camera with 13mp rear n 5 mp selfie shooter gives excellent images
4|Phone which is worth taking ... I am totally satisfied with the product made by one plus ... Too good and economical product ... Worth taking it ... The best camera just have a little problem with the either option of 2 sim and memory card together
3|So the charger doesn't work and the camera with flash doesn't work sometimes and pictures can't be clicked ! The OS isnt great. Just a sleek good looking phone, Good to call an text.If you use too many apps, it will get slow !
1|dont buy this phone it wont meet your expectations.Even If you charge Battery full it wont come one day also. You cannot able to use dual sim facility in this either you have use both sims or one sim and sd card. The phone also had heating problem.
4|Really good & excellent mobile, video UI, Gud Performance, but one disadvantage for dual Sim card users. U can use single sim+SD card, u can't use 2nd Sim card,(or), u can use dual Sim but u can't use memory card that 's why i gave 4 rating
3|A good phone for the price..pretty quick on things. rest blah blah one can read from here and there...but the speakers are horrible and if one needs to use this on hands free mode it is such a pain. There is hardly any volume in it and not audible.
4|Good phone under for 16999. Pros: 1. Good looking. 2. Camera quality is good. Cons: 1. Screen is not that clear under sun light. 2. Sound in head phone's is less (need to check with other set of my head phones).
4|Anyone please use these 4 invites within 2 days...expires in 2days. Invite 1: INA6-DC53-999A-EA67 Invite 2: IN5E-2D66-2D2C-FDCE Invite 3: IN2B-A359-6B79-8EAA Invite 4: IN7A-7CB9-B781-2CB2 Please use these and thank me if found the phone useful.
5|Thanks to amazon very fast delivery...and coming to phone it is more than expectations..one can say it beated all the phones near and more than its price range. Pros: Camera Gestures Guys get the invite and grab it immediately.
4|OnePlus X will killed all the android phones in it's Price range. No doubt the design is little like iphone or sony experia range. However, I would prefer to say OnePlus X is an android iphone at quarter the price and improved design. #NeverSettle
3|Using for two days. Pros: Built quality and design Decent if not great camera Display is good Cons: Battery is not good.. Charger should be with us all time. Inbuilt memory of 16gb is not enough. I use memory card compromising the second sim slot.
3|The built is good. Nice looking. Performance is ok. Battery power is not enough for whole day,may be enhanced.Additional memory slot should be provided. Total metal body will be nice.Still it is a very nice looking , compact and performing phone.
5|Display is excellent. Premium look Camera is excellent too. Audio quality is nice. Battery life is good. Lasts for a day with 3-4 hours of screen on time. No heating till now which is very good. And also back cover and screen guard are also good.
5|Awesome phone ... Received on time .. Amazing product .. Just buy it
5|Anybody wants one plus x invite Mail me on kawalsingh932@gmail.com
1|Brought this phone and very disappointed about the futures of sim card and memory card As we can use only one sim card and one memory card at a time we can't use two sim card and memory card at once. Second thing is when we insert memory card its not showing in phone and we should find in file manager and apps are not moveable coz of this really very disappointed with one plus x.
5|Super Fast Delivery by Amazon, best online and most trustworthy shopping site. Great Phone but there are some problems. USSD Codes problem, Wi-Fi connection problem, Battery is definitely a problem and a little heating compared to other phones.
2|It is giving issue like lag in responding to contacts opening and notification drawer. Incoming voice quality is very feable when outside of closed room. Notification bar opens even in phone lock and during attending call. I am using 2.1.3
5|Oneplus X (Onyx) is the best phone in midrange. The X factor of this phone is it's amoled screen with crisp clarity. Kudos to Oneplus team. As for Amazon stands for a2z satisfaction for its customers. Amazon is ammajaan (mother) of online sites.
1|While buying this product,I check only configuration not features but later on come to know that, Its dont support dual sim with Micro SD, No Music default,No Gallery,Contact,Call and camera setting worst,Network connecting issue and many more.
3|UI not that great , option of using dual sim is restricted by putting the memory card ,which is a must . Side button on the right gets pressed in normal course of usage and phone gets rebooted .Finish quality is one of the best in the category.
4|Awesome delivery by Amazon. From the first look the phone resembles an iphone. The touch is simply awesome. I just transferred all my data using xender app from my previous phone and found the the devide heats a bit. Need to check this further.
5|The phone is absolute beauty . it is really a premium phone. And that too in the mid range. Battery life is alright. Camera is k... Very basic too. Proximity sensor doesn't work at times. But it is manageable. But overall the phone is fantastic
5|Wonderful phone. No words to say how lovely the phone is. Its really a beast. If you can not afford the OnePlus 2, go for this. Its a wonderful replacement for OnePlus 2. Can be called as a mini flagship killer 2015. :P
3|There is no select all/mark all option to delete at a time like contacts,pics,etc & there is no mobile data/enabled data option in this mobile.if someone has noticed this..kindly reply me & help me?? Rest of the specifications are good.
5|Don't go by -ve comments Product is pretty much bang for buck.. You won't regret trust me! In fact you won't believe what you're getting for what you paid :) Display is too good, speaker is pretty loud and performance is snappy......
3|Not that great i have expected. More hype but i see feature is less. I cant use my second sim and my memory card. Which is a big disappointment for me. I am thinking of returing for a constant reboot trying different ways to use it let me see.
5|I need invite code one plus x ..pls provide if any one ha e..thanks
1|While playing games phone gets hanged in two days of purchase...:-(
5|Awesome... Simply amazing... Enjoying using one plus x... #happy :D
3|Although the mobile is stunning in terms of looks, Oxygen OS is full of bugs. It is still in it's early stage. With many bugs in the OS, sometimes you will get frustrated while using this mobile, Waiting for the software update from one plus.
3|1.My phone is getting breaked cast screen and my phone not working properly at that time.. Does any have same problem?solution? 2. Camera clarity getting some bluish tinge on some colours specially green color. Does any one identified?
5|Amazing finish No performance lags Good n vivid display Very good battery backup for 2525mah Having a great user experience..got rooted last nyt :D Would recommend buying Fast delivery n as prescribed by d seller
3|Good Phone but didn't reached my expectations. Not much disappointed but feels lack in phone while using it. There are 2 problems which matter some people & some not 1)Heating of phone precisely 38% 2)Battery Performance (1 day max)
4|The phones is really good in: Display Camera Normal app usage But I was really disappointed by the gaming performance maybe it is an oxygen os problem but it does not handle any game on my phone properly or without lag
5|Best buy under 20k. I guess no other device is this good aesthetically. But dissatisfied with the rear cam. Maybe a software bug. Front cam is A1. Other than that this phone is good to go. If you planning to buy under 20k, just go for it.
4|Been using this phone for about 1 month now. Must say that it is a truly amazing phone. Blazing fast and smooth performance. Loving this phone. Beats any other phone in this category. Worth every buck for the features packed into this phone.
5|Super phone battery life no issues. 2525mah is just a number. Super performance, ultimate look, super light, bit laggy in aeroplane mode but else perfect, after updating your phone kindly do factory data reset. Then ull not face any problem.
5|Best phone in the price range!!! You won't regret buying this phone.... Best budget phone by oneplus and I highly recommend it..... If you at looking to buy op2 I would recommend you to buy this instead of that..... Phenomenal phone!!!!
5|Really i didnot believe after using iPhone that cheap cost phones are really so much nice Its back finish is what make me look at it again & again. Really value for money,android is still not that fluid but then i can understand.
3|The handset is very NC and light weight too. But some times it gets heated while playing games. Others wise it's too good handset I love it.. One sad think is that we are not getting handset with the phone after paying 17k. So my rate is 3.
2|Camera pics cant be stored in SD Card, then what is the use of that expandable slot? Really disappointed with One Plus and its X model. For the company which works for its community. Please fix it immediately with a software version update.
5|Got it delivered in 2 days. Stunning looks. Compact best phone only 5 inches. Installed world cricket championship , asphalt nitro , dumb games 3 ... Didnot face any lag or heating issue. Very cool and smooth experience . loved this phone !
4|Hello guys finally got this early at possible thanks to amazon and on plus 1.Now lets come to key things about mobile. 1)Display:Amazing color production with AMOLED display 441 PPI which looks very sharp and decent color on device.Corning Gorilla Glass 3 Screen Protection 2)Camera: front camera is 8MP and rear camera is 13MP front facing camera quality is very good at low light also i take many selfies under low light which lookes good it also have beauty mode which allows us to make faces clear. 3)Body:lookes very premium and feels good in hand best u can get at this price range.looks like iphone 4s glass at back side and metal frame at edges. 4)Performance: I played many games on this including MC5,Asphalt8,FIFA15,and DH5 very smooth performance no frame drop nothing works fine. 5)Battery:2525mah battery which gives good backup when mobile is at normal use when u gonna play games then its graph decrease certainly at video play u can watch only 4to5 hrs max. 6)Hardware/Software:it comes with 3gb ram powered by 2.3quad core processor Snapdragon 801.Android5.1.1with oxygen 2.3.1 os It has hybrid sim technology it means you cannot use your second sim with memory card it has 16gb internal storage upto 128gb extended storage. Previously i used moto x play in moto little frame drops are there during playing MC5 and FIFA15 both devices enough good at their price range. I said only disadvantage over moto x play of this one plus x is only battery 2525mah rest of is absolutely fantastic i would choose one plus x. Thank you for reading. Go for it .
3|Phone looks sleek and very easy to handle the 5inch screen although there are few issues I am facing are : 1) the lag initially while unlocking the patterns,sometimes software hangs performing your previous tasks.. 2) the proximity sensor sensing is very weak and what I feel is placed wrongly so during the calls you tend to accidentally open up few apps so better place your phone properly and close to your ears 3) Phone tends to heat up while playing high end games, its a common bug we find these days due to the SOC used.. 4) the navigation buttons provided should have been illuminated because paying such huge amount we expect atleast that to happen. There is an option for you to get the navigation buttons on screen which is very responsive than the buttons provided physically.. 4)Radio / FM reception what I feel is of very poor quality.. 5) battery tend to drain out as other phones might be due to AMOLED display which consumes more power. 6) camera is not at all upto any standards of a 17k phone.. Camera is just OK OK types if there is a proper sunlight then you get few reasonable pics both front and back.. 7) these many drawbacks faced, I'm sure its obvious you can look into other brands or newer phones from one plus ;)
4|Okay, so I received this phone today. The unboxing experience is awesome, one of the best on any phone. Beautiful box and nicely packed cable and charger with the literature. The phone itself looks great and the display is one of the finest I have seen. The clarity is amazing and the colours just pop (thanks to the AMOLED screen). The build is sturdy. Impressive glass and metal construction. The thing has a substantial weight to it though, despite having a smaller 5-inch screen size. Oxygen OS is great - near stock Android with just the right tweaks for a better overall experience. Best part? It is free of unnecessary bloatware. Now the storage may concern you, available storage after unboxing is about 11GB. Luckily you can pop in an SD card, but app installation on the same is not the best experience. But using it for media and documents is great. Well that's all the nice stuff, now for the down side. The camera is nothing more than average. Brightly lit photos are fine - nothing insane, just acceptable. Disappointing pictures in medium to low light, despite the 13MP Samsung ISOCELL rear shooter. HDR and flash help a little bit, but you know how it is. Even selfies were not very pleasing, even though the OnePlus X boasts a 8MP front cam. The refresh rate on the camera seems to be poor too. Moving the camera around while taking photos feels like playing a game at a very bad frame rate. The loudspeaker is not really a loud speaker (ha ha). Plus it's very easy to accidentally cover the thing with your hand while using it, and it just goes mute. It literally doesn't even struggle to push the sound through. I have a Lumia 640 too. It produces better photos and much louder audio than this. And it just cost me 9k. Comes for 8k now. And now, the most mentioned problem - this thing is hot, yo! And that's not in a good way. I had a 161MB Oxygen OS update pending. It took about 15 mins to download and 5-10 more minutes to complete the installation. Once it was done, the metal rim on the sides was pretty hot! Even then back got considerably warm. Now I doubt it'll get that hot while just navigating the menu or taking a call. But playing games is a no-no. Also forget any movie marathons on this thing. Though the display makes me wish it was capable, but you'll end up with a hot black bar with a dead battery in no time. Even the battery in general leaves a lot to be desired. There are obviously some good things to the OnePlus X - the screen, the body, the OS. And there are the bad things - the camera, the speakers, the processor. This phone does not seem to fit into the philosophy of "Never Settle". You kinda have to this time. For others looking for a slightly less bling phone with an average display and huge battery, you should probably get the Moto X Play. It is also not that good for gaming, but who really buys a mid-range phone for gaming anyways? Or if you can, spend some more and go for the trusty old OnePlus One, or even the Mi 4. Both will offer much better performance and overall experience. Also, lots of storage! Then, there's also some great offerings from Lenovo that you could check out. Do I regret spending Rs. 17,000 of my money on this phone? Not exactly - a little, maybe. But then, the market doesn't really offer much choice in terms of good mid-range Android phones. Each excels in something and sucks in something else. That's the problem with this price range in general.
3|Phone looks beautiful- no doubt about it..Many people are buying the phone just because it looks amazing (just as i fell for it!) But once u use the phone for a few days, and start noticing things beyond its looks, u realize that it just has average performance (it sports a 32 bit processor, which is outdated). It has full HD screen, but in reality i didn't find much difference when I compared it with my nexus 4. Camera is average. People start expecting that camera will also be as good as the looks of the phone, but it is not so. U will be disappointed. Battery is a factor for heavy users. My phone, many a times, didn't wake up from sleep (the screen didn't light up). Had to restart it. Returned the phone to Amazon when the problem persisted. (Amazon accepted and completed the return without a hitch or any questions! Many thanks to them!!). I must confess that I felt a little sad on returning the phone as I found its design and appearance very captivating! One more little issue was that when i used to hold the phone horizontally to play games or watch videos (without using headphones), my fingers would naturally come to rest over the speaker, and distort the sound - so I had to change my grip.. The speaker prevents u from holding the phone comfortably in horizontal position (at least, i felt so). As i said, the phone looks amazing.. But it attracts fingerprints and smudges like anything.. So u have to use the back cover provided along with the phone.. This makes the phone lose its beauty quotient a little. Beauty is only skin deep. Once u get over it, u realize the true quality (or the lack of it!!).. and somewhere in the back of my mind, i felt that the phone, for all its qualities and features, was just a tad bit overpriced! Adios, guys.. And choose wisely :-) PS: And please don't fall for 5 star ratings by guys who seem more interested in selling their invites! For those who are saying that the phone doesn't have gallery app - u can use the photos app (which is not very appealing), or u can download Gallery kk or Fotos or QuickPic app from Play Store Also, do remember to use App Permissions in Settings, where u can restrict unnecessary permissions asked by an app! Very good feature.
5|i think this is the one of the best phones out there!.... i didn't find any issues regarding this phone but the invite system is the only issue for me. i have had this phone 2 days after its launch in india on nov 7th, 2015 and from the first time i held it to now everything is damn good. the thickness, the screen size, its form factor (i have a small hand and i used to feel that iphone 4s or 5s is the right device for me but after handling this phone that math changed). you can easily hold the phone and use it with one hand. coming to the camera, i bet at this price point this is the only phone that can shoot photos the way it does. photos are crisp and colour saturation is good. it is definitely comparable to the other high end phones in the market. the battery is also good, if you are a moderate user like me with 4 to 5 hours of screen time then you will easily get through the day. but if you are a heavy user with lots of gaming, videos and music i dont think it will even last for 5 to 6 hours and i think that is an issue with all the phones out there so i cant comment exactly on the battery part but everyone has their own way of using the phone and i think this phone will get most of them through the day. and the list goes on and on but my final verdict is this is a good phone and if anyone of you reading this review do follow MKBHD, he said "good phones are getting cheap and cheap phones are getting good" on his first impressions on oneplus x and i definitely feel he is right. so if you have an invite don't hesitate to buy this phone and by the way i have used many phones all my life, the iphone line up from 4, lg g4, samsung s4, s5, s6 and many others and when i say this phone is good you better believe me ! thank you !
5|Oneplus X is a great piece of art.The AMOLED screen is just awesome and you will definitely feel that as if you are holding an iPhone 4s elongated version in your hand.The fronts 8MP snapper is great at taking selfies but the primary camera has some issues which I hope will be resolved in an software update. Now,coming to the SD card issue.Yes for the time being you can't transfer the apps from phone to the SD card but hey you've got an internal memory of 16 Gigs.And I am sure that,for the time being you won't have so much problem with the apps.You can access all the Music,videos and Pics that you keep on your SD card through the phone.So,yes there is a software glitch but we can have a little patience and let oneplus fix it with an software update. Coming to the Oxygen OS,it doesn't disappoint either.It is definitely not better than Cyanogen Mod but it is good. Overall the Phone looks amazing and is amazing.So,keep aside your second thoughts and buy this piece of art just like I did. The only cons of the phone are- 1)The SD card Issue 2)There are two speaker grills but only one of them works.I don't know what the other grill is for. 3)No 4K.Not a con for me but might be for others. 4)Graphics performance is not upto the mark.With the adreno 330 and 801 chipset,this device lags a bit in gaming.I do hope that Oneplus fixes it magically with a software update.
5|This is an awesome device that I ever used. Writing this after 1week of use. I was awaiting for the launch and placed an invite request on the same day. Because of natural calamities, got it bit late. It's OK, now enjoying with my OPX onyx. Pros : Design and look. Gives a premium feel as if holding something precious. Picture quality. Gives ease to eyes. Very clear. Camera is very neat. Am a selfie lover as my previous phone urges me to take selfie because of its clarity. Onyx doesn't stand down here. But I feel the rear 13mp takes great pics than the front 8ph. The front doesn't have the wide angle lens: ( Feel in hand is good. Normally we don't get premium and one hand usage in phone than except apple. OPX = Apple. No lags as of now. I run lots of apps and clears it once in a while. 3GB RAM fixes this issue. Call quality and network is good. Speaker is load but with one side working. The back cover given with the pack serves the need as the back is a real finger print. No heating issues except while charging where it warms. Cons : Battery life is not up to the mark. Need to charge twice a day. Marshmallow missing. Headset should have been given with the pack. The internal memory 16GB is a drawback for people using dual sims like me. Should compromise 1sim for expandable memory. The memory card slot replacing sim2 is not identified under settings--> storage and pics or videos taken cannot b auto saved to memory card. However the File manager identified the SD card and external files can b manually moved to SD card. Still the camera fies or no apps can b moved. Feels very elegant to hold and insists a scary feel always. All these cons are just a mist which disappears before Sun. Holding the phone in hand disappears all the Cons.
4|Hello, This is my second Oneplus handheld device after the OpO . The Oneplus one set a high standard, so this is what I felt after getting my hands on the X. I chose the X because of - SD card slot. - Compact size. - Design. Goods : Clean oxygen OS. Runs smooth. With close to ZERO bloatware. 3GB of RAM which is more than enough even though 4 seems to be the benchmark. Underclocked Snapdragon 801 should consume lesser power (haven't noticed the difference yet). Camera performs reasonably in natural light. Design : The phone is beautiful. The display adds to its beauty with crisp colour reproduction. Pixels cannot be distinguished what so ever. Bads: Only 16GB flash storage available. Camera produces grainy pictures under artificial lighting. Single LED flash as opposed to the One's twin LED setup. Very limited customizability as compared to the CM12 OS my One is running. Battery consumption. Now this is a big disappointment. The standby battery backup is very good. But when the screen is on, oxygen OS' poor optimization leads to low battery in about 8 to 10 hours of above average usage. Verdict : It is a pretty good phone for the price, but your first priority should be the xaiomi mi4c. It's almost as good as the Oneplus one. A few niggles in the OS are sure to be fixed with coming OTA updates. The phone's potential has even made me give my Oneplus One away to a relative. Mainly because of it's design and Compact size. This phone is money well spent.
4|I purchased one plus x on 5th November and it was delivered to me on 8th November. I shall straight away jump to the pros and cons of this device based on my usage since then. Pros -------- 1) Beautiful design and build quality. Resembles iphone 4&4s to some extent but that not necessarily a bad thing. Premium build quality and you can easily mistake it for a far more expensive phone than what it really is. 2) Gorgeous display. Full HD screen + amoled display with an all black theme just makes it look Awesome. 3) good rear & front facing camera considering the price 4) smooth performance with no lag whatsoever 5) Good reception and call quality 6) Near stock Android with no bloatware Cons --------- 1) no fast charging, USB type c and NFC 2) sound output through speaker grill is a little tiny occasionally. It's not really bad but a little more would have certainly helped 3) this phone is a finger print magnet thanks to it's glass body 4) no fingerprint scanner Overall I'm quite satisfied with the performance of this phone considering the price point of view. I always wanted a premium looking device with great screen and one plux hasn't disappointed me.
3|I received my Oneplus X today and from afternoon i stick with my phone. After using this phone for several hours i am giving this phone 3 Stars. I am using Samung Note 2 since from its launch. I am fully satisfied by it. But now it's hardware showing its age so I wanted to buy a new phone. My first preference was Apple. But i did note like 6S looks. So i decided to wait for iphone 7 and untill then i will use my new Oneplus X +ve Points: 1. Looks [ It's Looks is awsum, Looks like a 40000 Rs. mobile.] 2. Display [ Its display is more than avg. But just avg. for those who used premium phones in past. No Over heating issues.. -Ve Points[Cons] 1. SD card is not very useful, I know it might be a software issue and Oneplus will tackle this. But this is really annoying how can they launch this phone before even fully check. In Settings> Storage the phone is not showing SD card. In file manager we can see SD card option. Its a 16 GB version and because there is not any option of default application storage and there is no option to copy application from phone memory to SD card memory. Then 16 GB phone memory is very low. Suppose u take a pic from phone cam it by default will go to the phone memory. Their is also no option to choose from phone memory or SD card memory. How can you save HD videos is 16 GB space? Ridiculous ! 2. There is no gallery option in this phone. Instead of gallery there is only one option, that is photos. In photos you will find photos taken from phone camera. Suppose you received a pic from Whats app then without gallery where will you find it ? I know there are some third party softwares in play store. Then what oneplus developers were doing? Amatures. 3. Camera: there is nothing special in this camera my 3 years Note 2 can take better pictures from this. But due to new tech like beauty, front camera can produce very good images. There are some sofware functions that improve camera quality otherwise camera hardware is not good at all. If you want to take a pic from primary camera with flash then forget this. Could you believe this there is no option of flash while taking photos. You have to switch on flash from home screen drop down menu then go to camera app with flash on then you can take photo with flash and donot forget to switch off the flash from the drop down menu after using the camera. 4. One thing more its not that important but still i want to discuss. From the gesture V i switched on the flash. But for my bad luck it's not went off again. i unlocked the screen manually and tried to switch off it from drop down menu but failed. Then i have to switched off the phone then it went off. Suppose if it remain on even after switched off. Then what will i do? 5. On the 11th nov in the morning i want to start my wifi from drop down menu but failed then i have to go in settings and had to switch it on from there.
5|First thing you would notice as soon as you pick up the phone is how incredibly thin and light it feels! The next thing you would probably notice is that it looks like a larger iPhone 5...which is not a bad thing in my opinion. The phone IS beautiful. The best feature of this phone is it's screen. It's the same AMOLED unit as the Samsung S5 (one word : gorgeous!). Deep deep blacks, low power consumption, and good sunlight eligibility. The battery is good if you compare it to an iPhone and poor if you compare it to something like the moto x play. Lasts me a day of heavy usage or a day and a half of moderate usage. Should suffice for most people. The charger is a 2A unit. Took me about 2h 5min for a complete charge from 0 to 100. Coming to the innards, the processor is a beast! Blows the snapdragon 615 right out of the water. Benchmarks between s801 and s615 easily prove this. Gamers rejoice! Front cam is great. Tried clicking a few pictures in low light conditions and they came out great. The rear camera had superfast autofocus. But do not kid yourself expecting pics like the oneplus 2. Na-ah! This is a budget device and for the price range perhaps a camera so awesome that most folks won't complain.... But if you are reading this, I'm guessing that you aren't most people (: Outdoor photos come out great during the day. Everywhere else average. I would rate the camera better than the moto g 3rd Gen, perhaps similar to the moto x play but definitely not better than the one plus two. Cellular reception on this phone is way way above average! I went to a couple of places with spotty network phones like the iPhone 6 moto g 3rd Gen one plus 2 and Sony Xperia z1 showed 0 signal strength and the one plus x was able to name decent call quality. Have had no issues with 3g 4g or dual Sim usage. Lastly, the phone comes with lollipop 5.1.1 and being a 32 bit device, it's jump to marshmallow CAN BE questioned. The manufacturer one plus has so far not made any promises about upgrading to marshmallow. Oxygen OS however does already provide many of marshmallows features. Oh and one last thing, the phone comes with absolutely NO BLOATWARE....but then so do all one plus phones :P
4|Looking at the specs and the price tags attached to it its quite a good phone. I just ordered this and am hoping amazon will do a great job on their delivery like they have done on most of my past orders. I just went through the list of negative reviews this phone has and apart from a few ocasional genuine complaints where people observed some heating and someone got a phone with a damaged screen, the rest just seem to criticize the invitee system that one plus is currently following. Secondly, some even compared this to the One Plus 2. Seriously guys, you can't compare a budget phone to the company's flagship. Thats just dumb. Overall, from the countless reviews and the youtube videos, where most of them seem to be singing praises for this phone (in the mid-range), you can confidently buy this phone. Again, if you aren't satisfied with the features of this phone (not only the hardware inside, but the looks as well) considering its price range, then expand your budget and buy something better. You'll easily find better phones if you even go as high as 25k. Or wait a few more days, there seem to be rumors of a new mi coming out as well.
4|Ordered this phone on Nov 5 th and received it on Nov 7th. Packaging was decent and fast. My feelings on the phone after coming from a nexus 5 1: it's a tad heavier. Nexus felt so light weight. But nexus has a plastiky back and this one comes with glass (onyx) 2: It has a same screen pixel density as nexus 5. (441 PPI). But one plus screen looks so awesome. Kudos to amoled. Maybe it's not natural color reproduction, but it looks so good to the eyes 3: UI is almost stock. Oxygen ROM is good. 4: if you use hardware keys, there is a small gap left in the screen before you reach the hardware key. So in order to press back button or recent key I ended up having to press two or three times. Maybe it takes time to adjust to the new system 5: when screen is on, WiFi connection speeds are good. But when it turns off something's happening. I left the phone to update all the playstore apps. But it's taking time to update if left alone. But if it is under use and runs in background it's downloading very fast. 6: There is an already applied screen guard on the phone. Good gesture oneplus... Also an transparent back cover is included. 7: upon removing the Sim cover on the bottom side there are three sets of three dots. It looks like rusted. :( Overall I'm happy with the phone. The finish is really good and has a premium feel. I have not yet tested it with games to see if it's overheating. But as of now the ui is as smooth as butter (yay 3GB ram) and no rise in temperatures.
4|I am very excited to get this phone. it looks absolutely stunning. Then phone is packed in a beautiful velvety box (Amazon packing could have been better to ensure extra safety for this delicate thing) Here is what comes in the box Phone charger & usb chord silicon back cover for the device simcard tray ejector The phone comes with a screenguard so be careful while removing the plastic cover over the screen. The touch is good 8/10 Camera Quality 8/10. (there is no loag while clicking photos, unlike in oneplus one). Battery Life 9/10 ( the phone was 80% charged when i received it and the battery lasted almost 20hrs (with all the downloading and phone set up) Cons: The 1st thing i noticed that the device was unable to recognise any SD Card, however after formatting the SD card on pc (NTFS Format), i could see the external storage under "FILES" option. But the "STORAGE" under "SETTINGS" is stil not able to read it. (hoping Oneplus will soon look into this prob) The hybrid sim slot is pretty complicated one sim has to be nano and other micro ? The company has made the phone very beautiful and reasonable in terms of price, however they should have added a headphone in the inbox accessories.
5|I received the device 24 hours ago and after using it for 24 hours my initial impressions are this is a very solid device. Beautifully built, as good as iPhone 4/4SS just not that much hefty. Oxygen OS is neat but needs to be refined and polished around corners. Device doesn't stutter but there is a frame drops in some animations. Waiting Oneplus to release Marshmallow based oxygen soon. As I switched from Windows phone to this phone inbuilt feature of dark/light themes and accent colors is familiar. LED notifications are customizable and nice. Camera front/back, sound output is strictly OK. Screen being AMOLED is amazing. Ambient screen feature doesn't work as good as Moto phones. Too bad the capacitive buttons are not backlit. Vibration motor is also not refined, keyboard key press heptic feedback is irritating. Charger is beautiful and earphones are missing. No NFC No OIS No Fast charging No Wireless charging, that's all reserved for flagships. Benchmarks show even after having SD801 and extra GB of RAM its slower that last generation of Samsung and HTC etc. Games and heavy apps runs smoothly and device gets bit warm.Battery is OK I watchwd entire Allstars match online streaming and enjoyed it on phone. I will suggest to get Moto X play over this for better support and reliability for other adventure freaks out there go get this phone. And one more thing Shelf is useless as of now!
4|This phone is really good. I used it so far for 2 days and these are the points I observed. I installed 56 apps by the way and no games. Most of the apps are my business related. Only one chess game. Just FYI, I used Moto G2 just before using this phone. Display: This is the eye catching feature of this phone. I'm really loving the display. Very crisp and clean 1080p display. Battery: Too early to comment. But I did note that the first use screen on time was close to 6 hours. So I guess it is definitely above average Design: I don't have to say anything. Lots of google videos. It is very good. Overheating: I just included this because few people mentioned it. They are either faking or got a fault device. I have not faced any issue. My apps are resource intensive too but the I have not experienced any issues. When phone gets charged, it gets warm. It happened to me on Moto g2 as well. Voice Quality: Very very very good. Signal reception: I get full 4G airtel signal. I moved around quite a bit today in Eastern Bangalore and signal, either 3G or 4G is almost full. OS: Android 5.1.1 is very clean. Coming from Moto background, I definitely wanted a close to stock android experience. OPX beats my expectations with some tweaks in stock android which were missing and I love those features. More updates later!!
5|There are more than 1700 reviews of this phone right now in Amazon India. Hope you know most of this phone. I will repeat most of them but will give you an idea how it is different from other phones. What's Good: 1. Price: It is under 20K. maybe the best one under 20K till date. 2. Screen: Its 5 inch FULL HD AMOLED. I am not comparing it Samsung's AMOLED, but it is quite good, bright and colours are deep. You will not be able to find any difference if you don't compare the same video/picture side by side with Samsung's AMOLED. 3. Design: It is 5 inch, handy and one of the best designed phone. Looks glossy because of its glassy back and the black colour and better designed than one plus one/two. Has curved edges. Can remind you of iPhone 4/4s/5/5s/Nexus 4. 4. Spec: Its Snapdragon 810 and 3GB of RAM. Nothing is slow in this phone. 5. Camera: It is 13MP/8MP. Good in daylight sucks in lowlight. What's Unique: 1. You don't have to go all the way to the top screen to see the notification bar, just swipe down from anywhere of the screen in the home screen the notification bar will open. This is really good when you have smaller finger, can's reach the top of the screen using one hand. 2. Mobile Data toggle. Unlike other phones with pure android you don't have to tap on Mobile Network and that redirecting you the mobile data setting and then turning of/on the data. Just tap on Mobile Network in the Notification bar. It will turn of/on the mobile data. 3. Hardware or Onscreen home screen buttons. You can use either of this and you can customize each hardware buttons on double tap/long press to a new shortcut which is really good. 4. Gestures: It is kind of unique but not that useful other than 'Double tap to wake'. Features. Other features are draw a O on screen to open camera and music navigation control. Would love to see Double tap to sleep feature in future updates. 5. You can change or turn of/on the location of each shortcut in notification bar. 6. Hardware buttons to switch between All/Priority/None Notification. Useful for corporate users 7. You can switch to dark theme and change the accent colour to 8 different colours like in Lumia, 8. LED notification is multi-coloured. It is useful from some of the apps like WhatsApp where you can define each colour for groups and contacts. 9. Comes with a screen protector and case. That just saved you 500 bucks. 10. Battery Bar, you can switch to percent/circle and default battery bar. You can hide the battery; I don't know who will dare to hide the battery bar. What's Bad: 1. Battery backup is not that good. I don't know how some of the reviewers finding it somewhat OK. I am hardly getting 3-3.5 hours of screen on time with LTE/HSPA (9 hours) and Wi-Fi (Rest of the day). I don't play games and just using the phone for WhatsApp/Facebook/Browsing/Music. 2. It does not have any gallery app, Use quick pic or any third party app 3. It is little light weight. Can give you a feel of a not that premium product. 4. Camera app is not that good. Have all the features but switching between all these features are not that good. Would love to see an update here. 5. You can't search for an app in the menu in the default launcher. Use the google search bar to find an app instead. 6. One plus Shelf: it is unique, appears when you swipe from the left to right in the home screen and I don't like it. You will be able to see weather which does not update quickly, frequent contacts which is also available in default dialler, frequent app which is fine and you can add any widget here which somewhat good. 7. Does not detect public WIFI which requires a sign in like in Airport/Café/Railway WIFIs. It is a bug. Hope to see this fixed in future updates.
2|My one plus x charger is not working, everything else is just fine
3|Battery is so damm bad.... No it even a single one day complete...
5|Great camera and good performance. Overall this phone is awesome..
3|OPX was unboxed and a new OS software was waiting. I applied the software over the air. I come from an HTC background. Pros of OPX: a) Screen clarity is good b) Oneplus X has a stable OS c) Screen size is perfect for what I was looking for Cons: a) 2525 mah is not enough. Period. b) Phone does not recognise the Sandisk microSD card. Software update is required in coming weeks c) No backlit buttons on the phone hardware. 38 months back my HTC gave had given this feature for the same price as of Oneplus X d) I still feel 3GB RAM and 32 bit architecture is not enough for Lollipop based OS. They should have gone for a 64-bit architecture with a better chip inside rather than the 801 they have opted for e) Ringtone volume not enough f) Speaker volume is limited g) Oxygen OS may not be even close to HTC Sense There are many things I found were good on HTC desire V 38 months back using icrecream sandwich OS.
4|Bought it for a friend and he's happy about it. The quality shows everywhere in this product. The only bad part is the battery life. This is more of a show off phone anyways. Its more like a status thing, I suppose :). But product is good.
5|Superb phone. Buy it and enjoy it. Size is very perfect and does not feel too big. Works pretty well for normal day to day routine work using 4g and WiFi. Looks like class above for the price we have paid. Display is nice and pleasing.
3|Promblems have occurred... Like charging...sd card n all.. But due to amazons easy replacement i.fot a new piece within 24 hrs...i would recommend it but at risk...the phone looks classy...n obviously camera is awesome.lollipop at its best
5|The phone is more than I expected. Brillant display, picture quality is good. Secondary camera is also good. The only problem with the phone is it slides easily on sloppy surfaces, should always be used with the rubber case it comes with.
5|best phone under this price range... superb built quality...has a premium feel to it The performance is excellent and even with many apps in the background the phone suffers no lag...really happy with my purchase and amazon's service
5|I purchased this phone a month ago and it works like magic, screen is very smooth, oxygen OS is working without any glitches. Delivery from amazon was very fast. Never found any issue in this phone. Highly recommend to purchase this phone
2|Battery is not what was expected. A very bad battery life. Charges quickly but at the same time drains off also very quickly. You just cannot afford to play the games because of the poor battery performance. Aprt from that..phonenis good.
5|Dayum! This phone is amazing! Amazing is not the word for it I wish companies start producing such amazing phones at this price point!! However when I received the box had multiple scratches on it sadly but the phone is worth every rupee
4|Great design... Pros: Led display Slim design Display size is perfect 5 inch Fast updates release for all bugs Cons Small battery Value for money Best for normal users not a gaming phone
5|This phone is fast as heck, multitasking is unbelievably fast and smooth and I'm just out of words to describe how amazing this phone it. Its an iPhone killa, Nexus killa, just any phone killa. Trust me this phone is all you really need
5|5 star to Amazon for timely delivery.. 4 star to the device.. 1 star less only because of bugy oxygen os.. Excellent hardware.. beautiful looking phone. . but bugy software makes this device lose out.. hope oneplus team sort it out soon.
5|This phone is awesome. I got this after invitation but when I received this phone, my excitement was over as my father was hospitalized. I need to sale this. Unpacked once & packed. Even not started yet... Ping me at rahuls2728@gmail.com
5|Amazing phone do buy this phone I have an invite for only Mumbai ones who stay here and for just ruppees 500/- if anyone interested contact me thru mail arpitgala82@gmail Loyalty and trust is must Fixed rate Also contact me on 8879978860
4|I got heated when upgrading. Did not notice any other issues yet.
5|Two invites available. NOT free. Contact on Singlanik@yahoo.co.in
5|Great phone!! The highlight of the phone is its front camera. You just can't stop yourself from taking selfies. Touch and display are jus perfect. I would easily suggest this piece of beauty for anyone whoz looking for a phone under 20k
4|The phone looks and feels premium to hold. Excellent build quality.? Call reception , wifi signal strength and voice clarity too are good. But I find the oxygen is laggy and buggy. Maybe they should have used cyanogen ?
4|I have 3 invites to share. Text me email id if anyone wants to buy the device on 9646006005 Now talking about the fon, its great at the price point it is offered. Display is great, fon looks even great, feels premium in hand.
5|I like the phone very much not faced any problem till now.its over 10 days after i bought the phone. No hanging problem and no heating issue. I liked the phone very much. Very nice phone. Goood quality camera and good battery backup.
4|Good and decent phone. Pros Slim phone with decent display. Apps opens like flash. Good call quality Cons Battery drains very fast though the screen brightness is at15%. Not worth for 17k.
2|Huge letdown in terms of performance, lo of lags even in small games of 50-150mb... Hope it's a software issue and oneplus fixes it soon... Loved the phone in looks people who buy brands like oneplus are expecting performance
5|Really prompt delivery by Amazon....Great....This phone is having majestic look....camera is nice....user interface is nice....as in the one day usage this phone is performing nicely....still it requires some time to evaluate fully....
5|OPX India Invites http://onepl.us/INC8-D3C5-EEE6-DA12 http://onepl.us/IN87-1E19-6924-F09C http://onepl.us/IN1B-7C8C-7F8B-3ADB http://onepl.us/IN1C-25A2-CFAB-8456 http://onepl.us/INCA-2D45-41A2-2093 http://onepl.us/INBF-83B4-EB2A-F5CD
1|Worst phone & customer services. Phone is launched 5th of November 2015. Within two month phone has create problem google account verification. Called so many times two customer care. But no positive reply. Last 5 days phone is dead.
4|Very good phone with best price..only thing that can be improved is there battery life..otherwise mist buy phone...I hope Samsung is listening...there overpriced phones are no match to apple..and so they should target general public..
5|Awesome phone at 17K, Amazing camera quality both rear and front, Sound is reasonably good,Light Weight ,sleek and looks awesome, the only drawback is using dual sim you have no option for memory card, you can only use one of the two.
5|Excellent product. I have 3 invites for One Plus X. Below are the invites. Please claim them before 27th Nov 2015 and use them within 48 Hrs of claim. 1) IN93-46F7-9D09-FA5A 2) INF0-33F5-4EB4-8207 3) IN96-BB6F-1E1B-518C
5|One Plus X ??? Awesome Phone And Features In the Price Band Of 17k.. Super Amoled Display is Awesome Oxgen Os And 3Gb Ram 13Mp Front 8Mp Secondary Awesome All over Must Have phone Nice Job One Plus....
4|Anybody need invite contact me| Email me-maheepsingh07@gmail.com
5|First of all amazing delivery speed amazon received before 24 hours.. Proof is awesome sleek n sexy phone nice battery backup go for it blindly just one thing one plus add mirror effect in default camera photos looks weird without it
5|I just love the phone! the camera clarity is superb! and the phone doesn't heat up at all even if 10 apps are open... Im not a vivid gamer. If anyone wants any one plus invites, email me on aditjee@aol.com. I have a couple of them...
4|Awesome phone in this price range. The camera is very fast and pretty good against what is given in the reviews. With that its blazing fast and quite stable. I would definitely recommend to buy this phone if this is your price range.
4|The phone looks great, though it reminds me of my old xperia J...the performance is smooth, good cam quality, decent sound output with good battery backup. Looking for a phone below 17k...hit the buy option on ONE PLUS X rightaway !!
5|Watch these videos to get an idea about the oneplus x - https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1fkocbr4lU_c2XbxMdlAN40d7x2q6PNb Amazing phone !! Thin and the size is a perfect it in the hand !! Dat Display is just freakin awesome !!
4|Awesome phone with pretty cool features at a great price. Only thing that lets it down is it's OS oxygen which is quite buggy. Hope the future updates will weave it's magic and make it an awesome experience to play around with it.
3|USSD Not Working.for prepaid coustmer after call end balance amount not showing. I have tried different sim but not working. and left side of top having some heating issue.camera and video works fine.tried all 3d games works perfect
5|Really awesome phone thank you one plus and amazon such a great product seeing forward for the accessories . Guys just go and buy the phone it's awesome Need some software update for minor bugs overall poora paisa vasull.
4|nice phone reminds u of 4s good screen and advantage of sd card
1|I received a faulty product, rear camera produces blurred pictures, and it heats like a iron box for using few minutes. Returning it, amazon service is amazing, they accepted for return as soon as i complained about the product, Thank you.
5|It's a great phone and you can buy it with your eyes closed, provided you have the invite to purchase it. ' Jokes apart this phone is great package for the price point. It's a looker and a performer,what more can you ask for.
4|Amazing phone, stunning looks, feels great in hand, superb finish. The only cons : If you wish to use dual sim then you have to compromise on the extended memory (Either one sim and a memory card, or two sims at a time)
4|The phone is good. Sharable invites for anyone wanting to buy. INC6-0230-D697-E500 INBD-C76E-65BB-01BC IN22-4501-5B04-9E03 Enjoy and if you utilize these invites, click the yes voting button below. Thanks
1|Read the One Plus Support forums before you buy any of the one plus devices! After sales support is non existant and if by chance your phone turns out to be faulty like mine,you will wait for months without replacement or repair.
2|thanks Amazon for quick delivery and return.Phone looks great but battery really bad..I have return this phone just because of battery.Battery last in 8-9 hour just normal use. I would not recommend any to purses this phone.
5|It's realy awesome product from one plus... And dnt look back to other models... Just pick it up and select it... No doubt at all... ... I'm fully satisfied with this product.. And the service provided by Amazon also very nice
4|Great phone so far am satisfied. good battery back up. camera good in lighted environment. Os is filled with its own customization but still its a little more freedom is needed. hope updates will cover all that up
4|So far it is good. Nice Camera (Front as well as back). However it heats up a little while starting the phone or charging but I guess that is the problem with every one plus phone. Glass body. Needs to be handled carefully.
5|I'm very happy ..to buy this oneplus x ....premium look,front camera is awesome but rear camera little bit disappointing may be after software update it is also be cool....lets c when v get next update to improve camera quality.
5|Hii I received an invite today. As I am not plqnning to use it as of now I hv decided to do a free giveaway. It will expire in 48 hrs since I hv already claimed it.So here you go IN2B-4A7F-1F2F-A0F7. Enjoyy and you r welcome :P
5|The awesome phone with fastest shipping facility via amazon.in
5|Excellent build quality. Gud specs. Really enjoying the phone.
4|The exteriors are amazing. It's light weight and very classy looking. Heating is a bit of a problem but snapdragon processors have had that problem since ever. Battery is the only negative on this package rest all is brilliant.
4|Amazing Cell phone built. Touch and feel Better than a Iphone. Metal and onyx good. no light in haptic buttons. camera is ok. customisation options ,not as much as one plus one or two.
5|Excellent Product By OnePlus Again, Premium Look ,lightweight, Even My friend is ready to Exchange it With his Iphone .Speaker Sound is in Quality/. Got it delivered within a day Thanks Amazon For A Small Sized Beast
4|I'd ordered my OPX exactly a week ago. First of all Amazon did an amazing job in delivering my phone in less than 12hrs of placing the order. Cheers guys! Wanted to write a review oly after proper stress usage to set a benchmark and also to challenge my initial thoughts of the phone. The OPX has definitely lived upto it's claim so far. Luv the freebies like the clear screen gaurd and silicone bumper that came included in the box. There are no earphones though. The charger's standard 2pin (without earth pin) provided is sturdy but the plug pin is ment to fit only onto 5A 3pin wall socket. This would be a slight problem for those (like me) who hav safety lock in their wall socket (for neutral pin). Nevertheless, one can overcome this by simply inserting a plastic pen in the neutral port. The dark mode of the phone is perfect for saving ur juice for a whole day. The Onyx Black is a fantastic design. The phone is extremely light and fits comfortably in my hand and is perfect for single hand usage. The RAM to CPU to storage to screen ratio is perfectly balanced. Color saturation is very rich but the whites feel slightly washed out. OTG functionality is working great but there is no option to unmount USB drives. This seems like a S/W glitch in the Oxygen OS. Eagerly waiting for the update to rectify it. The maps load lighting fast (Vodafone 3G) and location services are very accurate. Voice recognition S/W is quite adaptive. However, slightly slower than Siri (apple) in processing & and response time. No pre-installed bloat-wares, means happy end users (like me). The primary camera is fantastic outdoors, but begins to sweat indoors. The front camera is outstanding and very good in terms of (wide)-angle. Credits to the pixel density and amoled display, the performance of the OPX towards HD movies is magnificent. There is a slight increase in temp. while exerting the OPX to high graphics games but it seemed oly short-term. Loaded with features currently avaliable on high end models, the phone becomes the current best android phone under 20k. Design=5 Performance =4 Camera=4 Graphics=5 UI=3.5 Battery=4 Price=4.5
4|Using it for a week now. First of all would like to comment about delivery. Too early but not convenient. Before delivery no contact was made to me. Delivered at my office address when i was absent. Without informing delivered to another person. That's not right at all. Before delivery should contact the concerned person as the phone no is given for that. Face this problem several times now with Amazon delivery. May be the online payment a reason for that. It's better to opt for COD while ordering at Amazon. Now the mobile: No heating issues, Camera actually is very good, Looks is the best part with the OS almost stock android with some helpful customization options. These are the pros Cons: Back panel us slippery, need to use the silicon cover or any other cover to protect, Not as buttery smooth as a nexus. (I m coming from a nexus family). Because of the premium look there us always a temptation to remove the case Lastly better to insure it as early as possible. Very good mobile and a value for money. Should go for it if got an invite. I ve one to share too.
1|avoid it ....simply one line i got the invite from one plus but sadly says this is the worst phone i have ever used. i got the prompt delievery from amazon but the phone doesnt meet my expectation as i am the previous one plus one user. the phone is look wise solid but it doesnt means that perfromance wise it is better than one plus one pros : display is far behind than one plus one s' lcd display as it is amoled but the warm tone feels me irritate as i like white tone ..it is eye catchy and in night your eyes feels tired within half an hour . i will give 7 out of 10 for the display battery is very horrible within 2 hours my phone drains fully and it shows 4% and while i am charging for atleast half an hour and it shows fully may be this is the problem with oxygen os but i am irritating if the phone which has 2500 mah battery and only 5" screen size drains within 2 hours .there is no word to say about it . as i am installing latest oxygen os update but this is the same problem with the new update . i will give 1 out of 10 for battery perfromance sound : speaker is bottom facing but its not loud . it is very hard to listen the incoming ring when some background noice comes . plus while connecting it with earphone the out put is very dull it cant match with the one plus one s' output . also max audio is not intigrated with this phone so the sound out put on earphone is also like a cheap phone. i will give 5 out of 10 for sound output performance : lagging during initial use but day to day activity for nornal use of browsing and chatting not lags .but while playing candy crush saga it litterly lags . it cant handle the single game efficiently . due to this reason i will postpone to install the asphalt. if its snapdragon 801 aa cheapset and adreno 330 graphics phone.....u cant expect this kind of performance this kind of games easily runs on my coolpad dazen 1 which i bought for my daughter. i will give 5 out of 10 for performance software: there is nothing to say about the oxygen os . its buggy and there is no more for customisation compare to cm 12 and other custom rom available for one plus . please stay away till the custom rom is not available for this phone. for software i will give 5 out of 10 ya there is memory card slot is available and FM radio is good step from one plus but if phone doesnt perform than what will you do with memory and fm ? please stay away......from this phone ..
1|Surprised to receive a product where sim is not detected properly. Raised a return request on same day with Amazon.camera quality too is very average. Except for the display all others are below par compared with Oneplus one.
5|Beautiful Design and awesome performance. I will recommend it to buy. its a worth deal under Rs, 20000. Only one concern that at a time either dual sim will work or one sim+SD card. But already have sufficient space of 16 G.B.
4|One plus x is a very good phone Only issue is battery 2525mah is too low otherwise excellent in all aspects if ur use is average thn this is the best phone amazon is always amazing good service keepit up amazon team
5|The display is awesome with amoled display...The phone is sleek with metal edges which feels super premium. I have 3 invites to share,please do let me know if you need one...my email id is moses.prabhakarr@gmail.com
5|Without a doubt this is the best phone you can get under 25k. Go for it, do not hesitate. Previously I used the nexus 5 and surely I can tell the difference. This phone is solid, build quality is superb. Absolutely loving it.
5|Excellent performance and picture quality is extremely great. I like the phone... rest I got it 5 days back, so will come to know more in later stage, but till now I will say excellent choice in 15 - 20K range android phones.
1|Battery back up is too low.... Returned the product.....
4|i have invitation one plus x IN54-68F0-1F5E-EF19 valid 48 hr
5|Loving every bit my new one plus x. I used it for last 10 days. Performance, looks, camara everything is great bout this phone. Used samsung s3 for more than 1 year prior to this. This one has superior built quality and premium look. Go for it.
2|It has a major problem of heating and hangs using camera and other applications .. also little dissapointed on camera as it has some problem with it ... hence returning the device :( .. had waited for long for this device
5|Timely delivery from Amazon. Good design of product and value for money . We are happy with this product specification . Only constraint find is very slim phone design and need proper back cover to keep hand grip . Pradeep
1|1st 64GB SD card not show on storage, camera photos save in phone memory,2nd low network ,3rd heating normal use ,not show all file in SD card in gallery,NO light touch button,'flash r missing change mode in camera [ clear data then ok flash ]
4|After one month of use I can say it is a nice phone working so far good only con I would say is battery life because of lower battery capacity 252h. Camera photos come out good in good lighting. So far happy with the phone.
3|One Plus X received by expected date, Thanks to Amazon, I didn't use much , but secondary camera taking pics are coming to fat on the pic, primary camera is as expected, I tried all the options to set, still have the issue.
5|Ex phone-Htc desire x ds really awesome phone. No hangs til now after use of around 15 days with medium to high usage. battery backup is around 30hours with moderate use & periodical data kept on. camera is good.
5|Amazing phone with a reasonable price. It has all the features one must ever want in a phone. The only thing I disliked was that there was no earphones in the packaging. Other than that, this is the best phone perhaps.
5|What a pice I love this phone . I had a great experience it is a beast phone the best one plus device I have used .. Thankyou one plus to launch this phone I think everyone should buy it is the true flagship killer!!!!!this
4|(+) LED display, slim n sleek, performance is really good, i phones cannot near to one plus x display. (-) UI update no support till date from one plus, If it is done, then it is 100% class mobile to buy in the market
5|all other features are excellent but what i miss most is in the 'languages' section. i wish and want Punjabi/Gurmukhi language to be included so that i can view and respond to my FB and other social media in this language.
3|Phone is good. Looks is brilliant. Its sleek and classy. But its already giving me hanging issues and also after nokia, i am quite disappointing with its camera quality. These are the only two issues I have with the phone.
5|Very slick design and very beautiful phone!! As per the price and the technological point of view it would still rule over the other companies and OLED screen for Rs. 17000 is just amazing. I'm blown away with this phone.
5|I got the phone its just amazing...everything is perfect.....if someone wants to buy an INVITE from me , CALL ME or WHATSAPP me on 8107550388 or EMAIL me on my id rishabjainrocks@gmail.com (invite will expire on 12/11/15 )
4|I need oneplus x by 31 Dec... N don't hav invite help me out
5|Very nice phone, very minimum pre loaded apps. RAM and processors good enough for fairly heavy games or watching movies. Battery is also decent. Comes with a very useful back cover and screen guard as part of the package.
5|Delivery was superfast and the product arrived the next day. The build quality is really good and the display is very crisp. The phone uses nano sim and I haven't had an opportunity to use the phone provider service.
5|Its one the best feeling android budget handsets with the speed of one plus one and click much better pics. 128Gb and android 6.0 just sweeten the deal. if you want an good ihpone feeling android handset go for it :D
5|Best phone to buy at this price Feels great in hand. Oneplus has created beauty Fast and fluid Oxygen OS Great camera both Best display at this price range No nfc and buttons are not backlit
5|I took a chance. I bought Oneplus X instead of Moto X Play. I had doubts but what I had heard and seen on the internet it was one hell of a well build phone. I received the product within one day. The Oneplus X box is beautiful. I know at some point I have to throw it but it is a keeper. Good material, well packaged, it never showed signs of 17k phone. Bright red and white. Respect for the team at Oneplus to have given so much thought of making the customer feel proud of owning this product even before they have opened the box. Then opened the box. The phone, charger, cable, manual and the sim tray ejector. Each of them have been packed in a manner that shows respect to the customer. The material quality of paper used is very good and most importantly very well designed. I doubt any company selling products in India cares about such things because we Indians don't value such things. Personally I do. Attention to detail in everything shows how highly the company thinks of you as a customer. For some of you all this would be useless, but you'll get to know everything about the phone from other reviews, so I thought I'll put in something others were missing out on. Thanks. Btw, the phone is piece of art. With the metal band and glass back, it is premium no matter how you look at it. Worth every penny!
5|OnePlus has been in the news for its flagship phone. With OnePlus X, they have given their best budget phone which has premium looks, specs are very high-end. Its been 3 weeks am using this and no complaints so far... :)
5|Privacy and Legal You're invited! Log into your OnePlus account to claim this invite. OnePlus X OnePlus X "IN83-672F-E0AF-2296" Claim by 02d 19h 48m 48s Onyxxx
1|Please don't buy one plus x bcoz their is problem while take video footage sound is not so clear as others mobile last night 31st Dec at goa I got problem over loud sound can't clear best is Samsung a8 is far better
4|This is really a very good phone. It's a premium looking and fancy device with a good performance. Good if you like looks of a phone annd compromise on camera. Camera is disappointing. 13 MP is just a number...seriously.
5|Finally the wait is over and I have the most beautiful phone in the world(according to me) in my hands. The box contains back cover and the mobile already has a screen guard :-) . Will give a total review soon.
4|Sound output is good but not loud... Battery capacity need to be increased... 2nd sim doesnt wrk after inserting sd card... Display quality is best in class... As it is amoled Price shoud be 15000...
5|Loved everything about the phone, the premium build, the beautiful display, the great camera, the back cover and scratch guard already on display, games running well, no lag in usage. No cons yet after a month of usage.
3|One plus X is really the best in market for its price... All the features in it is really amazing. But battery is too weak :( and the rare camera is 13MP but still the video and the picture quality not been impressed...
1|i just ordered and got, one plus,x is anyone facing mic issue???its very irritating but on whatsapp cal and vibes works perfectly fine, and no call recorder app is installed...pls let me know..or else i ll replace ....
2|Very much disappointed with the battery life...rest all OK.
4|Anyone need invite contact me at preetam.cooldude@gmail.com
5|Just the best phone ever awesome performance I love it
5|Beautiful phone. Feels premium like a 50,60 thousand rupees phone. Works flawless. 3gb ram makes it fast. Heats up if we use while charging, or play games. The oxygen os needs to improve, few things missing. New updates will fix things. The flash option in the camera will be missing so everyone go to the cam app in the settings and clear cache it will appear. Only thing I don't understand is that why can't they provide earphones for a Rs17,000 phone. Good phone go for it.
3|Build quality is good, screen is good, feels good while operating, the only lack in the phone is its camera. It has an average camera. Battery lasts upto a whole day. So its worth buying if you have less use of camera.
4|Nice mobile. good RAM management and phone looks sexy.Front camera is awesome. Back camera still needs to be imporved when compared to Mi4i. Lot of customizations given by One Plux X. Overall product is Good.
4|Clear and bright display, no lag, slim body, good battery backup, premium design ... But camera is poor, even under good lighting conditions pictures are not clear, too much grainy noise.. Overall good for this price.
5|This phone is for Pro Android Users , what no one can match the features of this phone for this price I have already ordered 1 ... And I have got a invite left to be used if you want contact me on joviton.007@gmail.com
5|One plus x is the best phone at its price. Absolute pure phone for daily use. Downloaded n Installed 168 apps on 2nd day itself. Its all works fine. Little bit heating issue near camera. After heavy use for more than 20 min.
5|I got this phone today. It's awesome.. But my oy concern is camera.. When I go to camera its not showing full screen.. Can anyone tell me how to make it as full screen.. Apart from that phone is awesome.. Go for it..
5|The best phone thats perfectly designed n fits in my hand after MOTO X(1st gen).. go for it if u consider to buy a smartphone under 20k... its worth for it.. :) ping me if u need a invite... gotta shareable invite :)
5|Last gen snapdragon 801 is very fast 3gb ram is great for multi-tasking micro sd support is good addition But there is no NFC support and no fingerprint reader which is available in other similarly priced phones
5|Its an amazing phone. Have been using it over a month now it is superb. Display is very clear you will enjoy watching movies. Camera is very nice but not that much as compared to OPO. Best phone in this price budget.
5|awesome design by designer. As compare I phone 6 ONE PLUS X is best deal in 17000/-, but in one plus X NFC accessibility not found. overall very nice phone with different look. thanks amazon to given invitation.
5|I am happy with phone looks and performance except camera.
5|OnePlus 2 (India) IN47-3807-D845-C0DA Claim within 3 days!
5|Invite giveaway for free . Mail -bhargavayash.yb@gmail.com
5|Awesome phn never seen this kind of look at this price tag
1|The cellphone is not able to receive calls. It remains in silent mode. In set up volume control for ringtone does not operate. I do mot want to return the phone. Amazon should guide me to the nearest service center.
4|I have been using this for a month now and I have no problem. Battery, camera excellent. Slippery and catches finger print on both sides but glossy finish is awesomely black. Best for those looking for 5inch screen.
1|Do not buy. Common app Google Hangout itself is not working properly. Got the phone within a day after getting the invite from Amazon but within an hour discovered Google Hangout issue and planned to return it back.
4|I've been using this phone for 48hrs now and I have to say it looks amazing . Build quality is top notch , something of an iPhone 4 with android and a larger screen. I own a number of devices and got this one too being it was very cheap, not disappointed except for 2 places. 1) The processor is a snapdragon 801 AA. It isn't AC. So basically it's a budget processor . Don't compare it with the one on phones like the Z2. The games on this phone lag like hell but everything else is super smooth. 2) music and speaker quality are so so ... you can live with it but not on par with stuff like a nexus 5 or a moto gp But as I have other phones to play with these issues are not much of a concern for me . Love the phone to bits! Just for its razor sharp display, lag free ui and it's design
5|Great phone, as expected by OnePlus. Amazon too did a great job in delivery. A great smartphone under 20k !! Lemme tell you..it has the best price to performance ratio. No problems till now..its been over a month.
3|Experience is good. Design - 8 Quality - 7 Screen - 9 Camera - 5 Performance - 7 Battery - 6 Could have been better for the hardware. Expecting better software update.
5|awesome phone...killing look and specs...Liked it a lot...Only annoyed as it does not include HEADPHONES..!!! Otherwise Superb...!!! Camera quality is upto the mark, but not have that wow factor..!!! Go for it..!!!
1|the phone is nothing special...it's just a normal phone that looks really good without the cover on, but you have to have a cover on because of the glass front and back which might break on the first drop without a cover. the 3GB RAM seems fascinating but the performance of the phone is also nothing special, it lags in several games with lots of frame drops. the huge game, Fifa 14 played nicely but there are frame drops in a light game like subway surfer,so I'm not able to decide if the performance is good or not..it's just weird. The cover provided does not fit pefectly on my phone but fits perfect on my friend's phone, so that's like an inconsistency in manufacturing. I wish I could return but the return window closed before I could make up my mind to return it, so I'm stuck with this phone for another year or so.. :/
4|I want to gift this phone to my sister on her birthday. Please share with me if you have an extra invite. Please contact me on shah.vertika@gmail.com Please help. Thanks in advance
5|Awesome delivery by amazon only one day that's super fast.... Comin to mobile its beauty and beast..... Awesome mobile Awesome packing Looks great Feels royal in hand....
4|Switched from OnePlus One because this was smaller & more palm-friendly, and turns out it was a good reason to switch - pretty good, though Oxygen continues to play truant with my car's in-built Bluetooth on & off
5|I got a few invites:- Date - 2nd December 2015 1. INC6-242C-CDB0-7DF9 (Claim within 3 days) 2. IN00-0EBB-6ACF-89CC (Claim within 5 days) 3. IN92-E47B-CF26-4519 (Claim within 5 days)
3|Phone looks good. Battery worst. Heating often.
5|Have invite, need invite? reach out at shyam620@yahoo.com
4|I have one plus x invite any body want call Mr 9894697456
5|I found the phone to of an excellent build, with an amazing response and smooth operation. A lot of people have already mentioned a lot of good things about the phone but I do have few thing which I am not very happy about. I have only used this phone for about 4 hours when I write this review. 1. The Visual IVR does not work on this phone. I am not sure if this is specific to Airtel (which I use) but I think there should be an update sometime to fix this. 2. You will feel cheated a bit when you realize that there is only one speaker at the bottom of the phone even thought you see that there are two slotted sound outputs. This is sad because the pictures are the first thing that temps the user to think about the phone and most of us will realize such shortcomings only after we get the phone. Thanks, Rajan.
4|Except the overheating issues while using some applications... OPx is very good... Good look and feel... Superb performance... Also, Slight lag during the unlocking is lil bit annoying, but overall its good.
4|Sleek, fast, neat...but has its downside... Auto switch from WiFi to mobile data is not seamless and at times needs to be rebooted. Memory card auto save option unavailable, all files needs o be manually moved...
3|Hugely dissatisfied with the product... Battery backup not at all good No ear phones provided Costly for 17k price tag Will see the performance for few more days and revert back...
4|Hats off to Amazon! Got delivery in 12 hours. Love the look and design. The only negative thing about the phone I feel is the camera when used for taking pictures at night. Rest it's totally worth the price.
5|Unparalleled delivery by Amazon within 24hrs. Regarding the phone, it's a charm to use. Brilliant finish, beautiful full HD display and a beast of a phone for its price point. Hands down the best value for money.
5|guys do not think twice for buying this phone, iam very satisfied and this is something greater than my expectations.. so please go ahead and purchase this amazing phone which is your companion anytime anywhere.
5|Even they have removed the flagship concept still the best budget phone and worth for the price. Some small bugs to fix. Hope it will come with the updates. Still, love it and useful. Simply worth for the price.
5|Amazing phone... Good features... But slow a bit of times which may be for first day use. Camera not too good Screen is awesome and the phone overall is very stylish and the best you can get under 20k
4|Awesome phone with superawesome performance. The look and feel is great. The shiny and smooth back is good and the touch is gentle. But there is slight heating during charging but the phone is worth the money!!!
5|Awesome product. Really love the design and the price is also very good for the product offered. The display is very good and the added benefit is SD storage. The camera is also top notch for 17k.
5|Recently bought this product. Excellent looks and build quality. feels more like a premium product. A new feature shelf is introduced and excellent front camera. Overall a great buy at this price.
5|Exceptional product with exceptional design. The performance is great. No problems detected initially. It's an excellent device combining both feel as well as wonderful features. very close to a flagship killer
4|Top Notch! The AMOLED display is nothing like I have seen before. Need not say much about performance since it rocks a Qualcomm SD801. Enough said. Will update as I have just started using it as a daily driver.
4|Amazingly super fast phone. . Everything is fine except few things. 1. most of the phones have search option for apps, here it's not. 2 camera display size is not full screen size unlike other smart phone.
3|I just received this friends - Invite : IN10-C927-7BCB-6111 Claim it at : https://invites.oneplus.net/claim/IN10-C927-7BCB-6111 Hope this helps you. :-) 16th Dec 2015
5|I loved the product and it reached my expectations... like performance, gadgets, Display, LED notification color, Light weight, slimmer than ever seen, Front CAM was fab! finally, its good to buy Oneplus X
5|* Better than Moto X Play. * Magnificent design. * Very owesome to operate in hand because of glass body. * In gaming - never lags, smooth going and great performance. * Awesome selfie cam.
3|Battery should be good....Else everything is perfect :)
4|I have one oneplus x invite. Let me know if anybody want
4|Its a awesome phone good flow of software no lags battery life is good and fab display only one complaint about its camera software it sticks and the hardware can support 4k but the software doesn't allows it.
5|It is one of the best budget smartphone right now.. It has fullfilled all the expectations dat one can imagine in smartphone under this price range. And thanku amazon for letting our hands on such a great phn.
5|Build quality is very nice... Stylish and classy... Slim metallic finish both front and back.. Just like iPhone looks wise... Happy with the purchase and would definitely recommend to others as well.
4|Phone's performance is exceptional. Every aspect of this device is very good. Only drawback of this phone is its low internal memory. OnePlus should have boost this device with at least 32GB of internal space.
4|IN92-E44E-12A1-03BE IN6F-83EC-93A8-CDF4 IN4D-D4DF-9449-9D00 Free invites for anybody who needs them. Will update with a review soon. Till now I'm having an awesome experience with the OnePlus X
4|haven't used the product to its fullest till date so I wont be able to comment on its technicalities but yes it looks promising. The packaging was good and in the price this piece is coming, it sure is great..
4|Thts really very nice, but i m Apple user so sm whr android nt satisfied me but all over this phn is just awsm betr thn to any of samsung phn till the time is one plus stick on price as well as Apple products
1|Its too much hanging. The calls are not audible to the other side. While using an application, it comes automatically to the main menu. Immediate action should be taken. Its only 3 months.
5|Three OnePlus X invites up for grabs. Valid till 2PM on 08-December http://onepl.us/IN16-B5CD-C871-394B http://onepl.us/INBD-6243-9FCA-E2DE http://onepl.us/IN55-C2E5-4947-A55E
3|heating issue. battery backup max 6 hours camera average UI is not something u'll fall in love with.. I had an LG l80 and trust me its ui is far better dan one plus x sound is just average
5|worth a buy ! forget all the expansive phones ....they really dont make a difference in usage other than the cost ...just go for this one just one question WHY IS THE DISPLAY DULL AND COLORS SATURATED ???
3|I was using iPhone since 3 years and this is my first and the only time I m using an android. I will say that android is useless buggy and has a lot of issues but this phone is good. Sometimes I have to restart the phone for some bugs to be resolved. Build quality: better than other hiend models of Samsung HTC.(if you can spend about 25 then one plus two and moto x are a better option) Working: smooth, some times arbit things happens, needs to be rebooted everyday at least once. Screen: not too big, deep colors, great resolution Battery: backup is low, in normal use I have to charge it in the morning 9am then it's empty by 12pm. Mic : needs improvement, the other person complains about less volume Speakers : not too loud not too low they are fine
4|very nice phone, camera quality is beter features are very good one plus is a leading mobile company. i feel very charm to use this phone and amazon delivered this item as their best. thanks amazon
5|I am writing the review after using this phone for appropriately 2 months.it is just the best phone in this range. Only one thing that they can work on it is the loud speaker output is little low.
3|Given the camera specifications..the quality of the images are not upto the mark...the speakers at the base are meant to be dual..however, you hear the sound only from one part which is quiet frustrating....
5|It heats a little and the battery should have to be improved.... Camera is v. Good but struggles at low light...games work excellent for mortal combat 5. Which struggles on most other phones at this range...
4|This phone has a good sound and camera quality. Touch is excellent but disappointed by the battery back up. It dose not hang like other smart phone. Giving it four star because it has no headphones with it..
5|Amazing looks with good config at the Price Offered. Below is the Active Invite anyone eager to buy use it with 24Hrs. Expires in 01d 00h 44m 22s INE0-8B6D-2519-0970 Use this invite
5|what a great product at its price , looks premium performs topping all smartphones upto 35000. i have an extra invite for plus x as well as plus 2 please whatsapp on 8468870848. or call me on 9999114556
4|IND6-2DD3-05B6-B3D3 Use it if u want !!! Enjoy !!!
5|I want to buy oneplus x. anyone got an invite to share?
5|Whoever need invite email me at zainarihant20@gmail.com
4|I'm using one plus x but unfortunately I'm not getting alert msg after call ended and using internet I have contacted Airtel cc but they said all the option are activated ,is their any options in our phone?
4|It delivers what it promised... Been using it for a month now and faced no problems... I reduced a star as Earphones are not provided with the handset. This is something that a lot of users need
5|The phone is extremely nice.Initially had the problem with SD card but eventually it got resolved automatically(maybe with new update). The performance is awesome and battery life is very decent.
5|Best smart phone at this price,just one issue is that instead of duo speakers only single speaker is working.otherwise the phone is very nice.camera quality is awesome,just go for it guys,value for money!!!
4|Oneplus x is absolute smart looking phone good features and price is also Pretty decent feels premium to hold got delivered yesterday amazon really doing great by introducing oneplus products to India
4|The OnePlus X is an Awesome phone, That display is so gorgeous combine that with its performance and Wow I'm impressed. I have a invite for the OnePLus X , if interested WhatsApp me on 9767316099
3|Used from last month.....overall good....but obly problem is battery n sd card problem....overall speed n display are very good..........may be this price is much expensive... And also charge bery speed..
3|Good quality material. Display can be sharper. Camera not great. Good processor. Ram does kick in. Apps work smoothly. Good buy for the price but not for serious photographers who use their phone to click.
4|How do I get last call charges and internet usage charges, because I have cut my micro sim to nano sim after that I am facing this problem. Please help me a way to get of this problem. I am using idea sim.
4|Hi guys, its awesome phone in this budget but its little slippery due to presence of glass on both sides.I mostly don't use case n covers.So is there a tempered glass parotector for back side??pls reply...
5|Phone is amazing.. Well designed... Dual speaker at bottom helps gud ringing .. Very handy... Very stylish... Worth buying.. Except some network issue wen u switch to 3g setting.. Need to update it asap...
5|Got the phone on the first day.Ordered on 5th Nov and received on 9th Nov,Superfast shipping by Amazon. Build: The phone Build feels solid and the screen is amazing. Software : Android at its best.No double calender apps,camera apps,messenger apps. Everthing is stock. Nice oxygen os features like: Dark theme Open/close menu Recents Search assistant Turn off screen Open camera Voice search Open last used app Open Shelf Camera: the front camera seems good,Took some pics,very good in good light.Expecting a good low light performance as well. Accessories:Came with a pre installed screen guard wow,Amazing.Which company gives that?? Overall a value for money phone.
3|I bought one plus x on 2nd January 2016 and using it from last two days ,it is good device you can get in 17k I have three invite.If any body is interested then contact me on jitendrasinghsodha@gmail.com
4|had an invite for one plus x have already bought myself and wish to share:- IN47-5D6F-5A51-2CCD recd on 23rd nov IN25-71E0-3377-A0BD recd on 27rd nov 1st u have to claim it then u can use it on buy page
4|Worth the wait and all those tiring procedures to get a hand on its invite....same daydispatch and lightning fast delivery by Amazon ...camera and the looks .seen nothing like this ..ever ..truly no words
5|Wonderful phone I rs design and display and thin and slim and metal piece is wonderful... And proud to use this fasting phone. One problem is there no different Indian language are shown in accept Hindi..
1|over all it was bad experience second sim was either sim or memory card totally discouraged me and when ever we are talking continously for 15 minutes the mobile was getting heat even using face book....
1|My phone is getting heated up while charging and also while playing. I'm not sure if this is expected behavior of this phone other this is a good phone. (Chala vedi ekkuthundi bhaiyya charge lo unnapudu)
4|I had been using since November, very good performance and touch sensitivity is too good, it is a premium product. But only problem i had faced is charger, you can change it in one plus service center
5|Excellent Design. Stylish look.Smooth performance. Great picture quality. Getting heat while charging and in continuous usage. Not Having Headset in the Box is not fair. Value for Money...
4|Very good phone. Nice speed, amazing battery life. But video recording is disappointing that is why 4 stars.OS is also sometimes too smart. Not even ask a single question for deleting image from gallery.
1|battery life is not at all good it will come 4hrs only
4|Superb Phone. Awesome. Better than Any phone till now.
5|Mail me at ad99mails@gmail.com for an oneplus x invite
3|Bought a One Plus X. Pros 1. Excellent display and responsiveness. Its mostly stock Android. 2. Frequent Apps and Contacts, == very good. 3. Button for muting notifications 4. 4G works , decent speeds! 5. High quality Pics, Key improvement areas. 1. They don't have Gallery App! 2. Call quality, reception etc. while roaming is bad. My other phone has better reception with the same carrier at same location. I wish all the smartphone guys don't forget the basics. The phone should reliably work for voice calls, that should be top priority. 3. Battery life - at most 1 day, if you are driving or roaming, please carry a battery pack!! 4. No headphone, you have to buy your own. 5. Very basic cover...
5|Its amazing... I bght ds one mnth bfre vry good perfmnc, good batry life, camera evrythg suprb... I dnt face any issues til nw... Display ? I strongly recommend to buy this and it ll nvr dispnt u...
4|Appearance is good,spec also good compare with other competitor models, more precaution required to handling, connecting with network is difficult some times, cant use sd card when u use two nano sims,
4|Good phone. Great look. Design is perfect and very handy. There is a problem with heating. When u use heavy apps the phone gets start heating and in few moment u will think it gona blast.
1|very very bad battery backup. Drain with in 5-7 hours of normal use. Even in no use battery drain 20 to 30% with in 3 hours of without use. Pls fix this. I bought this device on 28th Nov.
5|The phone is simply amazing ..used for almost 7 days &then writing this review ....specs are great & the looks are just amazing but the only problem can be that it is slippery & no earphones
5|Ordered it today. Looks promising. Will share the review after using it after 10th November. I loved everything about this phone. But the on the camera interface there is no flash option. Any solutions?
5|Amazing device. Will not disappoint any average user for the next two years for sure. After that anyone can just root it and extend its life for another year or more. It's in the nexus league for sure.
4|Phone is Good. Sleek and handy. but it does hang a bit sometime. faced issues while picking calls few times but its fine. dont play much on the phone so as of now there is not heating issue faced.
4|I placed 1+x order with 1 day delivery, it was in my hands just in 6 hours..amazon delivery amazing..for the mobile, it's value for money..camera/battery could have been better, otherwise i'm satisfied
4|INC0-D467-3426-214B Free Free Free Claim your invite at http://onepl.us/INC0-D467-3426-214B This invite is valid for 48 hours after claiming. To use it, register or sign in with your OnePlus Account.
1|Got this mob on without reading review then i felt i did huge mistake n fall into great ddisaster heating battery drains screen blockout totally one plus team has to review eeverything on this handset
5|Wonderful product I love the feel of glass and metal on my hand. it is smaller than oneplus one but as powerful as the One. The slim and soft feel makes a proud owner of the same
5|Loved it. It has very sleek design and display is amazing. Fast and smooth working, does not hangs. Battery life is also good. Camera is very good. Clear crisp pictures in low light as well.
1|travelling person so opened this box after 2 weeks ...... found the camera and one charging cable to be totally dysfunctional........ Amazon if u could help me replace this product or solve this issue
5|The phone has a very good build quality and specs are also good. The battery should have been a bit bigger but no problems. Delivery by Amazon was also fast received the phone the next day I ordered.
3|WTF I Bought 2 days Ago And Now Price IS Down By 2000
4|It's cliam invite any one can use IND8-8E6B-0E69-CAAB
5|If any one want invite mail me on slovep123@gmail.com
1|Price reduced by 3.5k. I wish I had waited for a week to buy this. I do not expect to return the difference amount but as a goodwill provide screen guard + cover / headphone / another set of charger
5|Amazon rocksssss, order yesterday and got delivery today morning amazing delivery speed. Awesome phone as well, it competes with all the A listers, few things lack but at this price this one is epic.
1|The battery is not working properly. It gets discharged in 4 hrs after full charge. It is less than 2 months since I have bought the phone. the customer service says that dont entetain such requests.
5|Awsm mobile. Rear cam is a bit unsatisfactory bt front one is superb. Battery life is a thing to worry above all. Display and looks are @ peaks. I recommend to buy it. Ul hv a good one. Worth buying.
3|ITS A GOOD PHONE BUT WITHOUT A INSTRUCTION MANUAL ITS SOME WHAT UNEASY TO HANDLE A NEW PHONE & WITHOUT SOME ACCESSORIES IT IS A PHONE WITH SOMETHING MISSING (NO HEADPHONES BUT RADIO OPTION IS THERE)
4|My daily driver.one of the best looking phones you can hold in todays market but but but not the best performing phone not even in the price bracket .so before buyng have a look atleast the reviews .
5|Super fast delivery.. Thank you Amazon.in.. Super fast phone.. Thank you OnePlus.. OnePlus One was by far the best value for money phone in the market.. The OnePlus X just ousted it..
5|A very good phone at this price.. Great Phone Looks: Very good looking, slim, handy and very classy. Hardware: No lags till now with normal usage. Camera: Very good in daylight and above average in low-light. Front cam has a 8MP which does a good job while taking selfies. No Heating issues. The Phone would get a bit warm when playing high graphic games continuously like real racing , Asphalt etc. Pros: Smart gestures to switch on/off the flash light, music controls, camera etc. Slim Translucent case included in the box which is of a very good quality. Cons: Very minimal Pre-loaded apps. Camera lacks pre loaded modes like macro, night shots and portraits modes. No earphones included in the box.
5|Best phone with best features . oxygen os is somewhat buggy but its butter smooth. Everything is perfect oneplus is doing a great job . if i want to suggest u can buy this phone without any thinking
3|Phone crashed in the first week of use and lost all the pics taken. Generally happy with the looks and camera, phone seems to hang up sometimes when in standby mode and is unable to unlock. Average.
4|design is well battery is OK for me rear camera is good but not great but front cam is really nice performance is buttery smooth call clarity is awesome light weight hand & pocket its fits perfectly
5|really amazing product, amazing delivery by amazon. i recieved product within 2 days. AMOLD display is awesom. perform is very good. but i got some lags when playing games otherwise super.
5|Yet another masterpiece from oneplus's closet. Awesome specs even better price point. And this time the design leaves you spell bound. Kudos oneplus. Now I have all three products. One two and the X
2|This phone hangs, with no gallery option its difficult to browse pics n videos, even the 3gb ram seems worthless. One plus needs to release a better software n update for the phone to work smoothly
4|It's look wise awesome, both sides gollira glass, camera quality fantastic, speed 3 ram, very good,all is well but I can give its 5 star but there is problem in Indian Gujarati language can't read,
5|Delivery by Amazon is really good. Very nice mobile. Met my expectations. I thought the viewing angle was a bit of low side but the picture quality is good. Back cover with the box is very helpful.
5|Really nice phone as reported to me. Since there is no delivery point Agartala, otherwise I could have buys go me. Except battary backup everything is superb. Camera is 5/5, Display 5/5, Looks 5/5.
4|Great design, great looks and good performance. The OS/SW is not quite up to the mark. After the first update, system does not recognise micro sd card. Overall good buy for the price.
5|Screen: 5.0 inches Full HD Super Amoled Active Matrix OLED display. (which is better than IPS Display) Processor: Quad-core snapdragon 801 clocked at 2.3 GHz., Adreno 330 GPU. (better than other phones) RAM: 3 GB DDR3. Camera : 13 MP 4128 x 3096 pixels camera with phase detection autofocus, LED flash, Geo-tagging touch focus, face detection, panorama, HDR. Video 1080p@30fps, 720p@120fps Secondary 8 MP Storage : 16 GB internal with 128GB sd card support. It is a Dual SIM OR a Single SIM + SD Card. Pixel Density is perfect for crisp sharp Looks really Great Performance: Looking for reviews, it should be better... But I am waiting for the invitation code...
5|The Best one ever i have bought . I got the delivery in 20 hours ,that was the fastest delivery ever i have seen on an online shopping . When i unboxed the product the looks were very much appealing ,the onyx black is really awesome . After i rebooted the device and started with all basic things like name the device ,gestures ,etc ... it immediately asked for an update on oxygen latest version.the camera quality is very awesome with both back and front .The speed of the phone is amazingly good . The battery life is pretty good though it has 2525mah the life which it gives equals with 3000mah undoubtedly on a 3G usage . I have been using it for the past 10 hours . I would say the best ever at this price . Go for it !!
4|Email to bhanudas.com@gmail.com for onplus x invites
5|Got few invites. Let me know anyone looking for one.
5|INA1-FAD5-B583-C9B4 used it in one today....grabe it
5|Recently bought this phone.. Everything is superb about this phone, you won't get a better thing in this price, I am giving away my invites, anyone interested can call me on +918107626725,cheers!!
5|Fantastic phone! Moved from Samsung Galaxy S4 to OnePlus X, I should say OPX is a much better phone. Better performance, no unnecessary bloatware, quick fixes for issues and a much sturdier phone.
4|Phone is working good only problem I faced in 3 days usage is that there is no option SD card showing in Storage. That seems to be software glitch. Battery backup and other stuff are working good.
5|Just receive the phone The display quality is good , Camera quality is also good.the battery life of opx is 1 day and it' s not bad .sound are not so loud but phone feels great in hand .
4|It's amazing how much the manufacturer has managed to fit in at the price point. Perfect for students or for people looking for a good looking, functional, almost high-end spec phone on a budget.
3|The touch key's on the phone do not have back light enabled (Basic Requirement) by default disabled in current software version and there is no option to remove Google search bar from home screen
5|this is a beast.... a very good phone in the market at this price after a long time... i woud suggest people with an invite to buy this phone and experience something totally different and classy
2|I have received my phone today. Look wise very good, performance good but my Back camera is not working . I have paid premium price , didn't expect a faulty phone. It should be tested well.
1|Please stop Manufacturing such kind of delicate products like one plus X. We need a mobile not a soft delicate toy. on the 27th day of buying this mobile the power button is gone. And the worst part the service center people dunno how to make it. Also the camera flash does nt work while taking pics. It only works while taking videos. And the most disgusting part. Video recording is so bad. Voice is very unclear. Itz broken. Guys please go for some good stable well known brands. Don't trust these new brands. It only looks good. Thats all. Very Delicate Product. Tempered Glass and Back Cover are not enough to protect your mobile. You need Iron Made whole body covered case to maintain these mobile. Trust me.
5|I ordered this mobile the very first day it was launched and got it delivered the very next day. The packaging was typical One+ except that it was white on top and red on bottom. There is no denying that the OnePlus X is the best looking smartphone in its class. The best part is it comes with a silicone case and screen guard standard. Pros: 1. Looks great. 2. Solid build. 3. Crisp display. Cons: 1. Back panel is a fingerprint magnet. 2. Invite only (As per the company they will remove invite system in a month) Allows bootloader unlock out of the box. You can use any OS. Now thats what I call freedom!
2|My charger burst yesterday I want to complain about it but dont know where should I do it. Also the 'back' key doesn't respond well and the notification tray drops down every time I take a call.
1|Very very bad method applied to buy this mobile. There are lot of mobiles available in Tech World. Don't try this foolish type of buying method. Amazon must not allow this type of buying method.
5|This phone is an absolute killer in this price segment. Extremely light and cliche design is a double winner. The phone has an excellent camera clarity to offer and battery backup is tremendous.
4|already have 1. Here is an invite which i got today if any one needs IN9C-B5CF-1B61-DA21 Invite Valid for 3 days. Otherwise I found the phone good, except low light camera.
4|The delivery was before time and the packing was as per expectations. Even if you need to track your orders it's easy for us to just visit the app and you are updated about it. A happy customer.
5|One of the best mobile in this price range. Go for it as it will be a better choice with premium look and powerpacked performance. I have an invite to share u can call me at 7276443869
5|device is fantistic love trhis device build quality
3|24hrs experience: Pros: Slim and great look with Smiles. Good for multi tasking Cons: Not good camera Heatsup on gaming WiFi is outdated one Bad software
4|It's actually a great phone and a great buy but yesterday only I discovered that only one speaker works whose quality is really good but the other one does not work . That is a letdown big one.
3|The process is too irritating for ordering this Phone. though that invite is just a Marketing strategy. The Phone quality is good & ok.. Ok.. They do not even provide headphones.
4|The best ever crafted phone ever i have used. Perssonally one of the best phones, except for phone's getting heated up while charging. Battery is small and doesn't last long for a complete day.
4|Really a handy phone & no compromise aid looks I m having champagne colour & it looks better than I phone....camera r OK... But if u have phone in hand it just change ur personality...
4|Using it for past 1week, nice phone with a pretty good looking body and screen. Also has a good processing speed. Though don't think that it would perform that well with heavy processing stuff
5|Good phone... Met my expectations. I am using this for last one month. One plus did their job by sending OTA update for SD card fix.... I am satisfied with my OPX and Amazon delivery...
3|all things are fine i.e. replacement + delivery time, but the working of phone is not up to the mark as oxygen os update not working properly. Also the packaging was not good enough.
4|stunning look, grt build design, awsm display front camera good but rear not upto mark battery not so good perfomance not bad many more bugs overall good at this price
5|Plzzz don't decreased the price. Its hearts. Its big loss to oneplus comapny . Awesome mobile in 17k price. Excellent performance and rich look. I buy champagne vibrant. Don't think about negative feedbacks guy just go for it. 1+ give me a bang bang phone. Thanks
4|This phone is nice and has an high end snapdragon processor only CON is the batterry..but its too nice on black theme on this phone..u can use the phone at average usage for one and half days
3|Everything is good but the only problem is the app memory is not moving to SD card. Please clarify me that it is the problem to me or to all. If it is so please rectify this through an update
3|I would have give it 5 star but there are 2 problem : 1. Mobile heating 2. Battery Back up. Rest of the features are same as depicted and overall the phone is good.
4|Though its bit slippery but phone works like charm
5|I m in need of an invite can any one help me......
1|Poor battery life the only reason it lets you down
5|Here's an invite.. Use it IN2D-1B86-9717-1196
4|Just what I had expected. I'm really pleased with my purchase. The only drawback is the camera, but changing the camera app has given better results. So on the whole I'm immensely satisfied.
5|Awesome phone for its cost. speed ,processsing, touch sensors are too good. camera "I liked it", depends on person to person But heats up a little when you play games.
4|The OnePlus X is a great mobile! B-U-T, if you're a person who needs a great battery life & a great camera quality, look for some other mobile... THE ONEPLUS X LOOKS A-M-A-Z-I-N-G!
3|All over phone is good but not as expected from seen customer reviews i had return this phone only for one reason videos are not playing smooth its shake while camera is super in its class
4|I switched from Apple to Android and this is my 1st device. Found it very interesting and convenient to use. But u know what they say if u don't have an i£€NE u don't have an I-ph@>€°°°
4|It does not read memory card. Once you insert a memory card there is a message saying checking for errors. Should have thought of other phones with built in memory. OPX team look in to it.
5|INVITE GIVE AWAY....(FREE)..... I have two extra invites(india) for opx...if anyone needs it personally message me...(chintan.tinesh@gmail.com) use this email id to message me on facebook...
5|Awesome mobile for its look Phone speaker is too Good amoled screen is also very good over all its very nice mobile only minus is sim slot we use only 2sim or memory card
5|It's been a week.. No lags.. Good battery backup.. Good display.. Great viewing angles.. Superb design.. Good rear and front camera..what else required.. Got it at 15500..best in the segment
1|The back button on the phone is really sluggish. One has to press it a couple of times to make it work. It was too late to return the phone by the time I realised it's a persistent problem.
3|Good phone. Camera quality not as per expectation. I think call blocking feature not available. Since it has expandable memory its good but drawback we can't have 2 Sims due to this setup.
4|Camera is good, display is awesome , sound is loud enough, battery is good even though it has 2525mah,in 17k this is the best phone... Using this since 3weeks ... And it's total lag free...
3|(After using for a month) No doubt this phone has great features but i had only one issue ... it used to hang for a bit mostly a lag for a small time and sometimes. still worth a buy.
1|Beware the phone gets heated.. Not so good features specially settings for gallery n folders.. How can I return the same, I bought it about 20 days back--am really unhappy with the phone
5|It's a amazing phone in very cheap price. You became selfie queen after using this phone..Go for it... Sleek and slim, very light in weight. Battey backup full on full. No storage issue..
5|The product was delivered well before committed, thanks to Amazon for that. The product is amazing, it was a gift for my dad on their anniversary and he is in love with his new phone.
1|Not great product undue hype has been created for pathetic product. Basic software issues are unresolved and I feel I wasted money on same. Not worth buying. No support from customer care.
2|Poor Camera Resolution w.r.t. to claimed as 491 ppi, Samsung J2 with 8 MP is much clear in terms of sharpness & brightness. I am very disappointed. Planning to return...please suggest...
5|phone is awesome. not a heavy gamer and hence battery lasts for more than 26 hours (either wifi or mobile data is always on). If anyone need invite, can whatsapp me on 9455717353
5|Very nice and good phone at this price range. Very good cell phone tower pick up, excellent photos, excellent video, no heating, fast battery charging,... Etc., I love this phone.
4|Good product. Would have 5 starred it if the battery was little bigger around 3000 mah and the Sim slot was standard n not hybrid. Otherwise a very good phone with looks to kill
5|I buyed my oneplus x it is amazing awesome feature now I want to order it for my brother people are saying 1 free invite is there on the box plz let me know where it is and how to claim it
5|Amazing phone and excellent features. The highlight was that the phone got delivered withing 10 hours after ordering. The 3 GB RAM is so good that the phone has the fastest boot up speed.
5|It's a great phone with everything you can ask for. Amazon delivered it... In a day as promised it. The speaker of the phone arent as expected, but otherwise a great a phone you must own.
2|this heats up very quikly.and battery draining very fast.amazon not showing replacement option but refund thats to bank account really suckzzz flipkart is best .two stars for disply....
1|Very disappointing to me Poor battery life Irritating sim card management Camera features are basic Low internal memory only 10gb available for user Very slippery
4|Overall phone is too good and very ease to handle..some minor bugs are their in the software, i will send a mail to one plus team about those issues..phone is too good and looks premium..
3|It's not dual sim its hybrid model and 3g is not getting enabled automatically once WiFi is off look wise damn good and for selfies its good battery is getting light heat while charging
5|Sleek phone. Packed with power. A really desirable design and an overall kickass piece of technology. Looking for a phone in this budget range, this whoops everything else on the market.
4|Gr8 phone, incomparable with any other phones in market right now. Good in all aspects camera , performance display reason for one star less is just for either or option of dual sim.....
4|Awesome phone, awesome design by one plus. I m a fan of u. This is the best phone under 20k. I suggest u guys. If u want a plan to buy a phone. Please go for it. Full paisa basool phone.
5|Hello Guys, I just received this phone. It was delivered within two days from the order. I must tell you whoever is confused whether to buy this phone or not, must believe in this phone and grab it with both hands and heart. Its amazing, the design is just so premium that you will feel victory over the iphone. Every millimeter of this oozes class, every accessory oozes class. the only thing that i didnt like was that it One Plus didnt provide me any ear phone. I recommend this phone to each one of you who are looking for a phone within 25K, yes trust me there's no battle between this phone and any other within this range. Thank You One Plus
4|Gr8 piece.. Gr8 design... Camera is Awesome.. Front & back both... Expandable memory... Only thing is you either use two Sim card or one Sim card and one SD card. But over all good buy.
5|Superb phone. Great looks with excellent features. Intelligently designed. Awesome Camara quality. Full battery charge can last upto 2.5 days. Surely beats all other leading phones.
1|Refrain from buying this phone go for one plus one instead. Oxygen OS is buggy and apps don't work consistently.gaming performance is poor and camera is very bad in low light conditions
4|After using it for 2 weeks i am giving this review. Worth buying. No issues with the hardware. Only issues with software those can be rectified. Camera clarity was not as expected.
4|Over all product is good on this range. One thing that I observed during charging this phone it take more then 2 hr to complete charge from 1%to 100% & which is quite painful.
3|Battery is draining fast. Not worth the money.
5|Very good one.... Sleek body.. Looks very cute..
4|use this within 46 hours... in8d-12d0-9fc0-5d82
4|First thank you amazon, for delivering the product before time on request. The phone looks like a very costly phone. Camera is good wont say awesome. Other features are great at 16999.
4|All aspects work perfectly fine..Camera is not great.. GPS doesn't work properly so u are lost in the city even if u have google maps as ur location doesn't refresh most of the times..
4|Perfect fit per the pricing relative to the features and specs of the phone. No phone is perfect you just have to find the one best matches your need. Oneplus X definitely met my need.
3|This smartphone looks really good. But it is a really bad performer in games. Even the one and half year old xiaomi mi3 is a better choice. If gaming us your priority dont buy this.
4|Great phone..under this price..actually i feel the best...I cudn't find even a single glitch which cud let me down .Guys if u need invite u can contact me on saxena4usaurabh@gmail.com.
5|REASONS TO BUY THE ONEPLUS X • Cheaper • Stylish metal and glass (or ceramic) design • Dual-SIM/expandable storage • More memory at 3GB • 8Mp front camera
5|Awesome product, reached on time. Camera is good. U can have either sim+sim or sim+ExtMemCard. Working seamlessly till now. HD display is awesome. Will definitely recommend to others.
4|After 1 week of use: The Battery capacity is not good. The OS should be more user friendly. Rest everything is awesome. The looks, display, performance, network, camera etc.
5|I was bit confuse in selecting one between moto x play and one plus x. I feel happy that I chose one plus x. Works perfectly. Camera is also above average. Best device at given price.
5|literally the bestest phone.... trust me yu are getting just enough....! front cam is excellent, rear cam is just avg in low light... but the speed and system is just ultimate!!
4|Could any one possibly clarify me that if the dual grills located at the bottom are dual speakers or is it that only one among is the speaker I.e if it's a mono speaker..... Thank you
5|Design and looks are awesome. 3G Ram makes the phone so efficient. Back cam is awesome. Front cam is also good in good light, bt lacks in poor light. Sound clarity i'm not satisfied.
4|Every thing good, but only problem is there is no Gallery in this phone. one plus one users doesn't like Oxygen OS, because lot of options are missing when compared with Cyanogen OS.
4|The build quality is great.The glass on front and back is marvellous .The metal frame has added to the beauty. Had the speaker been on front, it would become matchless.
4|Overall look and feel is good... Good finished. avg battery life with internet connection. At bottom there are two sound out of only one s ound responds for song tracks working.
3|Looks amazing but i was little bit disappointed to see that no gallary and music folder was preinstalled and rintone cant be set by our choice. Otherwise one plus X is very good set
5|Amazing phone at such a good price .. Big thanks to the makers of One Plus for giving value for money device. camera is best better than iphones , speed is fast and touch very good..
5|It is best phone that one can get at this price . Screen is awesome , build quality is good ,camera is good and battery life is not like oneplus one but still its is acceptable.
4|Nice phone. Liked it after using galaxy S4 for a long time. Have one invite if anyone needs. Email - janu2manu gmail. First one will get it. No reply means it's gone. Thx.
5|Good product..!! I have two invitation of Oneplus 2 (11/102015) valid up to 13/10/2015...... If anyone wants plz contact me as soon as possible....jibinis4u@gmail.com....!!
5|Another Benchmark phone by Oneplus. It is apparently the Best one with best features in the market right now. Recieved it today morning and believe me Its Mindblowing. Go For It ! ?
5|Overall an awesome phone at this price. Battery Capacity/Backup would have been better(2525mAh is not enough). Dual SIM or Single SIM + SD Card, this will disappoint a few.
5|It is compatiable 2G network. I have registerd my mail id for Invite code. but not recieved yet invite code. I have a invite code of one plus mobile. Contact - psnaruka@hotmail.com
4|It seems product has maximum features like iphone 6. seems to be good product. I just bought month ago and is giving good performance... time to give more comments after 6 months...
2|One plus x is overrated. I will give 5 stars for the customisation features and beautiful display. -10 for heating issue.. The device is getting overheated like hell
4|Liked the delivery & product except that the charger doesn't work properly. Have to connect data cable to the laptop & then get the phone charged, Causing too much of inconvenience.
4|Phone is very nice but disadvantage is this handset doesn't come with head phones by paying this much money if you don't provide headphone by paying this much money then no use yaar
5|incomparable specs in this price range...very fast processor...zero lag in this period of 1 month of use...light weight...nice camera..great sound...awesome..to say in one word..!!!
4|Phone is smooth, handy, premium look, good build quality, good camera and screen which is brilliant display thanks to AMOLED but comes to battery which is weakest part of this phone
5|Smooth ,elegant design,no irritating3rd party useless apps,I am pure ios user since 6 years and believe me this is the only Android phone I like,if your budget is high go for note 5
5|Amazing product :) Value for money!! Great processing speed and awesome cam quality..... Touch is simply amazing :) However, not happy with the battery backup :/
5|best phone at 17kk mustbuy camera is superb,clarity is awesome sound is. A bit low back finishing style are these best but the slow motion camera is bad except for that it's a beast
5|Amazing phone. Just what I needed. Go For It...
5|Awesome for its price range..totally satisfied!
5|On time errrr before time delivery. Excellent.
5|Looks good.and very Happy with the performance
4|All this phone is good but in this price its expensive. Fount and back panel having great smooth coating. Gaming performance verg nice. They don't have finger print.
4|A great option for people with a budget of less than 20k. Especially impressed with the battery life. Easily last a whole day. (Don't play games but use it constantly for internet)
5|The phone is super smooth and the display is great. Multitasking is super easy and smooth,but the battery life is average. Camera quality as awesome. Overall this phone is a great.
4|Phone is awesome except battery!!! Battery consumption is too much!!! Then everything is great with camera,amolded screen,and touch is very sensitive than one plus one!!!
5|Don't own this device and doesn't have any wish to own it either so can't review but since I have an invite, I would like to share. IN57-1064-9991-6491. Claim it within 2 days
5|Good phone. If you need an invite mail me at vimalk333@rediffmail.com or whatsapp on 7842249047. Very cheap compared to others and also will give you 55% coffer coupon on ola. Fast
3|I'm not a user who would rely on comparing specs, antutu scores etc. I bought this phone because of its looks. It looks stunning, the display is 5' but if you've used a bigger phone in the past, the screen would be small for you. Didn't like the camera so much, low lights are not as crisp. I did find some lag and screen drops while playing games. If you are someone who would hook on to a phone for six to eight months and then jump for another one, I believe this one's for you. Not a top notch experience but definitely can't pass by because of the looks.
5|Box arrived before time as always. Extremely happy with the deluvery. One plus packing as always is perfect. About the phone: its just what was needed for a medium to heavy usage.
5|Never seen such a beautifully crafted phone for such a price. A must have for such less price. The best part of the phone is the glass and metal body and AMOLED display is superb!
4|Phone is okay as per my expectations. Camera is not that high as pixels get break in it . touch is quite okay , overall i will rate 7.5 /10 Delivered on time thanks to amazon
4|Design is better.. There is problem with idea network.. Device is not register on there server as customer Care service said to me.. Instagram shows error "not responding"
5|Simply awesome phone with all the features at competitive price. Kudos to Amazon for on time delivery. Thanks to OnePlus for making such a gorgeous looking and feature rich phone.
5|Good product
4|Good one with few bugs in files, photos loading slow and not getting deleted After reboot only the deleted files vanish. Overall good phone with super camera and looks.
5|Amaxing phone bought it in december best phone in the price !! As well as most eye catching looks !!' must go for it if you are confused b/w dis or any other in range bellow 24 k
5|Really nice phone in its price range fully loaded with feature and very much faster than other Android devices out there in market. My first Android device n experiencing better.
5|Worth the wait for all new One plus X. Classic and exquisite design. 5" looks handy & easy free to use. The glass finish looks stunning. One of the top budget phones of 2015.
4|Phone is very nice look Feel But three disadvantage 1. Poor Camera quality 2.Battery is 2525 MAH oly 3. Memory card and Sim Slot. If they improve these phone will be Nice Phone.
4|A phone that is completely worth for its price. For those you like to have a phone which is 5" or lesser, this is one of the best phone in the market with a reasonable price.
3|Every thing of this phone is likeable. Only one drawback - we cannot define contact groups from ' contacts' and send group sms. lack of this feature really comes as a surprise!!!
5|Best product at this range. Works absolutely fine as of now and looks class at the same time. I have an extra One Plus X invite, mail me @ "uttam.kalita10@gmail.com"
5|Thanks, one plus it's amazing smartphone. So cute you are the best!!! I am just astonished by material used, speed, it's perhaps best creation. 9/10 Performance, Beauty, touch.
5|Excellent phone ...premium quality accessories
5|Awesome power packed beautifully crafted phone
5|Very good mobile any body want invite call me
5|Very nice phone, I will always recommend this.
5|I need a one plus x invite. Can anyone share ?
4|Mobile is very good. Also it reached before the scheduled time so the service is very good. The said mobile is working awesome. This review is after only two days of experience.
2|I have purchased this phone one week before and found so much issues with this.This phone touch not responded sometimes,screen gone black(need to reboot),and rebooted sometimes.
5|Perfect phone in 17k, Awesome design, 3 gb RAM - Value for money. If anybody is interested to buy this phone I have an extra invite, kindly contact via Whatsapp - +91 9922850075
5|Have ordered waiting for the master piece. . . . . .reading the review people seem to be happy...n I m sure it will turn out to be a block buster phone . . .thank you one plus .
4|Good for 17K, but hangs a lot, disappointed with 2SIM/SD cart feature and I am a 2 SIM user. less feature with image viewer, you can slide images from one to another.
3|I have a heating issue 42 degree temperature in my cell.. Plzzz suggest me what i do for this..??? And other features so all r good..best cell phone for this range..
4|One x is a good looking mobile and good on performance as well..it has few negatives like avrg battery backup n average camera performance.. Otherwise its a nice mobile to own.
5|delivered on time as always. great product. love the look and feel of the phone. comes with a pre loaded screen guard, which is a plus. overall - very happy with the oneplus x.
5|Awesome phone. . . Super smooth, a good UI. Better than expectation. Great delivery by amazon. Ordered at night dispatched within an hour n delivered second day.
4|Great phone , the design is just beautiful and very good for people who like small phones.Only problem is the software is a big buggy but its sure to change with future updates
4|Excellent phone with average camera . Oxygen OS is superb with lag free experience. I have some invites available for cheap. Mail me at namitin84@gmail.com for the invites
2|This product has a limitation that you cannot use the second sim if you use memory card and vice versa. And the item is a little bit slower in performance and hangs some times
5|The phone is a absolute beauty beast there is no better combo of beauty and power.The camera is good in daylight conditions but lags behind in low night due to a lot of noise.
5|Well.. It's amazing phone. I am big fan of Apple. But this is the first time I Hv brought "OP X". Stunning device. Hardware looks awesome. Need to see how it performs.
4|Quick delivery by Amazon. Pros: 1. Great display-Very Very Bright 2. Looks heavy but light to hold with good grip(better with back cover) 3. Custom back, recent and home keys(quite useful) 4. Need to check Battery and Performance... fine till now Cons: 1. Looks premium but lacks some features(FingerPrint, NFC, Fast Charging, Bigger battery, powerful GPU and the list goes on...) 2. Camera(front and rear) doesn't perform well in low lighting(where my moto-G 1st gen with 5 MegaPixel performed well) 3. No discount or freebies for early purchase :(
5|INCE-7C62-906C-B083 Use IT PEACE :)
4|Battery is not as good as like OPO.... or OP2
4|IN54-F187-6DDD-58A3 Claim within 2 days!
5|Got an additional invite. Anyone interested??
5|For invite mail me theedavinaykumar@gmail.com
5|OnePlus X invitation INAB-65E7-C1FC-2585
5|Value for money with a premium look and design, we are not using NFC frequently or even occasionally (me),so it comes with a power packed performance system..jus go for it!!!
5|Nice. Elegant phone with good design and hardware. Battery could have improved but it pays for its slim design. Will beat all mid range phones if priced at 2k less.
4|phone is so good only the negative feedback means its not having a inbuilt music,images,movies apps all works through google apps,other wise everything is fine(camera,design)
4|Great phone worth the price what i thought on first week but volume key has turned loose and has bended for no reason. i think it may be piece problem.want replacement badly.
5|Best phone for this rate . Im njoying using this phone . Only drawback u cant use 2 sims & micro sd . It this was not the case this is the best phone period .
5|Light weight, slim,easy to operate, don't get much hot while long talks,excellent camera,fast surfing speed, no breaks in videos, battery life is good, fast charging is done
4|the only reason i give it 4 stars is because it is not a very robust product in fact i would classify it as 'delicate' else for its price and features it is v good product!!
4|Oneplus x india invite available Last 4 days left IN01-9BB4-37F2-2D7E IN3C-EC35-97B4-CF1A INDB-7904-C69E-6E69? IN8C-D8EB-1ADA-CC3C IN38-C06A-E50F-EA13 IN4E-A4B2-BD7D-AF38?
4|Its a good phone..all the important issues have been solved in the oxygenOS 2.2 update...the battery could have been a bit better...otherwise overall for 17k a decent phone
5|Been using one plus one, took this for my sis & one plus still quite surprises me with the good phones & features... A great phone, the 8mp front cam & 13 rear are great..
5|Excellent delivery from amazon!! in just one day!! the looks are really killer i must say.. Great grip and camera quality is also cool. Really impressed
3|At looks the phone is very good but after using it i m not that much satisfied as you have to choose from second sim or sd card as it will support only one item at a time,
5|Nice look.excellent camera.I got chevron tempered glass for it.but it's not covering the screen completely. What about the oneplus x flip cover.feedback please
5|Perfect for budget . 100 percent satisfied .... Best design . I have some spare invites to share with u guys , mail at kiratalreja@gmail.com MORE INVITES HERE MAIL ME SOON
5|Best phone in the range...just loved it !!!!
4|IN7A-448E-34F1-0270 IN9B-99F8-DC54-86EE
4|IN36-7B04-790D-EC97 Enjoy and good luck
4|pleas sned me a invit...pooja.c0102gmail.com
5|Awesome look wise as well as feature wise...
4|Very good build quality. A quality radio, tel reception, superior camera. Did not support sd card program installation as promised. Android limitations are persistent.
5|using for past 1 month...no issues reported yet..great performance..camera is slight disappointment as pixel spread...but overall great phone in the price range..must buy.
5|A great package from one plus. Definitely the best looking phone-Sleek n Smart. Battery will also do well if u r not a very heavy user. No heating issues faced till now.
5|Value for money. But head phone is not available in box. Camera quality is also good. Battery Backup is also suprise as i was using Nexus 4 previously for almost 2 years.
5|It's awesome mobile. Look is excellent. Display is superb. 3gb RAM 16 gb internal(App.10.8gb) Dual Sim card (only NANO Sim) support. (when Memory card using then Only 1 Sim card usable.) Charging time is 1-98% almost 2 Hours. Android version is good. And Last camera...... Front is 8 Mp camera selfies is Very Good.(Day light) Rear Camera is 13 Mp. It good in day light.(When used in bad light it has noisy and photo not clear).its used in daylight superb Photos. Average its used in daily routine and good smart phone.
5|i have an invite.i will give it for free. Mandadikoushik@gmail.com i will book it for u as it is already claimes. i already have a one plus two.
4|Software has glitches but you can leave with it, lags for no reason at times, but the display is extremely beautiful and the built too which makes it overall a good phone
5|Amazing phone... Fast. Sleek fesign.. Eye-catching fesign.. Battery survives a day.. Need software updates for sure.. Lots of bugs... Thumbs up to amazon and one plus..
5|Good Looking Phone. Used it for the past one month. There are few software flaws like unable to choose default sim for making calls, Default sim for sending messages etc.
4|I m using this from 1 month and the performance of this phone is very good in its price range and camera is also takes decent shots some of shots is here check it out....
4|There is a problem regarding the network path of 3G to 4G shifting. And flash for camera(can't adjust or change flash settings while take a snap)... It could be modified.
3|Good overall performance. Couple of features like the downward swipe even when locked and no slide show for viewing images with heating issues are the only few irritants.
5|Good phone....sleek and stylish . Value for money...if any body need invite use these 3 sharable invite. INA1-5F98-333D-E5F0, IN6F-58AA-BFE6-E08C,IN10-FCE2-A677-4E17
4|All over product is nice but there are some mazor issues like heating, call sencer not works sometime,mic does not work without opening speaker . And poor battery backup.
1|While opening and using for 3 days it is awesome but now am facing lot of problems with its performance. Very very worst product. Please don't buy.
4|The phone is really a killer phone everything is awesome in this phone except it battery perfect phone its design is just killer and gaming experience is just incredible
4|Great buy for the price. But has a few software issues. USSD does not work in India. Expect opx team resolves this issue at the earliest (in the next update maybe).
5|The phone is Amazing. I have already purchased 2 One plus two before purchasing One Plus X. The specifications are really amazing and necessary for today's requirements.
4|Nice product performance is good. Only con is that it has got oxygen os on top of Android which is not optimized well bcoz of which apps are performing slow sometimes..
5|Looks premium. Display Awesome. Camera better.Front camera rocks.(I show some sample) Don't worry about battery backup. It gives you All day battery.
3|I want to say only one thing if you compromise with the camera quality or you don't want good camera the phone is OK in this price range bit expensive but ok looks good
5|Just go for it .... missing the headphones though :( Need to use your old one or buy a new one A bit more powerful battery would have made it even more awesome
5|An amazing phone...why to ask for more @16999 ..superb display, good battery backup, satisfied with its performance and the USP i.e its build-quality..I'm lovin it.. :-)
5|Awesome mobile look like a apple and feels like a rich and performance is superb no hanging and laging one day oneplus will beat all mobile company one day. For quality
5|Good One! Front facing camera quality is not Good. Otherwise display, rear main cam, battery backup and design seems perfect. Highly recommended as performance phone !!
3|OPX is sluggish phone. Responding very slow with respect to its 2.3 GHz processor and 3GB ram. Very disoppointing . Sad fact is that it does not have backlight button.
3|nice phone, but no gallery to store the pictures, we have taken..there is only file folders to open it.. I have an invite, those who need, pl whats app me at 9940340481
5|Just purchased this awesome smartphone! Pure beauty Have a fresh invite available that expires in 36 hours. Email me for details asap aman_1603@yahoo.com
5|Build Quality is Awesome, Camera Quality is Clear, Gesture Control works Awesome, Thanks for providing Back case along with phone..... Thanks Amazon for Early Delivery.
1|When I got it the first time I switched on, it was burning my hand. the CPU temperature showed 70 degrees Celsius (screenshot attached) after all the needed updates, and no apps running in b/g. When I connected to internet and downloading apps, the CPU temperature showed between more than 80 degrees Celsius, which is unbearable. If I keep it in my pants it would surely burn my skin. Just wownder if OnePlus doesn't test devices for such issues or is it the seller repacked a defective device. not sure. Amazon return policy was awesome. Waiting for the refund.
5|Amazing product. The build quality is just awesome. Phone looks so elegant. The delivery by Amazon was slow though. Order one day delivery if u cannot keep patience :D
4|The phone is best... Value for money.. The toch is amazing.. I love the phone... Only complain I have is... I did not receive any earpiece with the product.
4|It is a nice phone. Responses are quick. Functions are little different from Samsung so it will take some time to get used to it. Using it since a month and no issues.
5|It's amazing phone in limited price range. All the features are so gud. But camera in dark is not so gud. Flash light is slightly poor. But still overall is very gud.
5|If anyone wants invite for this phone let me know.. I habe 2 more days of validity for the the invite then its going to expire. My email id is dr.analpatel@gmail.com
1|Battery is very very bad. For such a powerful phone the battery is not reliable. Think before you buy. Drains so quickly.
5|Its been 3 days and Its awesome Beautiful phone. Highly optimised. No nonsense preloaded apps. Just basic android app. With some customization. Full HD.... awesome screen that obvious with amoled screen. Camera quality excellent. Even itow light gives satisfactory pic. Charging is pretty fast. Playing contest of champion for an hour 12% battery drained. Playing music for 2hr continoiusly 4%,battery drained. With average usage u can run ur phone even more than 2hr. Will update review in next 2week.
5|Got Rs 2000/- off on Republic day discount. Next day delivery @50/-.. Is definitely worth the money.. Looks good and fast.. Totally recommend if this your budget..
4|The OPX is a perfect mobile interms of design and the features xcept the battery in it .please do not buy if battery backup is your priority. Rest all well and gud !
5|The phone is an absolute beauty in every manner. The quality and effort Oneplus have put to deliver an exceptional product is where they have own. Thank you oneplus.
4|Build quality : Good One thing which i did not like is, i cant use external memory card and 2 sims at a time. Will post complete review after 2 weeks.
5|Congratulations, you have just received an invite to purchase the OnePlus X. OnePlus X friends use this invite IND8-9E9D-F200-5618 Claim within 3 days!
1|Aweful battery life .. recommend only if you can carry 250 gm powerbank with this 150 gram phone.. disgusting. 68 % battery drained and phone switched off before 6..
4|OnePlus X is an stylish sleek suave phone yet budget priced. Its configuration is pretty much similar to OPO, and appeal is that of an iphone. Good buy for the money.
5|Its a good phone using one plus 2 hence this feels like little toy had to return it though due to some issues but a great product and as usual great service by Amazon
3|Returned this phone and bought one plus two. The phone looks beautiful but not value for money overall because of the battery and camera which are below average.
5|Absolutely cool for the price! Solid design! Blacks are really black thanks to amoled display! Nice processor! Battery life impressive too! Delivered real fast..
4|I loved the oneplus x in every aspect the performance is superb and the set itself looks premium but one one con is that it heats up while doing nothing and i mean it
5|For this price range , this is one of the best mobile. Performances is very good. The built quality is very good and looks premium. Overall good product from oneplus.
5|Its the best in category phone I have ever used or say will use in such a decent price... If u need invite to buy call or whatsapp at 9992572664.... Hurry limited lft
5|One of the best phones in the market, great size best in class camera, awesome interface, too good looks and the best part is its available at a very good price !!!!
4|My first review should reveal good, so it is great to have thing as their are some things which decrease it standard such as not well improved heating technology etc
4|Looks great design, camera both primary and secondary good, batery not good but ok becoz of 3gb ram, sound quality is good at some extent after that extent very bad.
4|Great Phone with a Few Software Bugs. I have few Invites available expires on 23-Nov-2015 . Contact me at - shub.sharma466@gmail.com or Whatsapp me - 7503371832
5|Has an excellent display. Colours and clarity are quite good. The device feels good on the hand. Has a very premium feel to it. Has no plastic. Only glass and metal.
5|As expected from Oneplus, a great product.
5|awesome product,light weight and excellent camera and the best part is its fluency, runs quite smooth,lag free and thanx AMAZON for the super fast delievery :)
4|Nice phone but it suddenly turn off and reboot .camera good ,sound good ,touch excellent,gaming xperience gud but heating problems which makes the user little dstrb
4|First impressions: Mighty fine for the price. Needs better documentation on opening the box and first use. Good technical support. Could do with better fingerprints
4|It is a well made well designed phone. Does not have any crap software. Easy to handle. Sometimes voice calls stop in-between but is rare and not a regular problem.
5|Best looking phone under 20k...extremely sleek and handy..specifications are decent and not great,but it performs very well all day to day tasks without any hiccups
3|Phone is superb. Classy and light weight. Issues with Internet connectivity and fall back to 2g does not occur like my old samsung phone. Having problems with that.
5|Excellent phone in this budget. I have few one plus X invites, if anyone interested mail me at a.kedar11@gmail.com. Invites will expire by 4th December 2015.
2|super cool display super fast processor but bad camera no image stabilization technology.......baki sb mast h looks killer in hand but camera disappointed
4|Amazon delivered the phone in just 2 days, between a sunday. Hats off to Amazon Phone is very good, Both front abd back cameras give clear photos with true colors. AMOLED display is amazing, Battery life is decent, on first full charge it gave 3Hr 45 min of Screen On Time, Earpiece and loudsppeaker give clear output Oxygen OS on Lollipop 5.1.1 is smooth, Performance is very good. Overall Satisfied with the purchase. Waiting for a good protective case from Spigen or Diztronic. For Invite contact on virajkin@ymail.com
5|Just one word - Awesome phone !!!.... Just go for it friends... For this price you get - Amoled, full HD, 5"screen with gorilla glass (best display/screen in competition) , 3gb ram, 16gb internal memory expandable to 128gb via mmc, otg support, 4g, dualsim (smart/hybrid sim slot i.e u can either use 2 sim or 1 sim + memory card), very good 13mp rear camera with flash(see pics), 8mp front camera, very good battery standby, full glass body with metal frame, loaded with android lollipop 5.1.1, which works flawlessly.....!!!
5|Dont know whether it is a good phone or not.but have an invite to share.hope it will be usefull for those who are looking for this phone.
4|Good handy phone at this price rate. Only drawback is that it does not support Gujarat language, like one plus one & one plus two supports. Good camera quality.
4|Phone is great! Specially the screen. Only problems 1. U have to choose between 2nd sim and a microSD card. 2. The hardware buttons are not backlit
3|i have received invite, but my only query is, does it have a compass??? i.e. when you open google maps, does it points towards the direction your phone is facing??
4|One of the best phone that I have used till date... Only one draw back that it does not come with ear phone.. One plus should think about it and do the needful..
4|looks to be a good phone those who want one plus X, use this invite. IN6F-26C7-94A4-CEE8 VALID FOR ONE DAY ONLY! HURRY TO CLAIM! CHEERS!!
5|Good phone to buy. Only con is you can not use two sim cards and micro sd card at a time I.e. You can use either two sim cards or one sim card and a micro sd card.
4|Writing this review after using the phone for one day. Feels premium on the looks and also very light weight. You will feel happy holding the phone :). Observed heat near rear camera at times, but not sure if this is a concern in long run. Though rear camera is 13mp, it doesn't live to the expectations, you wont feel the pictures are nice. However the front camera with 8mp is on the mark, very good pictures. Regd battery, one day is too early to comment, as i am yet to install hell of apps.
5|Got the one plus X. As fast as phone features goes. It's a damn looking phone. Started using it. Let see how it perform. However initial performance is very good.
4|Runs smootht like nexus . best under 25000 no lags or any problems camera is great .nearer to pure android experiance.(disappointing is run on lollipop version)
5|Always buy products from Cloudtail. You will never feel cheated. They always give original products. Regarding phone, I know you all have bette idea, its a beast.
3|Not impressed!! Just another smart phone. Would have brought Lenovo vibe s1 if I wud have an option of buying another phone today, at least for the stunning look.
3|Quality of camera is not good and the front sensor doesn't work properly. So while you make calls you dont realize when call go hold as the screen doesn't go off.
2|Good looking phone. Very responsive. Pathetic battery life. Cannot use Sd card if using with dual sim. Phone heats up a lot when any call exceeds 10 minutes.
4|Best Class in 17k You do not get more than this in this Price range. Some so called reputed companies only cheating you. Must buy if you want
5|Want to buy one plus x? Waiting for invite? Contact me in whatsapp or call me on (+91 7278538224) .My invite is valid till 30th november.. Contact me before that.
2|Built is nice and Amoled display perfect for this size. All OK for what i have paid for except cameras. Back camera is too sluggish when i try to click and pictures are very grainy thogh if I click it in normal light. If i click outlide full of artificial white color. Vedios are too much shacky and sluggish look like it can only capture below 15 frames per second either HD or Full HD, which I can't watch it again. SD 801 with 1080p display UI and OS should be smooth and fludic, but it doesn't. These issues are bothering me.
5|i want invite how can i easily get invite
4|can any one please share an invite please
5|An invite for a giveaway any1 interested?
5|Need an invite....jainpriya2017@gmail.com
5|For invite mail me at badripavi@gmail.com
5|Amazing Phone When you look at all angles. It's looks gives you a premium feel and is very sleek and light. Camera and Battery are Good. Good Processor with 3GB Ram to ensure smooth running with zero lags. Literally the best budget smartphone in the market. The Software is almost Pure Android so you will love it with Good Dark mode and Tap on Features when the phone is locked . Just Blindly Buy the Phone if you have an Invite. And Thank You Amazon and One Plus For creating a Masterpiece at Just Rs17000.
4|Oneplus x was very Good in terms of Build Quality and touch.Everything was fine But I found Earpiece volume was Low and I hope they will make changes in future..
2|In comparison with XOLO Black 1X, it lacks in memory and looks, with most other specs being same, but XOLO costs just 9999/- Dont see any reason to buy this
3|Upgraded since my earlier phone was less with memory now I got the right upgradation I personally feel that OS and the internal features needs lot of upgradation
5|Beautiful phone with brilliant performance. There are still a number of glitches in the software but they are being rules out slowly. Otherwise a good buy.
3|No doubt this excellent phone.. BUT MAKE SURE AND THAT WETHER IT SUPPORT YOUR LOCAL LANGUAGE.. GUJARATI LANGUAGE IS NOT SUPPORTED CAUSES GRAVE PROBLEM...
5|Awesome phone at this price.... here is the extra invite code for people who want to purchase one plus x IN28-E149-0D4C-1188... please don't sell this invite...
4|One plus x has a good display, huge storage with micro sd card, most of all that the device in hand compact design.I have invite who wants contact me 8500571243
5|Feature rich phone true value for money compared to the features available,looks,feel and battery life an extra bonus... If you have an invite then must grab it
4|Pros Ambient display Smooth processor Premium looks Sleek design Cons : Average camera No themes No marshmallow upgrade
3|Freezes on opening apps.. Camera is great in its category. Looks and feels premium. Can go for it... Not a better option than moto x play.
5|Lovely phone with great features ... I just wish that the battery had a lil more juice but even that is tolerable! My final verdict great device for the price!
5|Good mobile,if some memory card issue arise please upateOS.it will read upto 132 gb.only battery life is limited after charge. It is a excellent master piece.
4|It is amazing device with some issues like sometime display absence during incoming calls and screen activation during call which enable the touch on screen...
5|awesome phone, didnt expect to b such a beauty bybseeing on line, but when i actually felt it in hand looks very premium, happy super happy, amazing camera.
5|This phone is insanely good although if you heavily rely on your phone throughout the day, I wouldn't recommend it because the battery capacity isn't the best.
4|Just 1word awesome phone. Thanks to oneplus team.all functions was nice. But battery was no longeruse. M just use 3to4 hour chting nd bettery shown to 60%less.
4|Phone was excellent..looking great.. but getting heat.. i don't know exact problem..other features was awesome. please contact me if you need invite 9000919339
5|Good phone but disappointment is it doesn't come with headphone and mike for the price they charge. + Points they ship with phone case and screen guard fixed
5|phone is very nice..i hv sony z1 but its better than sony...lets see what kind of service.. coz in my view after sale service is most important.. than product.
4|Can someone share invite for one plus x?
4|Pretty impressive but some of the things are missing i.e. NFC, 16gb Storage is decent not massive they shouldbe launching a 64gigs variants for this price tag
3|Why phone memory is only 12 GB. And some times am facing audio problems. Swifting from microphone to speaker and vis a vis is a great problem with the device.
3|The phone has really beautiful looks and display. But the battery life is not so great. Also it is a bit sluggish in spite of 3GB ram. Camera is just average.
5|Value for money and design of the phone is no match to its price, it exceed that. Very premium looks, less weight. The gestures and UI too is very good.
4|Good fone..battery is not that good though. Also if you use mobile with 2 sim, you are left with 16 GB only...out of that 4.7 GB is used by android even worse
5|Fantastic Phone..!! Fabulous Camera Clarity..Fabulous Sound Support... Small Drawbacks : NON REMOVABLE BATTERY,NO OTHER SLOT FOR MEMORY CARD..
3|Battery issue & camera is good but no details if images are zoomed in... Rest everything is good and heating problem is not so much but little bit it heats..
5|the sexy beast.... awesome camera its just mind blowing ....... oxygen os is awesome ..... its quick great speed os updated to 2.1.2
4|One Plus X is a great phone. It has a very good camera. The design is also very good. Out of 3gb ram, about 2gb is always free.. It is great to look and in feel also. Oxygen OS is superb. It is very customisable and user friendly.. Just one thing is not so good. The battery... It's average.. With normal use, it lasts around 12-13 hours.. But with heavy use, it can get over in 6-8 hours.. But with everything else perfect, we can live with this battery.. Overall, recommended for everyone.
4|Great phone... Looks are awesome.. But battery life is not that good..... Some apps are missing..... But overall great phone for its price.... Satisfied
2|The product doesn't live up to the expectations. Proximity sensor goes on and off randomly! Lag is experienced at times. Overall is big NO from me.
2|Pros - Compact size, design, camera, features/gimmicks (like silent button) Cons - Wrong color calibration, finger magnet, not flagship UI (with oxygen)
5|its a good buy!! n working g8!! lil big in size but thats very small issue in front of its price!! we are very happy woth the product!! n Amazon especially!!
4|Get this phone for a smooth android experience without the hanging, all thanks to the 3gb ram. Night photos seem rarher nlisy but otherwie camers is amazing!
4|Amazing phone Superb front camera.... Even the back camera is good... But front camera is better Storage space... Very nice Hd quality view
4|Not bad at all. Using it for over 3 weeks now. working really great, fast, not getting heat unless I watch videos continuously. Sleek model with decent grip.
5|Premium feel in budget price. Undoubtably one of best in price range. Hardware is superior to others in the price range. Look is great. Performance awesome.
5|Sexy phone, the best considering the price. Maybe a better battery but still excellent Delivery by Amazon was excellent. Got it well before due date
4|Looks are awesome, built is way too good.. Little heating trouble.. Internal Memory is less. Earphones with other brand doesn't provide sound satisfaction..
5|Nice phone
3|I got the phone that I order through Amazon but its unexpected that one of the two speaker in the bottom is not working... The rest is ok as far as I know..
3|The phone does not meet ur expectation! The quality of cemera is soo poor..... There are grains over the picture... The phone does not hive valie for money!
5|Good phone for 17k.. Satisfied with its performance and camera, battery life is above average and below excellent.. Fits perfectly for one hand operation..
5|Overall a decent handset in this price range. I've been using since last 2 weeks, had no issues and some sd card issues were solved with a small ota update
5|Worth the money! Bought this for my dad and he's loving it. Here's the invite. IN17-77CC-A618-6C4E IN8B-6D2A-04FA-D138 You need to claim it first though.
5|Ordered Saturday evening, got it on Monday evening at Thrissur,Kerala .. Both side glass. Luxurious look . Loved it. fit perfectly both in hands and pockets
5|This is an outstanding phone. I love the stock Android experience and this phone is close to that.. Performance is excellent.. Overall a very good package..
5|Killer looks and Mind blowing performance, Both cameras are gr8,, Don't worry bout negative reviews,, OnePlus throws a great phone again.....
5|Excellent phone in this price range. Only con is battery backup. Otherwise very good phone. If anyone wants invite just mail me at anujyadava85@yahoo.co.in.
3|i am using this phone for past 2 days..i am facing scrolling lags while using menu and battery drains..if there any solutions to fix this please reply me..
4|Amazing phone in almost every respect, except for the battery. Well worth the price but be sure to spend a bit more on a power bank if you're a heavy user.
4|I used OnePlus2 and its awesome . specially the camera it is brilliant.. superb but i got an OnePlus X Invite here IN72-F016-7FED-357B
5|Simply Brilliant nothing more ? Go blindly with this guys u wont get disappionted for sure ? Lets see the after purchase support from OnePlus !!
4|redmi comper with one x option very low
2|Phone is hanging even though it has more free space. Screen blacks out if the home button is pressed multiple times. need to check with customer care now.
5|The one and only phone at this PRICE !!! Value for money ONLY one regret though the inbuilt memory wud have been 32gb or at-least a separate version !!!!!
5|Thank u soooo much one plus and amazon.. This phone simply awesome.... Killer look super performing capability.worth for money..just go for it..
5|Great phone.. some work needed on giving the camera more editability in slow motion and time lapse modes...Else great buy and definitely worth the money!!
5|I love my oneplus x. I love his look n his camera quality. That's awosome. I think everyone who want to buy a new phn should luk at this product at once.
4|Best product in this price i am not sure if it supports airtel 4g, tried to access 4g but was very slow not sure network problem or phone doesn't support.
4|Just bought oneplus 2 few days back as i needed a high end device. But if someone needs and invite for oneplus x whatsapp or call me on +918765152161
5|its a nyc gadget!!..superb gaming!!.. nyc delevry get it in one day.. only one prblm if they gv 32gb or 64 gb internal memory then its rocks..:)
2|Gets hot easily. In call menu toggling from Loudspeaker to earphones leads to one way voice and calling party can't hear. Didn't live up to expectations.
5|Was very excited to get my hands on this beauty.So far it has lived up to its hype I am happy but its just the first week .Must say I am impressed so far
3|Phone is awesome by look and feel But gaming performance sucks even after having 3gb RAM. Not advisable for gaming. Camera is ok, not up to mark as 13mp.
5|Great phone....a have invite ,if anyone need plz contact me...1 day last...contact 9662730224...sorry. Invite gave to smone...I'll inform when available
4|Best in class phone just camera is bad in low light. And heats uo near camera while intense use. Overall best phone dont think just go for it.
5|Excellent dilevery by amazone thank you amazone. About one plus x, Its just a piece of art and compassion. no negatives at all.
5|High end quality in build and design and great performance in hardware and software. At this price a product like this is definitely a steal. Go grab it.
5|Got an Invite and excited to buy it.... Surprised to see Nil review... Please share your first reviews asap. Only 40 hours left for me to use the invite
5|The only Major Issue that I have with this phone is that the USSD function does not work for the Indian Network Airtel. This is a pain because we are largely dependent on that USSD. I also think that Airtel guys are forcing us to use their app instead of the USSD by blocking this service!! Other than that the phone is absolutely marvelous. The only time it got stuck was when I put a new sim or I meddled with the Airplane mode but then it gets freed almost immediately.
5|Invite giveaway. IN79-65DE-BD68-F227 (Activated, can be claimed in the next 48 hours) So enter the above invite & buy it.
4|Excellent phone for the price... The battery feels a bit low right now but it should improve once android L based Oxigen OS comes in for one pkus X
4|Superb phone.. The weight, design and thickness are just awesome.. At the price range, its fab.. Bt I like the built quality and the design overall...
3|Phone seems gud but i am really surprised with the look of and also its strange that there is no ear phone inside the box. I beleive it should have one
4|No doubt looks great, feels great. Yet to test it fully, yet to test the camera, though feel its heat somewhat. Yes, think it's heating up. Have to see.
2|The Phone is lagging and the phone gets stuck while in simple processes like screen unlocking and switching to Airplane mode or shifting Data usage from sim 1 to sim 2 and many lagging issue with the piece i have received. I need a replace for the product and not sure does Amazon provides me with the option as could not see any such. The built quality is lavishing however the massive 3GB ram is not at all shown with its actual work. Please can some one get back to me on this.
5|Does any one has any invite to share..
3|I have invite watsapp me at 9043733352
4|I got it yesterday.. Bang on for 17k.
3|Cons:- Micro sd card not showing in storage menu, only internal storage. I hope its a software problem and they fix it in next OTA (URGENT FIX REQUIRED). Battery seems to be average. Heats up on heavy usage. Lags sometimes while navigation. Good things:- Really great feel in hand slim & easily operable with one hand. Stunning display, thanks for using amoled. Decent camera.
5|Its my first Oneplus Phone, Starting i was little bit of nerves to buy this one. But after i am start to using it is Awesome. Overall its a good Phone.
5|After 1 week of use, I find this phone awesome. Sleek look, metal glass finish, audio quality can get better then this for this money. I'm lovin it ^_^
4|Performance and build wise very good.. Some glitches in the phone... While speaking screen gets on.. Sim Signal reception is not good everywhere..
5|Amazing phone ... looks superb ...handles easily ..... really enjoying using it ...in fact my mother is now using it and preferring it to her Samsung 5
4|Good phone for this price and it is smooth and fast during usage. Only negative point faced till now is that the screen legibility in sunlight is poor.
4|So happy wid d phone n packing n delivery. Bt charger is dead. So replaced it on customer care of one plus.. One Plus X is amazingly. So loving it!
5|Charges quickly. Doesn't heat up. Fast processor. Software updates are pretty frequent and it's an absolute delight. The camera works pretty well in low light conditions. Smooth UI and expandable memory make it an ideal option for me. Also, the fact that with 40 mins of charge time (about half) the phone lasts 6-7 hours while I browse nonstop. Even watched a couple of movies in HD on it and loved it. I haven't missed my iphone at all and that is saying something...lol!
4|Nice look.gooood performance.very good price.all In all best phone at any price point.good work one+.I am leaving one star only for ur purchase system
2|Did not turn up as expected. The same old android user interface. One plus should go further with UI design to make it more attractive while using it.
3|According to the reports, one plus x is a good phone, but unfortunately I got a defective piece, so I returned it to Amazon and took Zte Nubia z9 mini
5|One plus X I like but only issue is with back panel, its too glossy, its Slip's from hand, is any mat finish or less glossy panel is there with phone?
5|Bst phn.... Screen mind blowing with amoled nd cg3.... Oxygen os mind blowing and body finishing..... No words for that.... Love one plus x....
5|A smart phone should be that u can use it with I single hand, and being 5inc this phone is good, for past 2day I am using it and 1+X has been stunning
3|Battery draining very fastly 100% to 10% in just 4 hours of continues use. Charges very slowly . Takes approx 3:30 hours for full chrge
5|Amazing industrial design. Amazing specs. And a way too aggressive pricing. Damn, i got this phone on the 2nd day of it's launch. Best 17k ever spent.
5|Bang for 17k...Lucky to get invite on today morning and finally I used it to buy an awesome phone... Will update my review after using it for few days
5|One Plus X Awesome Android Mobile Phone In My Think. Thnaks Amazon For This Premium Delivery. There Are No complaint With Amazon And Product Partner.
4|Looks of this phone is good And AMOLED SCREEN is awesome but Performance is not good rear camera is so bad
4|The best I had ever used. Good comparability, less weight, good style.. Worth for money. The only drawback is, the pack is not coming with headphones
5|A vry dashing n a classy look... features n specifications are extraordinary. . A vry hapy to hve diz fone n Luv this fone.. thnx one plus
5|Very good collection mobile in amazing Att amazon one plus x battery backup amazing display Super sound quality super but headset N/A. All most okey
3|I have seen few reviews and feels its a good buy,I need an invite for one plus x for india ,Plz anyone share with me majiedahamed@gmail.com Thank you
2|Hello friends, Pls don't buy this mobile if you wants a smartphone.opx is looking beautiful but features are "BAHOT HI FOOL", There is no fingerprints scanner, second sim only support 2g network, Default sim option not available for calling..always ask SIM1 OR SIM2, Poor front camera performance....Camera is capturing improper images. NO Gallery Price is too high. Battery is ok 64 gb memory card not support..
5|Awesome mobile. I love it. Thanks :-)
5|I got the same on 1-Jan-16. Truly it is a great Handset functioning very well Never Hang....Looks is awesome! dekhte hi pyar ho jaye!...Happy to buy
5|A good phone. Really worth buying under 20000rs. I have an invite if someone wish to have it contact me on 8750035641 Or light.frazer@gmail.com
3|Phone is good but only issue which concerns me is that while phone is in charging it gets heated up... Unusual for a new phone.. Otherwise it's OK..
3|Really upset with the performance of phone. call is not connecting properly and heating issues wifi as well totally not worth of buying this.
4|This phone is amazing in every aspect except the battery drain, which is probably not a big issue to fix for some geeks. Amazing phone nevertheless.
5|I m looking for oneplus x invite to buy this nice phone. Please share it to yarram.srinu@gmail. com and will share my invite also to public for free
5|Phone is fantastic. Operating seems much smoother than expected. Camera quality is just good nothing more than that. But overall this phone is good.
5|Thank you Amazon team for delivering the phone before scheduled date!!! The phone screen is really good, performance is also commendable
4|Mobile is very good for design and operating also, but in camera mode flash is not working in my mobile... Tell me how can I solve my problem
3|Evetything about the phone is good except the pop up messages issue... Its difficult for me to use without that option... *121# does not respond...
4|Everything perfect. Battery is not that much good for heavy use. But for nomal prople everything fine. There is no headphones with this phone.
4|Has minor heating issues and low light camera issues which I think is there in any phone in this price range. Otherwise, superb build and software!
5|It was ah grt phn wid an awesum disply nd wid ah gd cmpct desgn bt d camera z not up to d mark in low light due to low flash bt it is managable....
5|Best so called budget / mid range phone available. Premium build quality and software.. Let down by camera a bit...sold this and bought Nexus 6P...
5|This phone is an excellent product at this price. The only glitch that I find in this phone is that the video camera recording isn't smooth at all.
3|Great looks,Great build quality,A big iphone 4 but only the thing that disappointed me is the battery,phone get discharged within 4 hours of usage
5|anyone looking for an invite please contact me on 7874275285 at very cheap rate. please hurry up as it will expire in two days.I can meet in surat.
5|Amazing phone, Perfect value for money, excellent camera front as well as rear, elegant touch, battery response is superb. Perfect smartphone.
4|Product is nice but only issue is heating. Back side heat up while charging. And Flash light is not as much strong to have clear pic at dark.
4|The product is excellent and is catering my needs. Only thing is battery life where it sucks huge power when wifi and blues tooth is on
5|Best mobile at its pricing. Excellent camera quality Sleek design. Best in performance but battery of mobile drains quickly.
5|One plus x is a great phone. Although it does have some glitches, the overall experience with the phone is really nice. Speedy delivery by Amazon.
5|Excellent phone, worth the price and much more than that! I have an Indian Invite. If anybody needs it, send your email-id by SMS to +919980113794
5|Awesome look Camera good Sound clarity okk Performance very good Anyone want invite please contact me on WhatsApp @ 9740900577
4|The phone gets a bit heat up while on charge n WiFi on same time, found a minor lag in whatsapp, it's been 12hrs with the product . Hopes up..!!
5|Got the phone yesterday and like to tell all that phone is a very good buy option and after two days I can say that my money has not been wasted .
5|Superb phone..if I could give more stars to it then I would give countless stars to this phone...!!!! Great value for money. A must buy guys...!!!
5|superbb phone...if any one has invitation code please tell me....i wana purchase this phone but still not invitation code got...!
5|Excellent cell phone, right size n very slim. Very satisfied for this is my second instrument from onePlus. At the price is the best one can get.
5|Its such an amazing phone ....definitely worth the price....its been exactly 20 days since i started using this phone and i am in love with it ..
5|Amazing Loved it. very good phone with nice build quality. very slike & nicely covered design. One Puls came up with very nice design & feature.
5|I have 3 invites which will be end soon. So anybody needs it. Drop a mail with one plus x invite in subject. My email id is tiwarikind@gmail.com.
5|Worth every penny. Best midranger out there!! Awesome Display, Still camera and battery life; only grouse is the video camera quality.
5|1 star for display 1 star for performance 1 star for premium build quality, looks,design 1 for camera and ummmmm....... again 1 for camera
4|Love the device on paper. Has got to be among the most beautiful phones available in the market right now. Will update once I receive the device.
5|Excellent phone Worth the price
4|con 1. no figerprint 2 small battery
3|I Got my mobile today when I started using hotspot mobile getting heat up in seconds.. Really felt disappointed with this. what shall I do now ?
5|Best smartphone as a budget phone of 2015 The glassy look of this phone is most attractive . . Awesome smartphone One Plus X
4|The phone is very good. Worth buying for 17K. But the phone has heating issue. Also thanks to Amazon for delivering the product in just ONE day.
4|Phone looks dashing and differ so far performance also good, if I will talk abt camera and compare it with mi4i then mi will get advantage here.
5|Amazing phone at 17k. Works absolutely flawlessly and can also be called a mini version of oneplus one and two combined ? great value for money
4|I have recieved phone pretty fast by amazon.. phone is really good for single hand operation..looks are great..and yes processing is really good Now come to cons..1st when started to phone he had very high temperature issue..later post software update temp seems reduced considerably. Battery is biggest problem with me. its not lasting for say 10hr for normal usage also. but overall a good buy Use IN6C-6FD9-6B82-0872F invite last 24hrs
1|Anybody who is purchasing this phone after seeing the performance of one plus one and one plus two will be in for a rude shock. The battery of one plus X is one of the worst battery and does not last even for 8 hours.. There is an issue with the battery overheating also. The proximity sensor does not work and while answering a call multiple windows open up and sometimes the call gets disconnected as the screen is active while answering a call. On the memory front it claims to have 16 gb but the available memory is only 11.54 gb.(pic attached) On value for money fronti think I will give 2 on the scale of 10 as by paying another few thousand more, you can get one plus one.. My advice to buyers is DO NOT BUY this phone..
5|Sexist phone I have ever used. Very smooth very efficient . if you have 17k in your pocket then this could be one of the best phone to send on.
5|The Phone is awsome...... I really loved the feel of the mobile in my hands... And totally satisfied with the Amazon Assured delivery on time..
5|Wow amazing mobile delivery very fast nd good camera &video quality mind blowing this mobile very fast nd good battery charging is super....!!!
4|This is a good mobile good camera great desing curved edges , but because its curved edges the tempered glass is not fitting well in front side
5|Nice phone but worth buying for gamers in this budget but it should have dual sim with expandable memory and high mAh battery at least 3000 mAh
4|It's a great mobile with great features but the battery is a bit worse... It drains out very quickly... Could have gone for a bit more battery.
5|I m looking for oneplus x invite to buy this nice phone. Please share it to vjerin8@gmail. com and will share my invite also to public for free
5|This is the best smartphone till date in every aspect. Look, features, compatibility, price & so on. Hats off to OnePlus for making such Beast.
5|I have more than 3 sharable invites for one plus x.i am interested to sell it.contact via arvinddharanidharan@gmail.com or WhatsApp 9488735801
4|best . phone. design /performance /battery/ operating system /camera quality. is good good . not upto the marks. but stilll phone is best ...
2|Bought this for my friend and she didn't like it all, especially the battery life, so after using it for a week, we decided it to sell in OLX.
3|Ive been using it for about 3weeks.Product is good, but the problem is with the battery. Phone gets heated up and battery drains very quickly.
5|Best phone in 17k with AMOLED display Suggest me some good tempered glass for front & rear which wont disrupt the look of the phone
5|Great value for money device, SD card detection issue is there currently and is to be fixed with a software update. AMOLED screen is too good.
5|This configuration only this phone. Lettest technology use me and happy for fill like reach and one of the best technology. Thanks once again
5|I got this phone 2 days back and it was delivered on time by Amazon. Since two days I'm using this phone and found it very nice. Pros- Nice performance Good screen Camera is good Cons- There is no light at bottom on back or cancel button but that's ok Battery lasts for 1 full day I would recommend this phone to all those who are looking for a very nice performance in budget price.
5|Low battery backup is the only con.
5|Great phone great service by seller
2|Advantage 1. light weight 2. small size Disadvantage 1. heating issue(camera side), 2. hd video, frame dropping issues, 3. poor quality camera (back) 4. Low battery backups 5. Gaming also frame dropping issues 6. Interface, I can't see anything other than android. (just few customization on color.) Over all its a budget phone but one plus x is not worth for this budget.
4|Overall good device in this price range. Only limitation is we can't use Second SIM and Memory Card Simultaneously due to Common Slot...
4|Very Nice Mobile. Everything is good, one & only - ive point is its price, (costly in comparison of other mobiles).. Otherwise good product
4|One plus x nice phone. Dual sime phone. If you insert second sim than no space for SD card (one sim+one SD card slot /one sim +one sim slot)
5|Great display Good performance Good form factor Fit and finish good Average battery Slow to charge No nfc
4|Pros - Camara (even better than my Sony Xperia Z2), low weight, slim design Cons - OS (lack of some functions, which is really annoying)
2|Just after charging my phone twice the usb cable stopped working...i have tried other cable, that does work fine... Low quality accessories..
5|Display is awesome and camera is great. This is a great phone at 17k, and similar phone with this configuration will definitely be over 20k.
5|I am very much impressed about the phone. why u put invite system .why not open offer if it open offer all people enjoy the fun in less cost.
5|Perfect timing. Expected delivery was 1st but received on 31st. So was a new year gift at right time. Quality of product is as expected
5|A super amoled display, 3GB ram at less than 17k.. What else u neee? Brilliant phone. Easy to use one handed. LOVE IT.
3|As for looks it is nice,but the internal memory less (9GB only free),battery getting discharged soon while using net,features are not up to.
4|Nice phone with all required features :) The only problem I could see is heating while playing game on phone else up to the mark.
2|It's okay type . rear camera is very bad. Battery back up is okay. Software is also not good.mobile is getting hanging while using few apps.
5|Amazon and Oneplus made my DAD diwali more colourful. Oneplus X is must at this price point. Quality and finishing of Oneplus X is unmatched
3|Mobile is very stylish, lightweight and handy. Camera is average, unit is very slippery, battery backup is average and also heats up a bit.
5|Good Value for money phone only drawback in my opinion is full glass body means extremely delicate or else I need to recommend this buy
5|Just go for it. Thank you Amazon for your fast delivery .I have received this mobile within 14 hours.stunning look and awesome performance.
4|Overall it's more than good. Only draw back is the battery backup. If charged in the morning Lasts only till bedtime(13hrs) on an average.
4|Ideal for the people who want a right balance of great looks and nifty features in their phone. Here is an invite code :IN52-AE84-C7AF-D0DF
5|Need an invite ?? I got them here free for you.. Mail me at " virm.parikshit@gmail.com. " Only valid till 1st December.
4|Looks wise the phone is Wonderful. Battery is the biggest drawback. Need to improve the oxygen is. Some time we experience extreme heating.
5|Amazing phone! I have read literally all the reviews and can't wait to get my hands on it. Wish OnePlus India would give me an invite!
5|Excellent phone at this price and back panel is also attractive.... Same configuration as one plus one with extendable memory feature.
5|After using it near about a month I wud say its best phone in market at this price . U will never get this kind of premium phone in market.
5|Good phone with good build quality
4|https://oneplus.net/x?kolid=0IWKOC
3|I got a champagne one, and I think Onyx would be better. The white and golden doesn't look that great. The battery back up is not so good.
5|Got the phone before the expected delivery date. Packing is at its best. Specifications are also unbeatable. Go for this phone..
3|Performance wise its too good. Camera is amazing. It gets heated while rebooting (only problem). Rest in this budget its an awesome phone.
4|https://www.amazon.in/review/review-your-purchases?ie=UTF8&asins=B016UPKCGU&channel=ec_sf&ref_=pe_1365671_54852341_cm_cr_ec_sf_remail_rat#
5|I have one plus x invitation. If any one need can ping me on nawalasansol@gmail.com Now it's over. I have already shared all the request.
4|One word for it awesome in all repsect I have got 3 invites for one plus X. Inform me if u need one. Mail Id: agam.srivas.agam@gmail.com
4|i have two invites to share, which should be used within 22 hours from now. IN35-OC56-BE85-DD55 IN8D-9F41-6EDD-0C54
4|Awesome mobile. But poor camera and battery backup is only 10 hours. Charging speed is very nice in only one an half hour fully charged
5|its a great phone at the price.....recommend this for sure. I have two Oneplus 2 invites. Contact me at adilchopra07@gmail.com if needed.
5|Amazing phone...It won't even have heat issues because It got 1080p camera unlike the oneplus one. 4k's generally heat up Taking into consideration that this is 1080p. 2520 amp is large than enough and shuld last abt 1 and half day in normal usage.and the AMOLED is amazing in the 5 inch screen.and even the ppi has been increased.thanks to oneplus. Overall an epic piece for the budget.!!
5|*Best in class display - dark theme looks great on oled display *Awesome camera quality specially the front cam beats out the competition *Butter smooth performance *Bloat free oxygen rom - it has all the features you need and nothing you don't need * absolute looker - glass with metal gives premium feel * a soft back cover is also provided which I personally liked very much
5|Great quality from the build quality to the hardware the phone screams premium and in this price range it is the best phone you can buy.
5|it is good product, i am useing this phone past 3 month, no any problam found etc hang, heting call drop , all ok camera is verry good,
2|all good but the flash is always on auto mode, cant change it from the default camera app. And the Proximity sensor has stopped working.
4|Good phone to buy at this price. Won't regret after buying, however some important apps are lacking for which I will give it a 4 star.
5|Pros - Great looking, easy to hold, nice performance. Cons - home screen button doesn't have back light & doesn't provide earphones
5|Amazing phone at this price. Super sleek. I just love it. Most importantly, my bose earphones mic work on these, so I am just too happy.
5|Anyone can use this invite for free INAB-D19C-5E94-6162 Precondition: When you receive your invite from one plus give it away for free.
5|best phone at 17k .i have a one plus invite if any one interested can contact me at mniscmt12345@gmail.com. it is valid for next 5 days.
5|I wouldn't say that it is the only best smartphone. But yess, for sure it is the best smartphone in this range. No competition at all :)
5|Excellent product with great feature. I have extra invite if anyone wants then mail me at b.techitashwani@gmail.com for 500rs only.
5|The one plus x meets my expectations. I got what I wanted and it came faster than their committed time for delivery. Can't ask for more.
3|No hindi langauge. Also can be made more user friendly. No Gallery . Difficut to find out cathche files . However overall speed is fast
5|1 month ...no complaints...in fact it is good. It hasn't slowed down yet. This request to review should be sent again after six months.
3|good phone decent battery life, washed out display, camera is ok, good touch and feel. Only gripe ? should have a seperate sd card slot
5|I have taken it for wife as birthday present. It is pretty good, handy to use, good picture clarity , nice cam. Overall very good.
5|I am using one plus X since fifteen days i find no lag absolutely. Its superb. Only one thing is missing i. e. Flash in photo mode.
5|My first android based phone and a very amazing experience. The phone is very cost effective and the camera quality is next to my DSLR.
5|Nice product go for it.. But don't forget to buy additional case.... Even though they are providing one transparent case in the package
4|The design is simply super, but facing problem with battery. To charge it is taking more time. Hope it will resolve in next OTA update.
5|I usually turn on the screen with a tap just to see the clarity of this device..! Must buy handy perfect size for boys fits in pants ..
4|well its almost perfect. except the dual speakers do not work as advertised. the screen is gorilla, amoled. performance is faster.
5|Great phone for it's price. The screen is awesome. The battery is goog & the build quality is also great. Three major thing to consider
5|Product Received Next Day Morning in Indore ... AGAIN AN AWESOME PHONE FROM ONE PLUS Complete Review After 1 Week
4|Any one have invite of one plus x
5|This is the best phone under 20k.
3|Hanging problem during flight mold on, some time call log and contact details disappear then I have to restart, this is repeated one.
1|faulty phone delivered with rear camera not working and have to go0 thru hoops to get it fixed - an extremely unpleasant experience !!
1|i have got one plus x and it has been dropped just less than 2 feet and screen gt broken.I dont know display is a gorilla protected...
1|Broke the glass just with the drop of 3ft, gave for replacement of glass in and since 2 weeks they don't have stock, please don't buy.
3|The phone is not working properly. And only black screen is seen in display and I want the problems to solved. Pls check the problrem.
4|Good phone ,good amazon service but oneplus customer care service centre service very poor. Grow up more . Mobile phones are to good .
5|Nice Product under 20K. Except few Cons: No NFC, Cant have dual sim n expandable memory both. Battery is good but not great.
5|A must buy phone within the range of 20000 Good looking body with glass finish makes it look more better.. Good camera quality.. '
4|The product delivery was so fast... ?. .. Phone is. Oka but am not satisfied with the camera quality comparing with one plus two
5|Couldn't have asked for anything better for this price! The perfect Mid-range smartphone. Don't bother thinking twice before buying it
4|I have an invite and I am not intended to use it. So if anyone is looking for invite, drop me mail for invite at: jiten.iitk@gmail.com
3|
4|Best surprise gift for my spouse. Good specs, smooth touch, doesnt lag, awesome camera in this price segment and very light weighted.
4|Its nice handset to use......and also good style of body....I most like of this phone that is selfieeee cameraaa awesome clearity....
4|Amazing look,good performance. Once you enable soft key in your device you can't use hard key for minimize and go back.
5|Amazing phone, as expected i shud say. wonderful service by Amazon as well. Im just loving it. Thank you Amazon.
5|One best thing is screen... Looks classy... camera. processor, ram are all good... battery is also sufficient... overall a good buy..
4|Nice Phone. Convenient to handle and good looks. Also 3 GB Memory gives enough space for Apps and the speed is good. Value for Money.
4|The phone is really good. But there is no option to save the camera pics directly in SD card. Hope Oneplus to team would fix it soon.
4|One of the first best phone in this range. Only drawback is some additional features which oneplus one has is not there in this.
5|At this price band a very powerful and awesome look phone. Lets hope the day to day performance will also be as per that expectation.
5|Superb phone....i have one plus. If Any One Want Invite For One Plus X or one plus 2 invites ? If you Mail Me On vorapd22@gmail.com
2|Phone stops sometimes. The whats app application does not work. Cannot type in there. The phone beomea slow to react to instructions
4|Excellent phone. Only the side buttons for volume are little lower than usual. Otherwise excellent. I loved it throughly.
5|I bought this for my uncle and he is happy with this so far. Let me update the review is I hear any thing good or bad in particular.
2|Hangs sometime,,, not like as much promoted by amazon as a flagship killer phone Ok but not the best Sometime also heated
4|This device is near perfect.the only problem is little bit heating at the back when used heavily or while using phone while charging
4|Well made product and is an ideal choice for users with more than a basic need for all the features of google apps, camera and chat.
5|Seems to be nice. Since I am a poor user smart phones I am unable to assess it's full functions. But I like it. It's enough for me.
5|It's camera quality is superb but its takes lots of memory .one photo takes approx 3-4mb of data can u suggest me a solution to this
5|Perfect Mobile in 17k - Real Value for money. If you need invite to purchase this awesome cell contact me via Whatsapp @ 09922850075
5|Nice and worth money. Build Quality is awesome... Feels like a premium phone.... Better than the hyped and high prices apple phones.
5|Amazing Service by Amazon. Got it in one and a half day. Awesome Cellphone, Used it for 3 hours continuously no problem at all.
5|Anyone wants an invite, here it is IN07-2E3E-ABA0-317E Use this to buy oneplus X within 1 day 23 hrs from now.
5|Do any one have oneplus x invites if any one have so plzz give me my no. Is 8878785001 nd email id is shrivastavasourabh05@gmail.com
3|Use it ----- INDA-6D62-6E2D-DD97
5|Almost perfect for average users if u don't want NFC oe Dual SIM. Performs well in Games, benchmarks. Super bright screen
1|I have bought a one plus x mobile 7days before there is no call summary after the call ends I want to decide to return that product
4|Nice overall!!! Got the delivery in 2 days. Just a bit of a heating problem when used while charging. Otherwise, it's great to use.
3|Phone's lock button not working properly.. Most of the time when i press lock button..it doesnt respond and display doesnt get ON .
4|Its a very good phone It has a great stylish body The inmer features are good Just the battery backup is not so good
4|Oneplus X is a wonderful device.Make me feel like a premium device and no other device can perform this much in this price point!!!
4|Faced the common issues of Memory card, finger print magnet, But performance wise its bang on ! ( Memory card issue got resolved )
5|It's very good looking and performance is also quite brilliant. Updates are also coming very frequently. Service is also very good.
5|Great phone High spec good camera 4g connectivity Only battery is con 6hrs continues use Normal use will stand 36hrs
4|Thank you Amazon for delivering the product before the time frame as per the request. Phone is absolutely great and worth for money
3|Not a great phone. very poor battery. They say 13 pixel camera but it doesn't look like. it is good in style. sleek and in size :-)
5|Beautiful device. I have multiple Oneplus 2 and X invites. If anyone is interested to buy then contact me on guestmode007@gmail.com
5|This is a really good looking phone with good camera and great screen. Anyone needing invite can call me at 9910062627. 40hrs left.
4|Product came in the best shape however phone is getting heated with few applications. But phone is awesome in everything
5|Yet another great product from ONEPLUS. ONEPLUS X and ONEPLUS TWO invites are available to share. whatsapp +919495054201.
4|The product is worth every penny but a few tweaks are needed: 1) back light for physical buttons missing! 2) No gallery, have to view every photo go back and click to another to change. 3) mic issue on incoming calls sometimes. A logo on the front would be nice, without it the phone looks plain on the front. Other wise `so far so good'
4|It would be better if Oneplus releases 1+X 64GB version. Then it will be the good news for those who need more memory and dual sim
3|Killer looks. Makes you addicted with its performance . But very sorry to say camera doesn't reach your minimum expectations.
4|Fantastic product. value for money. It should get with the headphones. I need to by headphones separately that added Rs 1000 cost.
4|Great phone with good specs and value for money... If anyone wants an invite for this phone.. Email me at jason.prabu@gmail.com!!!
4|phn cost only 17k with killer specs ...........invite available if anybody want email me amalbharathan1994@gmail.com this is ma id
5|Another feather in the cap for OnePlus team. I wouldn't say that this is a flagship killer but it has hit the nail at the right place. A premium looking phone for ur budget. The best part is that being a 5" display phone, it fits comfortably in your palm unlike other phones of the same display size. Finally a treat if you don't want to spent too much money elsewhere.
5|Excellent product... more than worth for money spent... just more than iphone clarity...good high configuration. Overall superb..
4|Good, fast and life..... Gets heated wen more than 2hrs continuous usage.. Camera vry gud.. Overall more features with less price
5|Amazing phone... Both the cameras are excellent... Some issues with camera app but i am sure they will get it sorted with updates
5|Nicely designed,slim,easy to handle with one hand,smooth touch,browsing speed excellent,front camera awesome.nice battery back up
3|Good phone,apart from few technical glitches ,excellent battery life, camera clarity is OK..overall experience is above average .
2|Don't want to recommend this product. Battery is draining too fast and camera quality is very poor. I have returned this product.
4|Build is very good. So i like the build factor and handling is very good. Lag in performance. Screen ambiance has some issue
5|http://onepl.us/IN40-20F8-F59A-813D Thats an invitation. Free to use. Great phone. I have had no issues with it so far.
3|The battery is really poor. It drained from 70 to 30 percent in just 2 hrs of net usage. One plus do something for this
5|Amazing phone i thought it looks like iphone 5 but it is more beautiful then it super phone best choice under 20k camera is super
5|Bought it for my dad few days ago.. Loving it... Got few invites to share, if any one interested mail me at markiv66778@gmail.com
5|Amazing phone. I am using it for past few weeks and extremely delighted. No issues faced so far. The picture quality are superb.
5|great phone. perfect pricing. other brands need to take lessons from one plus. it is the perfect balance of quality and pricing.
1|its not gud i hv used it for 1 month till now but it hangs alot. it dont even show my contacts sometime. i didnt like this phone
2|No option for dual sim , one slot for sim another SD Card. If you use dual SIM then you can not use SD card and extended memory.
5|just you can't have a better mobile than this in this range, even in 25k range this is going to take lead, awesome mobile phone.
2|Not as good as I expected it to be. There are much better phones I have used in the recent past ...Gionee ELife 7, InFocus, Etc.
4|It's really suberb mobile in cost of Rs. 16999/-. If your budget is under 20k then don't give any second thought and go for it..
4|The phone is good, no issues, but why there is no backlight for bottom (hardware) buttons (home, back etc.)??? so surprising....
5|What a amazing phone, a powerful device in a premium glass finished body. Flashed Cyanogen rom on it and now very happy with it.
5|Best phone under 20 k Display and camera is awesome If u need invite for OPX ( Paid ) mail me at imba.dota@hotmail.com
4|The overall package is really good. Dont know wats wrong with the camera. Its 13mp but its just poor. Rest everything is proper.
5|Can anyone give me one invite ?
4|Need an invite for One Plus X..
5|perfect for the price.. no unwanted stuff that high end phones include to justify their high price..awesome so far in all areas
5|Sheer awesomeness! Absolutely brilliant design, snappy performance, everything you ever wanted at 17k and much more!
5|Amazing phone.. Got it delivered in 2 days! Thanks Amazon for quick delivery! Most stylish phone in this price bracket! Love it
2|Feature score 7 Looks 8 Battery 3 very poor stand by time. One plus x team kindly try to have A BETTER BATTERY
4|The phone is awesome! Except the rear camera clarity! No heating issues found as such.. Display is clear due to Amoled screen.
5|I received my OnePlus X on ~9th Nov. I am moving away from iPhone 6. Was looking for speed and customization options available on Android. Here are my 2 cents: Love: -Display - Amoled. (Never thought I will enjoy movies on a tiny phone screen, before this) -Size (5") and form factor (thin and light profile). Nothing other than Samsung is available in 5". (Sorry I am anti > 5" display and anti Samsung phones) -Look and feel -Glass back Pros: -Snapdragon 80x Series Fast Processor -3 GB Ram -> Speed will hopefully stay even with many apps -Expandable memory upto 128GB, now that with Marshmallow it will be treated more like internal storage. -Price -> ~INR 17K / $250 Cons (or missing): -Fingerprint reader :( - Biggest Bummer -Undefined wait for Marshmellow. :( disappointed. (Only two ways around it are, choose Nexus series or switch to Cyanogenmod) Now waiting for Cyanogenmod. good news work has already begin: http://forum.xda-developers.com/oneplus-x/help/oneplus-x-cyanogen-t3247186
3|The flash doesn't work for camera. I dont know if ts a UI Issue or the back cam doesn't support flash. The flash option is available only for Video. Apart from that the external feature is too good, cam clarity is good, but still not better than one plus one, even though the rear is same pixels and also front being 8mp, the one plus one is better.
4|Loved the phone immensely. I'm really gonna use this for long. The looks and performance are great. What more can I wish for.
5|Mobile. The design is Awesome. Front Camera also good, Processor speed also very nice. Overall it is a very good handy mobile
5|It has been one month.. Awesome experience... Sleek n stylish. Fast browsing and navigation. Special gesture option are Good.
3|Phone is ok, however, phone would have given more facilities for that price, compare to other phones available in the market.
3|Love the design but rear camera ia big thumb down, a cheap mobile camera would perform better i think.. Other wise good phone
5|This phone is supperb.. Nice and stylist look. All application runs very softly. Really affordable smart phone in this prize.
5|Good phone. Earphones and tampered glass should also be provided in the box. Lacks 2% in music sound quality than sony phones
5|Amazing product at this price.It gives you a feeling of iphone. got couple of invites, mail me at artshai.shop@gmail.com
5|Any one Need invite.....contact me @imrrj ....on twitter....only 48 hrs left....so any one want just tweet or msg in my inbox
5|Purchased this phone 1 month back and now the phone is not working.Its just not getting switched on. Not expected by oneplus.
5|Amazing phone from One Plus. Looks, feels and performs like the premium phone that it should be.Awesome delivery from Amazon.
5|OnePlus X (Onyx) - Invite OnlyAmazing, fantastic, incredible. Stylish, High PPI (440), flexible in hands.
3|Pros: Classy looks Decently gud cam Perfect screen size. Nice cam. Problems: Despite of inserting memory card, its not able to detect nor I can move any app on sd card. Known software issue from one plus. Camera lags at times. I am still trying to adjust to it and wondering if I need to replace it yet .
5|This is my 102th phone and can't resist to say that OPX is one of the best phone i have ever used in its class,Awesome phone
5|Is this product effective at this rate? I had placed order today itself.. fear of battery problems. If it actually persists.
5|Is this product effective at this rate? I had placed order today itself.. fear of battery problems. If it actually persists.
5|Excellent Phone.... go for it... If any one need an invite email me at "sdhu1984@gmail.com" ASAP, I have 5 invites.
5|everything is just awesome in this phone!! and thank you amazon for delivering it in one day!! #AnotherHappyCustomer :D
5|Best phone at a great price. I am specially happy with the camera Recommend it to every one who asks me about phones.
3|Performance wise it's ok but there is no gallery and some files are not easy to delete and the battery is not upto the mark
5|Looks super, performance better than various bigger brands ,battery life very good can bit many over expensive cellphones .
4|Nice product and value for money. Very slim and built quality is good. Some heating issues, otherwise the phone is perfect.
4|The phone has a great design, great performance and a good camera. The only trouble is the oxigen os, its just too buggy...
3|Its better, only problem was sharing slot for SD card and SIM2. if that is added to the product, its a great one to handle.
4|Really its nice and camera is not that great and few bugs which can be improved with future software updates and its worthy
5|IF ANY1 NEED INVITE...GUYSS I HAVE FOR UH....WHTSAPP ME ON 7404215137...AND GUYS THY R FOR FREE...JUST ENJOY THE PHONE.....
5|Awesome phone , Best in Price , and if any buddy looking For invite Contact on Whatsapp , My whatsap No is 7737802125
5|Phone has very good build quality. It looks premium phone in hand. Display is so bright and colourful, it can differntiate colors easily. After use of 4 days Pros: 1.Good batery life. 2.Display 441ppi 3.Callng clarity 4.No any lag(first 11 hours) 5.Premium feel 6.UI is same as pure stock android. Cons: User available memory is 10.5gb.
4|sometimes it behaves wired, vibrates or shutdown on its own may be some setting issues. otherer feature wise a good phone.
1|Phone speaker is not working properly, getting heat in short period. When speaker is not phone speakers are not working.
5|the promise....the goods.....the expectation......the joy........worthy of waiting for 72 hours. thanx team Amazon!!!
4|The phone is very handy and neat but the OS has a few glitches. The charger doesn't charge at times. Not perfect but good.
5|Full value for money Excellent battery backup Awesome display really one of the better smartphone available today !!!
3|there are many bugs in the default apps. default apps are not upto the mark, we have to rely on the other apps from market
5|This is a excellent smartphone at a very reasonable price of year 2015. I really fell in love with this super smart phone.
5|This is a excellent smartphone at a very reasonable price of year 2015. I really fell in love with this super smart phone.
3|I'm bit confuse to buying this...after many reviews...is it worth to buying or go for other companies mobile in this range
4|nice display ... awesome performance till today... However the headphones are not provided but overall phone is awesome...
5|What A excellent smartphone I really love the mobile. would you like it and buy it . you really like it . I'm guarantee...
5|Its a great product with all the prwmium featured...if amuone intersted for an invite contact me at anirudhmehra@gmail.com
4|If anyone needs an invite contact me on - washingtonashwin@gmail.com I have an invite which is valid till tomorrow !!
5|Use this invite IN11-44FF-B3D5-7ED9 Hey all, pls use this to buy yourself new phone. And do thank me once done.
4|Awesome Product. Also, I've some invites for One Plus X and One Plus Two. If anyone interested, whatsapp me at 9541635076.
5|Just loved the phone. excellent featured at this price. no lag or no overheating to an extent considering the glass body.
5|A very good phone, nice resolution s for pics, apps also work good. Have been using it from 2 months now, all going good.
5|It's a very great phone with perfect finishing, light weight and very slim. Good in performance. It's a complete package.
4|It's a very one of the nice phone in the market having all the required features. Camera quality is very good.
4|too good design (iphone standard indeed) 3 GB ram helps a lot, only issue is the OS is not that good , overall I am happy
5|Awesome phone.. in one word.. only one complaint only a dedicated slot for SD card is missing.. thats the only grievance.
5|Excellent product, really loved the phone. Nothing can beat this phone at this price and at the cost that its being sold.
4|There is some lag now and then. The home screen gets blank for 3-4 seconds. Other than this all good. Indeed a good deal.
5|Amazing phone ! Killer Looks ! I have extra invites with me. Please contact @ archit.hello@gmail.com
4|the charger inside my box is not working...specifically the usb cord what should i do to change it? please help
5|Good phone. Battery capacity should have been bit more, leaving that with dual sim and plesant OS, that phone works fine.
5|Extremely premium product.. Had a problem with the first piece, but amazon replaced the phone in 2 days... Impressed
5|Great phone , No problems till date. Also got 5 invites from Oneplus, contact me at saranshvfx@gmail.com if you need any.
5|excellent phone with superb built quality and nice feel, does every thing u desire. Truely satisfied with its performance
5|This phone is best phone in price1700. iPhone style & Gesture are more effective to make this phone best one for me.
5|Camera quality is awesome.... N cell is also awesome.... Interested ones can contact for invite @.. akshay25994@gmail.com
4|Can anyone say me what's the battery life as it mentioned only 2525? And moto x play or oneplus x -which is better ?
5|Bought the product the minute the sale opened at 2pm. Getting a Glass back with metal frame at Rs 17k is the best deal ever. The only thing I'm concerned about is if memory card slot works fine as some have reported problems. Also another thing to consider is if OPX will receive Android 6 M. Other than that, its bang for the buck
3|Battery performance very is poor. I need to recharge twice in a day if I use internet. No gallary for photos and videos.
5|Worth buying. Definitely. I've got so many compliments for the looks of this phone. Works really smooth.
4|I bought the phone yesterday.it amazing designed.but external memory not available.and mobile little bit heating problem
4|The only issue is the memory. If we buy other oneplus mobile, you get good internal memory. Otherwise it's a good phone.
5|beautiful phone...works well. no heating no lags. latest updates sorts camera issue and sd card issue. worth a buy.
5|Amazon India should gift me this phone Please gift me this phone I am waiting for the gift to come to my house
3|People who have moderate usage have purchase this phone because apps are not moved in SD Card. camera have nice clarity.
5|anyone wants invite whats app me or mail me...for the requierment i have... 7878287974 Parthlove2627@yahoo.com
4|Awesome phone.. Have 3 invites for oneplus. And a one plus two invite.. Anyone interested ping me on whatsapp 9738273561
3|Good look and feel...but boring home screen ..looks normal android screen and options. I donot see big customuziesd OS..
5|Having a Invite for OnePlus X. Anyone needing it. Ping me on 9873214463 I'll book it for you. By the way, amazing phone!
5|sexiest phone that I have ever seen simply cool and perfect Pros:the phone cons:the invites go search for them
4|Just received the phone!!! The phone is slim and easy to hold in one hand.Everything works fine.Update is available to download once I switched it on.camera quality is good.sound quality is good..The display is viewable even in outdoor.Will update the battery performance soon.If u hav an invite ,never hesitate.Go for it.
5|One of the best and sexist phone But lack of accessories like proper screen protector, Oneplus power bank n all...
4|Phone look is very good & camera quality is gud,especially front camera quality is awesome,Battery backup is only 8hrs,
5|One of the best phones in this price range may be you won't get the same specifications in other premium mobile models.
5|I hv been used since 20 day ,not found any major issue. Some software issue there but I hope it's solve through update.
4|I love the performance and the display.. Fast and crisp.. The camera needs a few adjustments but overall is pretty good
5|awosome phone with great feature ...i have invite if someone wants to buy than contact me or whats app me on 9555511166
4|IF ANY ONE INTERESTED IN BUYING A INVITE FOR A REASONABLE PRICE CONTACT mkrocksldh@gmail.com valid for next 40 hrs
4|Awesome phone..heating issues are there while playing some games.looks stunning. Nice ui..no lags..battery life 1 day..
4|I bought this specifically because this was a smaller version of the one plus series. Phone really feels good on hand!
5|Excellent product.., am a fan of the one plus phones. This is my third one plus phone purchase. Completely satisfied...
4|Excellent phone with great configuration but i am unlucky i didnt get the invite yet. if possible looking for an invite
5|Guyzz any1 with a spare invite...kindly pass it on to agarwal.dinoo@gmail.com...I cannot wait till the open sale...pls
3|Look wise the phone is awesome. But it hangs frequently, the screen doesnot unlock quickly. Rest its good.
4|Simply beautiful phone after too many thoughts I finally feeling happy about purchase and amazing product deliver time
3|There are some bugs. Dual sim is not working properly. Also Whatsapp down loaded audio clips are not playing properly.
5|http://onepl.us/INB8-1997-7ED2-AEA8 Use this my shareable invite whosoever wants to buy the phone Good Luck.
5|Every features are good except the software.. Camera options are very basic compare to any other phone in the market.
5|A excellent smartphone with high end specs and competitively priced. The delivery was well before the scheduled dates.
5|VERY Nice Phone with stunning looks. IMPRESSIVE Camera shutter quality. Buttery smooth touch and display quality.
3|Can anyone help me with panel light. I search it in settings but can't find it.. N also having problem with memory card. Can't move apps, images, videos, etc.. Should I need to replace it???? N it heats when on charging, playing games... Overall performance is good. But with few problems..... I think to replace it....
5|Great phone and service!!!!!
5|Great phone and service!!!!!
1|1)This product packing contains no user manual 2) This mobile sim card tray is very tight and my sim card got struck inside this mobile and Service center is also helpless. 3)Unreliable product
4|nice Phone. Enjoying the phone while using. its good good. back i side of the phone is awsome. some time its got hang
4|very chic looking fast and easy to use would have liked it if they had included a handsfree in the kit also
5|simply awesome no other words to say no lag, no heating , no issues. cam is good, performance is extreme.
5|I have 4 invites for oneplusx and I want to give away these invites free. e mail me at. paavan.rajpal28@gmail.com.
5|Amazing phone. Want to buy it very badly. Please someone share me an invite :) so that I could buy this cooool phone.
5|Overall a very Good phone. I have an extra invite code ping me (ram.ms.kumar@gmail.com) will be sharing it for free..
5|Phone is awesome phone looks like iPhone 6 Solid display clarity is good Any one want invite message me @9704075551
5|Cool as expected....amoled screen is superb.Downloaded 7 apps but speed is still same. Music output is great love it.
5|Excellent at its class and best among all the competitors ,with great features embedded in a nutshell for daily use.
4|Flash is not getting on with Photo click otherwise its working while video capture. Rest is working Butter on Bread.
4|Looking wise very nice sound and camera also very good battery can be updated to more mah but stand by time is good
5|Love it ....Don't go as per talks by people here & there ...Buy it & feel the product & its style, looks are lovely.
3|Not as per expectations as I have really high hopes. Phone get heated on high uses. Camera is good. Screen is great.
5|Awesome phone .. Bought for my daughter .. Fully loaded with extraordinary features.. Absolute steal for the price!!
5|Great phone. A headphone is the only missing item in the package otherwise it's a perfect phone for the price range.
5|an awesome phone. The display is crystal sharp. THE SPEAKERS ARE AWESOME. TOTAL VALUE FOR MONEY SPENT
4|Good battery backup , I am getting complete day on 3g . software still has to be refined but no problems with that .
5|OnePlus X is absolutely amazing phone. If any one want to purchase OnePlus X here is an invite INC5-E543-1930-11D7
5|OnePlus X is absolutely amazing phone. If any one want to purchase OnePlus X here is an invite INC5-E543-1930-11D7
4|if u want an invite then contact me on vishnumeena2008@gmail.com within 3 days because after that it's not useful...
5|Awesome phone. Never heard up. Battery good. Camera pics under low light are super. Totally worth it. Never hangs.
5|This is an excellent phone. I have got 9 shareable invite. Please email me at sivam.shivam@gmail.com if needed one.
5|1 OnePlus X Invite Giveaway Contact this email address Biswas.pallab33@gmail.com Only one day left.
2|Battery sucks. Won't stay long even with a single sim. Won't detect SD card as well. Waited so much for this one :(
5|Amazing phone and price range...need an invite just mail me nitinkaushik4444@gmail You will love this phone...
5|Well, plus x is, as expected, Superb. Sleek, stylush, and with all superlative features. And yes at such a bargain.
5|Hi , Please share invite if one have. This is bit urgent. Thanks in advance. please share @ rajnish.jha@hotmail.com
5|This is an amazing mobile. If anyone can share their invite, i would be thankful. Send it to ahmedrkhan94@gmail.com
5|Awesome Phone.. The price The design is simply out of this world.. Better than OnePlus 1 and 2..hats off to OnePlus
4|Great hardware, gorgeous build. Performance is left wanting(games as basic as Subway Surfer are dropping frames), so is the battery life. Feels great to hold in the hand and the display is just fantastic. I am reserving one star because with hardware like this there shouldn't be any performance issues.
4|Good in price n perfect phone ,look wise sexy , slim ,camera is too gud rear n front , gud memory , no , lag prob
5|Sexiest phone in d world. Camera quality awesome. Lightweight. But storage is not sufficient, the only problem.
5|Guys i want urgent invite for oneplus x As it was gift to my wife Give invite on guptakarpuram@gmail.com
4|Here are few invite codes, Enjoy! IN3B-6B99-8B0D-9D99 IN70-DF7C-CFC8-C7A0 IN2A-2457-857E-E79A
5|One plus X is just awesome..the design is perfect..it performs really well..battery life and camera is very good..
4|Anyone want one plus X invite? got 2invites to share Whatsapp me at 7204697901 Whatsapp only.
5|Superb Design, with nice features, one thing that disappoints me is they didn't provide headset with this mobile..
5|Another great product from Oneplus. Looks and feel great in the hands. Can't believe it is jist available for 17k.
5|If any1 can help me buying this fon by sending free invite, i ll be highly thankful. whatsapp no. is +917042500417
4|Not a good deal, bcoz Mi 4c has same featured mobile, priceof 16gb +2gb ram is 13k and 32 GB +3gb ram is 15k.
4|Good job oneplus... Awesome phone...totally worth it...and did i mention the beautiful display you get with this..
5|Received the product yesterday, and I was way too happy at the build quality, the camera is very nice. Battery is lasting a day as of now with just below the heavy duty usage. Gaming experience is superb. No second thought about the phone.. It's simply amazing. Love 1+ X
5|All Are Fine in Phone Battery Life is Very poor....i buy only 2 days but Battery is not proper Respond What i do?
5|It's very good phone, as per my expectations it has a gud battery backup, display, camera and internet speed....!
4|Good features and elegant display. lock screen is hanging sometimes, no problems faced with charging and heating.
5|The phone has delivered wha it promise to deliver. The looks are really exceptional and the performance is good.
4|Buy this phone for looks.. You will love to touch and feel this device.. Phone does all basic things brilliantly.
4|Excellent phone value for money under 20k budget.battery could have been more stronger as it doesn't last all day
4|Congrats! You've got an invite to buy the OnePlus X. Claim it at http://onepl.us/IN03-C3FD-3ACC-B998 #NeverSettle
4|Haii i have a invite to claim within 2 days if anyone wants pls contact me thru gmail jithumonkalarical@gmail.com
4|Awesome phone, light weight , worthy, but only disappointment is that there is no any ear phone with this product
5|Anyone who requires an invite please get in touch on 08041277009... Brilliant Phone... Using one at the moment...
5|100% top class mobile. Team one plus x rocks. Best phone under 17k. Need invite for opx? Contact 9444329511.
5|OnePlus appears to have created a well-specced, attractive, and premium handset, at a very desirable price point.
3|This is getting heated when we browse or play any games for some... this is only the draw back otherwise its ok.
3|Cover glass broke in three days and don't know where to replace it in Delhi and as such customer care is weakest
4|oneplus x has an excellent structure but battery life and zooming clarity is not good enough for the money value
3|Battery is the only issue .I returned it after some trouble shooting procedure provided by OP.But it didnt work.
5|One of the outstanding Smart phone available in market. Business folks , X is designed for you. Go ahead and buy
4|Good product and value for money. Some of the features in samsung galaxy series could have been replicated here.
4|got few one plus x invite... if anyone needs it please mail me on chirag91chauhan@gmail.com with subject invite.
4|good phone value for money you can't put 2 Sim and one memory card together only one Sim and one memory card
5|amazing phone by ONEPLUS....I am using it from past 1 week.....no glitches.....go for this beautiful beast......
4|Have an invite for one plus x and one plus 2.. Contact before 25.11.2015 for the invite at ashoksrao90@gmail.com
5|Few more invite I have if anyone needs.... INDC-0545-DEA1-8C8A IN29-6E35-6E00-98BB INB1-07E4-A379-BC93 Thanks
4|G8 service nice handset 1 star deducted as no earphones in the box You have to buy earphone separately
5|Really amazing phone very cheap thanks oneplus and amazon , please send me a invite I'm ready to buy eagerly ...
5|INVITES AVAILABLE TO BUY THIS AMAZING PHONE WHATSAPP 8050445553 INVITES ARE LIMITED CONTACT FAST
3|Quality of the material of the phone is good. I was not satisfied with the software. There are many flaws in it
5|Very good combination of software and hardware. Easy to handle. Good battery backup. Worth for the money spent.
4|So far the best Android smartphone I have used.buttery smooth operating,gorgeous screen, beautiful body design.
1|The battery is discharging very rapidly battery/ phone is overheated quite quickly even under normal operation.
4|Best in its class.but there is some glitches in camera & software performance. Need timely software upgrations.
5|Excellent performance... Cam clarity good. Battery also very good.. iam saying after using 1 month. Good to go
1|I purchased this phone on 4/12/2015 and am having battery problem. It gets discharged fast without usage also.
4|Excellent. Great finish. Didnt feel like slowing down. GUI is basic, should have been improved. Camera is 7/10.
2|Performance is good. Battery pack up problem and I faced censor issues while making calls and it heats up soon.
5|Soooper phone... Great value for money. I have invites contact me at : vinaykumarcs.ait1274@gmail.com
4|AMAZING PHONE IN THIS PRICE RANGE WITH AMAZINGFEATURES. need invite can contact me on riclove9@gmail.com
5|Super phone. Very pleased.
5|worth of every single buck
5|Phone is very good for daily use, excellent for gaming, pictures and clarity on the phone is really very good.
5|Product fit and finish not as premium as expected. Anyways for the price, its a decent phone with decent specs
5|Awesome .....!!Gud looking and slim too The best part of it is Experiencing oxygen os and Camera(selfies)
5|GREAT MOBILE AND THIS MOBILE SHOULD BE AVAILABLE IN 6 INCH SD CARD SHOULD BE SHOW IN STORAGE ITS SHOW IN FILES
5|It's an awesome phone,the design is great,performance is also awesome,considering the price point, go for it.
3|Not satisfied. Heats up soon. It's the only problem I faced. Rest the phone is great. Kindly look into this.
4|Didn't disappoint me. Worth the risk I have taken going for Chinese product after being with Samsung and HTC.
4|The white and champagne is beautiful. Great size. Much better than the larger 1 plus phones for ease of use
5|So far amazing.... Working fine.. Heating issues area thr unlike other phones.... No body can help it out...
5|Display is super, before using this mobil pls update the mobil other wise you facing some issues, great mobil
4|Nice Product. I am considering value for money. Those who look for stylish android they can choose this.
4|phone is very sexy, gud looking., handy, slimmer than 6s, but now adays tempered is not available in market,
2|Touch screen not working properly As compared to one plus x J7 Samsung is far better & Rate also less
4|I very much love my phone by looks and my rating would be short of 5 stars because of heating issues at times
5|This is one the best mobile at the given price with best touch & very smooth working with less response time.
4|Amazing phone.........very good both camera cliyarity ..........good space and.......same as iPhone 6 .......
1|I am facing issue with MIC, when i put my phone on Speaker mode and change to normal mode....MIC doesn't work
5|the most awesome phone by one plus if anyone want invite plz email me on chahar_mandeep@yahoo.co.in
5|Invites for op2 and opx availaible. Contact at paliwalshikhar@gmail.com . Added in cart can do cod to anyone
4|Great phone !! Sleek, good exteriors ,easy to handle and great Display., One word. "value for money"
3|good moblie but 2 issues 1.[main]-NO OPTION FOR MOVING APPS ON TO MEMORY CARD 2.LOW BATTERY BACK UP
3|its only about looks.performance is okay.Camera should have been better. Battery should have been better too!
5|looks superb! then any other phone in this segment, but! I find some heating problems while playing big games
5|Awesome phone! I truly recommend it to others. For INVITE contact me @ shravankacharya97@gmail.com
5|Awesome phone with low price..it has excellent features..I have invite contact me through whats up 9652000907
3|Not worth the price. The hardware that phone has isnot worth the price, also its way too slippery.
5|I bought one plus two , but this phone is also a class phone and I m writing this without using phone but definitely phone will be a class phone and I have got extra invites for buying this phone I can do order for you , if you want then mail me at - rishabh.rishabh.1999@gmail.com
1|The product was a defected piece in which the camera (13mp) was showing blurred image. Apart from that, there was some issue in connectivity, it din't connect to my wifi.
5|Nice phone. I am just learning about this phone. I have no idea how to downloading hd vedio songs and movie.
5|Its a really good product and Amazon service is very good. Excellent delivery service by amazon..
3|phone features ok but one fault will be thr......can't 2 put dual sim and memory card...........in same time
5|Very good product for the price...light and fast, bought it as a gift for my father who absolutely loves it.
4|Cons. No headset with the packing. We need to get one separately. Everything is working great for me...
5|Awsm...totally worth it, iam using it frm last one mnth.......the best thing >>>no hang problem.
5|Superb phone, no complaints at all. Also, kudos to Amazon for its speedy delivery and customer support.
2|Please think twice before you buy this , phone looks awesome , with worst battery backup and heating issue.
5|I want to sell my phone Sim not inserted yet. Looking for an upgrade 17k Pratikrick@gmail.com
5|Very Happy with the Phone. CON. Screen Visibility is good in the sunlight. Good Build Quality
5|If anyone has an invite ....plzzz contact me. ambujsrivas@gmail.com Whatsap-9936944509
5|Phone is excellent but I paid full price. It is on sale 2000/- less in less than 15 days after I bought it.
5|Everything very nice in this prodcut. It is working good performance. Very Easy to use and compac for hand.
3|Not so good as expected. OS not at all good. and i think this is a phone which is released without testing.
4|Only one thing - - - just awesome.. Anyone in need of an invite... Kindly mail er.rahul118@gmail.com.
5|Good product.. Camera, Display and design are really excellent.. Very fast delivery from amazon !
4|Just ordered this product...If any one wants an invite they can contact me on atik.ahmed_shaikh@hotmail.com
5|3 GB RAM and Snapdragon 801 are top notch.INVITE available for cheap. Contact 9594016888 via Whatsapp only.
5|IN06-CBF3-54E5-9D2C One plus x invite..expires in 24hrs..already activated jus use it for the purchase
5|Awesome phone worth the cash.....and I have an invite for this beast any1 interested WhatsApp me 9003270081
5|I have one plus x invite...if anybody needs... mail me at amruthpradeep7@gmail.com...hurry before it last!!
5|INCD-C8BC-6B1E-FE64 enjoy
4|The procurement was hassle free and delivered on time. The product is good there is no room for complaint.
2|My mistake for ordering the oneplus X instead of oneplus one. Oneplus X isn't a great phone for the price.
4|Good handset with robust body,looks sleek and looks quite stout and doesn't lag while doing multi tasking.
3|Everything is good at this price. Touch lags a bit when compared to other mobiles in the same price range.
3|My mobile is heating problem only five minutes charge phone heating video call to be same heating problem
4|great phone. camera is awesome. i mean such a great phone and that too for only 17k. hats off one plus.
5|Excellent phone with amazing features.. Worth with this price. Should need a fingerprint sensor.
5|Yes it's a very good to me the phone is very good and working fine but I am not happy with Amazon services
5|This phone has amazing performance And it feels very expensive in hand. Not a perfect one though
5|Free Invites 1. http://onepl.us/IN5C-5DCC-72FF-C8F9 2. http://onepl.us/INEA-12C2-913B-3BA7
2|Very beautiful design and look. I returned the product because of the high radiation during data connection. I was facing dizziness and headache whenever data connection was switched on. It was such a beautiful phone but I was very disappointed by the radiation level.
5|Awesome looks with great specs and ultimate display. Slow motion video making is a surprise for me though
5|Excellent phone with amazing features.. Fall in love with this handset... Overall performance is too good
2|Returned the phone due to issues of micro phone. OnePlus Invite wait, is not really worth for such phone!
5|It's good except for the fact it doesn't have a gallary. Smooth,slim nice device I wish it was octa core.
5|Superb quality and speed. Only one drawback is OK, it's taking lots space in memory, it should be improve
5|look wise Awesome, performance is too good, and surprisingly battery life also good as having on 2500 mah
2|Phone seems gud but camera not working. Blurred images it shows. asked for replacement. Lets see..:(
4|I have an invite available which is valid till November 26, 2015, 7:00 p.m. WhatsApp me on +91-9560139423
4|I like the finishing of phone,easy to handle,battery life not so good ,overall performance good till date
5|I have 3 invites. I want to give these invite away & free. Email me at paavan.rajpal28@gmail.com
5|I have an invite valid till 27th morning 9 am .....use it to buy this awesome phone - INA6-3C42-45A8-9527
5|Very nice phone and very light. Good feeling to hold it. Worth for the price. Call 7760237797 for invites
5|Really awesome mobile.. Excellent screen, camera is superb, music is great, battery full day with usage of mixed like calls, chats, games, music, camera, WiFi, 3G internet usage, and continuous sync for mails. Look wise its very beautiful and feels very premium
5|Excellent look! Awesome speed! Handy.... Excellent UI Nice camera...specially front.
3|its a good phone but battery dies quickly without even using it much. Gota charge it two times in a day.
3|I am happy with phone but in just 45 days the charger is not working. Kindly help me to replace it.
5|its very good, design is awesoome , battery and camera are good , no heating issue , worth for money....
5|Cheap and best phone in world for everyone. For me like iPhone 6s. Thanks to one plus x team. Great work
5|It's a gift for my mom... Which is on 24 dec... I loved it...hope my mom loves it... M sure she will...
5|one of the best phones i have used in recent years ...All the best One plus Team.. Cheers,,,,
5|Excellent phone. Very well crafted, thin in dimensions. AMLED display is perfect. Battery last for day.
4|This phone is awesome... But could have been better if inbuilt memory would have been 32 or 64 GB..
4|Only backdrop from my side is it has dual sim slot but in 2nd sim slot we have slot 2nd sim or Micro SD
5|Stylish... Slim.. Nd touch is gud... Spclly a side button to alert of notification .. Nice job ONEPLUS X
5|Pure beauty never seen such kinda display before , thanks to Amazon for bringing such a beautiful device
5|I have an invite you can whats app to buy the code from me in 1000. Contact 7503293327 only whats app.
3|Pics are not as expected, specially from front camera. Is there any setting for this. Please reply.
5|phone is excellent i have indian invite to buy oneplus x anyone intrested plz contact me:7293972733
3|Hi guys.. Few basic things were missing in One Plus X. like if you turn on speaker phone and turn off during the call your voice is not audioable to the other caller. 2. Battery discharge issue is there for me ... Does any one face the same issue ??
1|Having lot of bugs 1)led indicator is not working fine 2)speaker volume is dam low and some times not audible 3)head phone is not working while speaking we need to use loud speaker only As a brand new product not expecting this many issues
5|I am now having the feeling of a proud owner of OnePlus X.... Very happy with its performance so far...
5|Best phone for this price range! Rear camera not that good! Rest everything is amazing. Buttery smooth.
5|Have 3 oneplus x invites those who want msg on my mail lalittawar.9@gmail.com msg within 3 days unless it will expire
4|It's very nice phone . Display is excellent ... Performance is good ... It's worth buying this phone be
4|Satisfied with oneplus x !! Only problem is with memory !! Company can give a separate memory card slot
5|After a long research i bought this phone, this is the only best phone i could find in its price range.
3|Better.....processer is not work properly(its take time) But price of this phone is very hight and
5|Nice phone with nice features ... And more importantly i just fallen for its design... truly awesome...
3|The product I received is having a defective charger. Is there anyway to replace only the charger?
5|really i love it... its the awsome mobile at the good price Front cam clarity looks very grt
4|mobile, charger & back cover are all awesome!!!! but hearing phone not included!!!! disappointed :(
3|quick delivery by amazon, everything is ok, but only issue is extreme heating...is there any solution?
4|camera is average but display stands off...... awesome design.,easy in hands dont drop.. it.. my ????
5|The quality is excellent for this price. I love AMOLED display which is not available in many phones
4|The phone is great but the battery delpletes really fast!!! One plus please do something about this....
5|If you appreciate design & materials, this phone is a must have ! Feels wonderful to hold,flawless UI !
1|My mobile not working properly. I am not satisfied with this mobile many problems occur in this piece.
5|Just Awesome!! Biggest Gift of this New Year!! Just Go for it blindly friends.. Amazing
1|Guys pls don't buy this phone ..its not up to expectations. Battery sucks ..not even last for 8 hrs ..
4|Nice phone... Working accordingly with respect to specifications.... One of d best phone ever I used..
5|Phone is awesome..... Display is great....... Heating issue on very high use.... Perfect for its price
5|Nice phone ,i have three invite to share if anybody wants invite ,let me contact on bngelot@gmail.com.
5|Nice and beauty if any one needs one plus x invite msg me 9491007412 on what's app only 2 invitations
4|The phone is awesome,if anybody wants to buy the invite, call me urgently at 9899181814 Thanks Mukesh
4|The phone is pretty awesome.. Now I have few invites with me which I can share. ravindraten@gmail
5|Best phone I have ised till date. Form factor, camera, battery, speed....everything is spectacular!!!
4|Great device in general, though some OS bugs remain. A sharp and crisp screen. A mediocre rear camera
5|Really an awesome experience so far. Much better than my previous phone Nexus 5 and at lesser price.
5|A very good phone at this price.. Great Phone Looks: Very good looking, slim, handy and very classy.
5|Really Good Product ... light Weight, Great Look, Good Camera, Oprating Speed, OverAll Great Phone...
4|Nice phone.. Good camera and fast procesor.. Let down is battery.. May be software can update can fix
4|Nice product and timely delivery good for all in the mobile expect dual sim and micro SD card systems
5|Guys this is an incredible phone.. believe me this phone is better than any phone available till now!
5|Very nice phone... Its appearance is very attractive.. Oxygen OS is quite tough but can be tackle....
2|the phone is great it has one major issue of overheating. mine has overheated even during normal use.
5|Display wow .....phone fits ur hand perfectly.......awesome phone to have with good specs to show....
5|Its been about 15 days and I didn't find any flaw till now. Here you get more than what u paid for.
5|Awesome phone, no heating problem even after playing high end graphics games. Must buy in this range
5|Nice and stylish But every mobile has some lags Still awesome @rs. 17000/- never step back
4|Good phone in this range,good camera quality.but need some software update to improve functionality.
5|The perfect phone under 17000. A powerful and beautifully crafted phone. Just loving the experience.
5|Product is superb.... Delivery on time.... One plus X is simply superb....iam very much satisfied...
4|Delivered as promised Product is simply great but power back is very less. Need to look into it
5|Superb mobile. Value for money. Display, battery backup, front and rear camera, aesthetics are best.
5|any body needs invite of one plus X(valid for 48 hrs). Mail me akshayrajkatyal@gmail.com for details
5|Amazing Phone . I have a Couple of Spare Invite's If Interested plz write to Abhishekce@ymail.com
5|One of the best phones in the market , amazing value for money ... The biggest flagship killer ever.
5|Invite me please.... muniraj.malik@gmail.com Very nice phone...I want to buy it at once..
5|it just an awessssssome
5|Awesome.. glass design.
5|Brilliant design ! well its the size of the iPhone 6 but the most useful thing i found in one plus x was that adding memory !! camera clarity is good ! cons i found is that volume on this this product is low otherwise the handset is awesome.
4|It's very easy to work with! And has an appropriate handling size and is an amazing phone over all!
3|No call cost display option, not satisfied with this feature. Overall good mobile with this budget.
4|Yeaterday i recieved this phone...it realy what i was expecting...look and operating is very cool..
5|Good product from one plus one It is more stylish and excellent mobile It's good working
5|Phone is awesome, but just one thing is that it is too slippery to handle, so use the silicon case.
4|Using it for over 2 months now.. Had a great experience using this phone.. Recommend for purchase..
2|design wise good,,,, adding micro SD slot another good point ...but other factors not impressive...
2|One PlusX Mic Issue with all Handsets: Mic does not work work whenever you switch from speaker mode
4|The phone is worth a buy. you can read full review here http://www.itoole.com/the-oneplus-x-review/
4|Overall a nice product.. nothing great about it but meets your expectations considering its price..
4|Worth for money. However, battery should be more powerful. It drains quickly when you use internet.
3|No doubt OnePlus X is good phone, But in same range 17k Nubia Z9 mini is also available in amazon.
5|Awesone phone quality ... No one can beat camera ... Performance ... Speed...high speed Running...
5|Excellent phone with outstanding performance....... I have 3invites anyone wants call me 9821333212
5|If any one need invite code I will give him for free plz contact on 9930924791 it is a great mobile
5|awesome phone for the price... anyone wants invites?? mail me at r.karthika2009@gmail.com
5|Very sleek mobile. Good speed. Slightly disappointed by primary camera in low light conditions.
1|This phone's speaker is not working and vedio is also hanging in this so please give me solutions
4|excellent product but it hangs while operating instagram...faced this problem on regular intervals
5|Best value for money. No other sub 2k phone can match its performance and style. I am loving it...
4|Recently I have bought this phone & am loving it....performance wise will let u know.... very soon
4|Really nice phone.. I have invite for the phone.. Feel free to mail me at sachin.sandel@yahoo.com
5|It's an awesome phone. Bang for ur buck. Invite available. whatsapp me on +91-9841377180
1|Jus a month old phone and the battery is the worst, I am very much dissatisfied with the product.
1|The phone shuts down itself. And also turns on its own no matter how much we try to switch it on.
4|Product is good and seems a perfect value for money option in Smart phones. No Headphone received
3|Not much match with my expectations as product from plus family products battery back up is worst
5|I would like to appreciate for timely and genuine Poduct delivery.Hoping the same in future also.
4|Performance wise it's excellent. But i am not satisfied with camera..Pictures are not that great.
5|Awesome product, need invites?, mail me arjunrai16@hotmail.com , mail me for details information.
5|Amazing phone...superb display....great performance. Having extra invites. Whatsapp at 9176434469
4|if any one want the invite of Oneplus x as well as oneplus 2 then contact me at ag26jan@gmail.com
5|I have 3 invites for one plus x to share Interested guys, please ping me on watsapp @ 7204422704
5|Very nice and a crafted product. Gives a premium look. Features are worth mentioning. Great phone
5|Overall Good phone. Some minor issues with Software related. Hopefully it gets resolved with OTA.
4|Any body need invite. Mail me aniketroy.cse@gmail.com
5|Really a worth phone !!! I am sure day even if single penny will nt get wasted behind dis device
2|A lot of minor issues are still unresolved ,despite calling the One Plus Helpline several times.
5|Serves purpose and built quality is very good. Fully satisfied with product and prompt delivery.
2|There are soo many minor issues are present... Think twice before u buy this phone...
5|Excellent phone in the cost with superb looks and features , extremely fast delivery. A must buy
5|Really amazing look.. Good camera.. Great Selfie Powerfully... Awesome Display Simply handle..
5|Thanks to amazon for delivering the phone with top speed. The phone is gud and it is gud to have
2|Accidentally dropped the phone, back glass shattered, no damage to screen how much will it cost?
5|Value for Money. Nice Camera both Rear and Front. No hanging issues like in Samsung smartphones.
5|Its the best.. Just buy it.. You'll deffinitely know it.. Ossum Beast.. I'm Lovin' It.. :D :) ;)
2|Poor battery performance not even lasting for a day . Audio and video functionalities missing
5|Awesome phone at this Price! Great on the looks, front cam is very good and the display is cool.
5|If any one needs invite code please contact me. Suryapratap_blr@yahoo.co.in 9980276526
5|Amazing... Amazon...!! Delivered in a day Buy madi... Super naaaiiiceee....
5|I got one invite for Oneplus x..Anyone want pls inbox me..https://m.facebook.com/mohan.gunasekar
5|I was lucky enough to order this during Christmas Week "without" invite - its was just a click & add to cart!! :) Battery: As mentioned long lasting & enough to handle the pressure throughout the day. It is non-removable 2,525mAh battery, which is about average capacity for a 5-inch 1080p smartphone! Look & feel: Awesome & amazing "Metal frame + glass/ceramic back" - looks neat & very impressive! Camera: Its uncomparable with the other phones I have used - clear, neat, precise, with a LED flash, phase-detection auto-focus... images & quality is upto the mark! Front (8MP) is an added attractive feature! Performance: Snapdragon 801 chipset; CPU: quad-core 2.3GHz Krait 400; Adreno 330 GPU; 3GB of RAM - a total perfect combo! Display: The display is excellent: it isn't among the brightest AMOLED displays we've seen, but offers very deep blacks, excellent viewing angles and chart-topping sunlight legibility!! Must buy phone with all desired features!
3|It's been a month since I'm using this phone and hence feels I can add my feedback here. Quick verdict: The phone is good indeed for few things and have small glitches which irritate me. The quick verdict is that I'm not liking it Long verdict: First some good things (I won't use awesome/ great/ superb words, people just abuse these words to describe normal commodity devices / functionality. You may translate my 'good' to your 'great' if you have such habits of using loud words): 1. Alert slider Absolute killer function for me. The one thing I like in iPhone is the slider which helps to shut up phone instantly. Android's new interruption based alerting mechanism is bit tricky to get at first but after some time seems really good. The alert slider button is icing on the cake, liking it much. If I'm going to retain this phone, this one functionality will have major role in that decision. 2. Fast & Smooth I was using Moto G2 prior and major complaint with that was sluggishness, slow response. One Plus fixed that problem for me with extended RAM. I didn't have encountered any issue at that front as of now, always seems getting very fast response with smoothness. On the other hand, I'm not a gamer but use lots of business/productivity apps which my Moto G2 hated (showed anger by giving me slow response). 3. Camera is good Again, not a click freak but use camera quite often, photos are good and better than Moto G2. 4. Build quality is good Gives a premium feeling. 5. Gestures are good Now something I don't like: Small small glitches adding up to frustration Might be OxygenOS is on fault here, it's working okay but not good and satisfactory. MotoG2 scored here due to interface maturity; haven't encountered any such glitches during a year stint with Moto. Few examples below which I can recall on top of my mind: a) Hardware buttons (below screen home/back/menu) are too small, barely visible, making them very difficult to use. Not sure what OnePlus guys thought while designing such buttons. Only a person having buttons instead of eyes can see these buttons. b) Not able to use volume up/down to adjust ring volume when a call is coming, it just silent out the ring instead of increasing/decreasing volume. Big irritant for me. b) I used Samsung Galaxy, iPhone and Moto G2 earlier and all of those worked well with my Car bluetooth. Just pair, sync and my car bluetooth will have contacts, call history etc for smooth functioning. Tried multiple times with this phone, not able to sync/download contacts / call history. It failed always, must be OxygenOS layer is culprit. Pairing is okay and can receive the call but to dial, have to pick up the phone and dial from there. Defeat the purpose. show stopper for me. c) Proximity sensor behave erratically. Turns screen on during call itself making screen contacts with your ear/skin and have unpleasant experience. Tried multiple times, sometimes works okay while fail otherwise. Could be a device specific issue though, but I'm sure If I take it to service centre and when they will check it, it will work fine there so not bothering much about it. d) Video is bad in low lights. Tried once at my friends wedding, absolute s***ty video. Tried with different modes (HD/ FULL HD) but just sluggish, terrible videos were getting recorded. btw, almost same thing was with Moto also, so not want to put blame on this phone.
5|The phone is very good there is nothing much to say about it. Pros :- 1. Good display and view angle 2. awesome rear camera but can be improved with software updates and front cam is damn good 3.good performance as of snapdragon 801 and 3gb ram 4.good battery life, phone can be used a whole day with moderate use in one charge 5.good look as back and front is fullg glass with a metal frame 6.A premium designed phone with full of high end specs 7.cheaps as competitive to other phone 8.good delivery by amazon Cons:- 1.the power button is quite clicky(don't know if my phone is button is not proper or it is by default) 2.quite slippery (thanks to Oneplus for giving a free back cover) 3.no earphones are provided(dont know why OP did this) so finally a premium phone with heafty specs @ rs17000 only. loved the phone specially the display.A well designed display and powerful phone at this price thanks to Oneplus and thanks to amazon. #NEVERSETTLE
2|OnePlus X has a very good hardware specifications.. The phone is very fast, the built is awesome but there are some severe bugs 1)The camera does not have any mode like sepia or black n white etc. 2)The flash does not work in HDR mode. 3)The pic looks awesome at night but as we click the pic it looks very dark and we cannot do anything because there is no option of contrast or color in camera settings. 4)There is no option as blur reduction, some of the pics look blurred after capturing them. 5)The phone has 3 buttons but only the middle button works, Rest two are just for show. 6)When we activate the on screen buttons and as we open the camera, those on screen buttons gets disappear and for closing the camera we have to tap first on the buttons part, then the buttons will appear again, so that we can go back. 7)I downloaded an application "snapchat". In snapchat we have the send button in the bottom and that send button is overlapping with the on screen buttons and we cannot send. This is what I get after using the phone for 9 hours. The company OnePlus used to make phones with a lots of intelligence but this one is S***. May be these things will get resolved after the update but there is no surety. Last but not the least "AMAZON" is the best.
4|Its a great phone considering the budget here are the pros and cons PROS : 1 Gorgeous Full HD AMOLED display 2 Feels extremely premium in hand 3 Top notch performance, games run buttery smooth (never found any lags or stuttering ) 4 Speaker quality is quite good 5 Stock android CONS: 1 Camera quality is not that great accourding to me, pictures lack sharpness lacks detail,colours could be a bit more saturated comes out blurry sometimes when i compared it with my friends moto x play i was dissapointed with its camera performance 2 Battery life is avearage i got around 2 and 1/2 hours of screen on time it lasted me for about 10 hours with medium use and 30 minutes of gaming . and 1 and 1/2 hour of browsing the net 3 FINGER PRINT MAGNET About the heating issue : when i played games it tends get warm but nothing uncomfortable Conclusion If you want a premium looking slim and light weight phone with amazing gaming capabilities go for Oneplus X and if you want great battery life with great camera and better service centres go with the mMoto X Play
5|Oneplus x , you know it's specs already so I won't waste time in that. After having used it for a month the best things I can collect about this phone are screen .... It's amoled so darks are perfectly dark or you can say perfectly black body (if you are a science student ) pixels. The basic difference between LCD and Amoled is this one that LCD can not display black perfectly . So white to black contrast ratio in Amoled devices is infinity while in IPS LCD is not infinity! Then comes is looks ... It has got killer looks since it's screen comes with 441 ppi , it add more crisp to its looks. The metal outline really makes it better without which the whole thing would b just avrg . But the thin design on metal outline and the perfectly put buttons in that makes it unique. The back is made up of onyx Glass which attracts lot of finger prints. They have provided the semi transparent back cover with the mobile . But with this cover the overall looks go down and on the positive side the back cover gives you better grip since the glass is somewhat slippery. Thanks to threaded design on metal outline which, if you use it without back cover helps a little in grip. Performance.... As it comes with 2.3 gigs snapdragon 801 heart, there is no lag in reaching the blood to its muscles... Joking... But yeah the processor though a little older but is no way behind any other one in this price range. The lord ram has blessed this phone with 3 gigs of ram ,yeah that's a lot of ram , joking again ! But the multitasking is buttery smooth and switching between even huge applications is not at all laggy ... It's battery... They could have added quick charge feature to it , now they haven't and that's surely not the deal breaker. Battery keeps it alive for a whole day with internet use, listening to music (that too with viper4android ) , frequent calls, and some gaming... That's enough for average daily use. And the verdict is I didn't charge my phone twice in a day since i bought it. One better is that the charger they provided is of high amperage so the charging is faster than the Samsung counterparts . Now comes oxygen OS ... It's almost core Android but with some added features from cyanogenmod . One good thing is that you will not be left behind others if the android becomes marshmallow from lollipop since the company will surely roll out the updates . Now the only bad thing i feel is that you can't have dual sim with memory card, something has to be sacrificed .. So overall the phone is obviously on better side compared to the rivals and looks too better for what it is priced . Go get it!
5|I bought this product on the first day and I have been reading the reviews so far. With all the reviews if you still have have questions on the following please read this carefully. Before everything, the product has been wonderful, I have never seen an android phone like this which is fantastic both in performance and looks. This phone is a complete value for money. Full HD display with 440ppi matters a lot boss! Let me now only talk about some of the common concerns people have raised. 1. Battery: Major concern is 2525 mah battery won't run for a day. My questions for everyone is how many hours do you use the internet browsing and games? If you use it for about 10-15 hours in a day then you might have to charge this twice a day. Otherwise, for watching FB, Whatsapp etc for 2-3 hours and some games will be enough to take the battery for one day. For a common user this battery is sufficient. But while travelling please off the mobile data to make use of maximum battery back up (any phone to that matter). 2. Camera: I am not a photographer but I wasn't that happy with some of the reviews about the camera. Camera has been really good both front and back and it does a neat job of crisp photography. May be at dark night without light you might face challenges. In fact, for the price it does more than what you expect. 3. Heating: Every phone now a days have this problem. In fact, this is not a problem at all! When you use any phone for game or heavy apps like Livetext. Just ignore this. 4. Slippery: Yes, due to back glass, the phone can slip. When a phone slips you need to believe in in luck because some premium phones also slips. When you know that the phone is slippery, you will be careful instead :) Overall, you can't get a premium phone for this price with such a great display. I don't want any of the android phones to be compared with this. If you need a phone like iPhone with android features, just go for it. You won't regret.
2|I have been using this phone for last 2 days, It looks Great but looks is not an important for me. Battery pack up is not up to the mark. there is heating problem in this phone,One of the biggest draw back in this phone. in every smart phone interface of phone is very important. according to me Interface of this phone is not upto the mark. If you are capturing pic of any views. you will be confused how to go back, it get stuck over there. even there is no such as button to go back. there should be proper button, there is no hand free, you are charging 17000 from the customer, being a manufacture, it costs you 30 to 50 rupee for hand free. you are not proving hand free to the customer. so sad. In hindi Uchi Dukaan phiki pakwaan, Jitna name sunaa thaa,, wasa bilkul bhi nahi hai. I will not recommend others to spend 17000 on this phone, yea if you want to take risk then you are most welcome. Camera & sound quality is good. according to me. i give 2 star only for sound & Camera...... this is average phone.
4|Edit - Changing the Rating to 4 STAR from 2 STAR because I am getting all day performance on the Phone.The phone runs for a day inspite of me turning on bluetooth while driving to and from office, taking calls for atleast 1 hr a day, Keeping it on 4G/LTE band throughout the day, looking up Whatsapp every once in a while, heavy browsing with video playback or games for atleast 1-2 hours every single day. But to replicate this feat you have to tweak your phone properly yourself and hence reducing a STAR for that. 1. Figure out the Performance draining applications and their sync mechanisms. Facebook, Yahoo etc. should not be allowed to access the device every alternate second. Also many of the games like Traffic racer, Subway surfer wants to access the net, keep the phone awake for no reason even when you are not running them. Leverage the App permissions to deny these rougue applications. 2. Install a clean light weight launcher like Nova launcher. I found it to be perfect for the resource hungry Oxygen launcher that comes default. 3. Do not install too much Security software like Lookout, CM Cleaner etc. These seem to adversely impact the phone. 4. Install a light weight power management software like Power cleaner. This seems to be work best amongst the ones I tried like Juice defender, Go Power, CM Cleaner etc. MAIN REVIEW One Plus X could have been the ultimate blockbuster for the powerful midranger that has all the features without going overboard on price or features. I was waiting for ages to get this phone. Finally got a invite from Oneplus to my mail few days back and did not waste even a minute after getting the same. Delivery by Amazon was superfast as usual and got the phone in my hands the very next day. Have had the phone for a fully 2 days following is my review. Background for buying One plus X I had a Redmi Note 4G from Xiaomi and I was on the lookout for something that is lighter with reasonably big screen. The Redmi note also was long in the tooth in terms of hardware and stuttering was common. I am not much of a gamer but still the Redmi was not able to handle even the basic games like Traffic racer or Subway Surfer stuff without stuttering. Also the weight of the phone was getting too uncomfortable for me. I also wanted to be sure that there was sufficient storage to use my collection of movies and media recordings. The Moto G 1st gen used by my wife while being an excellent phone was frequently beset by storage issues. Apart from the weight and stuttering, the Xiaomi was actually great in terms of intuitive user interface, lightweight launcher and battery life. There were the occasional niggles in terms of battery drain but updates were frequent and Xiaomi team were quickly plugging all possible gaps. With the MIUI 7.0 the phone became much more fluidic in terms of performance and things were pretty much great but for the weight issue. My requirement if at all was for a 15-16K type of lightweight mid ranger with reasonably good hardware and specifications. All the other phones either had basic hardware or was way too costly for the price. Mi3 or 4 were logical choices being a Xiaomi product, but I ruled them out due to the storage limitations. I was smitten by the great hype from One plus and its products especially the One Plus One which I had a chance to experience was very good. The hardware was excellent and the Cyanogen software complemented it beautifully. But I was not comfortable with the phones that were on the heavier side and reminded me on my Redmi note. Hence I jumped the gun when I got an invite for One Plus X. The Positives 1. Sized perfectly at 5 inch ...neither too small or big for the hands. 2. Great AMOLED screen with near perfect blacks and contrast. 3. Night reading is excellent. No strain to the eyes. 4. Hardware and RAM on par with One Plus One with lower price tag. Hence butter smooth experience 5. Micro SD support till 128GB or a Dual SIM. Just what I needed. The Negatives 1. Oxygen OS is a work in progress and the rough edges shows. The phone refused to connect to WI-FI network even when I first switched it on. I was flabbergasted and even tried a hard reset. After going through One plus Forums I came to know that this is a Oxygen OS bug and all you have to do is ignore the WIFI connection step the very time you switch on the phone. Voila once the setup is complete, the phone will be able to finally connect to WI FI networks...Take that for the first impression!!! 2. The Battery performance is very unimpressive and drains fast. Agreed that AMOLED screen is more power intensive, but what I did not like is the almost 10 point drop in battery even on standby. The One plus Engineers need to take a serious look at this. 3. Oxygen OS was the largest culprit in terms of power consumers. The situation was so exasperating that I had to install Hola launcher and set it as default instead of the bumbling Oxygen launcher. 4. Data Management is very poor. No options to optimize Data Management unless the individual application supported it. The Xiaomi on the other hand had data optimization settings. Also I can restrict data usage at WIFI/Mobile network level for each application. 5. Customization is very bare basic. Nothing really from stock android. While this should have been good for performance, the Oxygen OS was not up to the mark either as noted above and hence it was disappointing. The application settings are stock android and lacks the level of fine grained control that MI UI provided. 6. Intuitive UI and Usage experience - Not intuitive at all. Even Simple things like blocking a specific call or message automatically is not present. This was a thing I used on my Xiaomi every day. Even though the Xiaomi also was more or less stock Android, the Xiaomi engineers had cleverly added tweaks to the stock Android interface to enhance the User experience a great deal. Basic applications like Data usage tracking, Application Security, Task killer, Security checking were part of the MI UI. I did not need to install N number of other applications to get these basic features. So overall the negatives outweigh the positives. When MI 5 is released with the more stable Qualcomm 820 chips and possibly extendable storage, I know I will be amongst the first in Queue for sure....Hope One plus addresses this serious deficiency lest they lose customers.
5|Writing review for the 1st time. You won't be disappointed by the phone if u go by the looks. Its the best looking phone i have ever seen in this price bracket. Using it since couple of days now. All looks great except for few things. The 1st and foremost is with the battery life the phone drains battery fast. I did some research and found that it is the software issue and could be resolved in next software update. The reason being oxygen os keeps many Google services awake in the background causing battery drain. Did some tweaks and looks like there is lil bit of improvement for now. Should get resolved by marshmallow update. Being a glass on front & back it becomes risky affair to handle this device. The back is so slippery that if u keep it on another flat surface it will slide down. The rubberized cover is provided that's the great news. However it kills the main attraction of the device i. e its looks and design. Though its upto to the user to use it or not. Though it has decent processor and ram oxygen os is not optimized properly i could see some lags here and there no big issues might fix it in next update. Most of the issues are software related and can be taken care of so overall am satisfied with the device for the price it come with. It feels very premium when you hold it in your hand. The device gets lil warm at the back sometimes but that is because of the glass. The display is amazing and shows accurate colors and font. I have moto g2 and display is far much better than on g2. HD videos looks crisp and very clear. The output from the speaker is loud enough to hear. Gesture controls are good options. The camera is at its par i am able to get some good shots from this sensor. The focus is very quick. Though it doesn't have 4k video support i don't think that's an important deal. I am happy with 1080p... Should you buy or not? Well it is a good deal if you could handle few issues which should get sorted with the updates. I opted opx over moto x play and i don't regret. Most of us carry external power bank so that should take care of the battery issue...
5|I m writing this review after using this phone for around 15 days. I have used note 3, i phone, microsoft lumia in the past so could easily compare the functioning. The best part of this phone is its interface. It is smooth, swift & silky. It never lags through out the day & it is a wonderful experience to navigate across the screen. It is perfectly suited to android system & gives you a great experience. The camera is amazing. Even the front camera is good. I am not a big selfie addict so this phone does the basic work for me. The audio quality is also wonderful. The battery doesnot heat up much. It is li-poly battery as opposed to the regular li-ion battery found otherwise, which heats up quickly. The other day, I spoke to my friend for almost an hour, but i didnt notice any heating, as was the case with note 3. Functionality wise this phone is a perfect buy in that price range. You get 3gb ram, 16 gb memory, li-poly battery, glass finish ..so it is absolute value for money. The only problem is with the product. It has a glass matted finish on the back side as well. So it will have finger print marks after minimal usage. You have to keep on wiping it to keep it looking awesome. otherwise you have visible fingerprint marks on both sides of phone. The phone doesnot come with any earphones. You will have to buy them separately. Also the phone comes with a back case which is very very cheap & doesnot go well with the overall look of the phone. All the extra accessories you will have to buy separately. But still I am happy with my One plus X.
5|This is my first phone from OnePlus brand and i've heard both their previous phones are fantastic given their price. OnePlus one and two lived up to its expectations and i believe that's probably why it got so famous in a very short span of time and the reason behind so much hype about this phone.And I must say, it haven't disappointed me so far! So let's begin. 1. DESIGN AND BUILD QUALITY: Of course the phone looks as advertised and also feels the same way. i purchased the onyx version. the front AMOLED screen is protected by corning gorilla glass 3 while the back is made of onyx black glass. hence both the sides are covered with glass, the kind you see in xperia phones. A thin strip of solid aluminium runs around the sides because of which the phone feels sturdy. unlike iphone, OnePlus has given a grayish tinge to the aluminium along the sides. some say its a hybrid of xperia and iphone but the design is completely unique and i thought of it a rather different piece of craftsmanship. phone feels really good and i must admit when i got my hands on it the first time, i felt i haven't touched something premium like this in years. the back glass attracts fingerprints a lot so you have to constantly keep wiping or cleaning it with soft cloth if you don't have a case. a silicon back cover comes with the phone out of the box so that's no problem. overall i liked the way it looked, its compactness and i think it truly deserves praise. 2. DISPLAY: One of the primary reasons OPX was recognized is due the screen. unlike its predecessors that boasts 5.5 inch, OnePlus trimed this down to 5 inch surprisingly. in fact one of the reasons i bought this phone was because it offered a perfect 5 inch display i feel is ideal for a phone. OPX has a pixel density of 441ppi. that paired with AMOLED display produces deep blacks and punchy colors ranking it one of the best smartphones around the price range in terms of display.It blows a whole moto range out of the water and any other brand in this price range! 3.CAMERA: In most of the aspects Its 13mp rear shooter does well in daylight or bright lit places.In most aspects the OPX camera does really well in daylight or bright lit places, I would say better than moto g3 and mi4/4i but not as good as oneplus one/two.Front packs a huge 8mp shooter people who love taking selfies will find this phone a delight. selfies are sharp, detailed and are rather bright and over-saturated than being natural. it made my friend look like a foreigner, he being dusky lol. overall good rear and front camera enough to satisfy majority of people. 4.GAMING AND CASUAL USAGE PERFORMANCE: I won't go much deep in hardware as it is all given on specsheet.But Snapdragon 801chip set coupled with 3gigs of ram should run even high end games with any choppiness. in case of OPX this IS NOT TRUE. games lag. i mean lag while even playing subway surfers. frame drops in asphalt 8, stuttering at times while playing riptide gp2.BUT IT IS ALL DOWN TO THE OXYGEN OS, and they are working on this in their next OTA update(there have been two OTAs so far in span of 2 weeks so quite sure GAMING wont be a problem for long ) And I've been following oneplus x forum and people who have flashed custom recovery and kernel (yeah already), have absolutely no issues with gaming at all even on graphic hungry game..so currently its all down to OS and will be fixed.As far as casual usage goes, its great. No lag at all while multitasking! 5. BATTERY: No problems with battery. despite 2500mah battery, it lasts easily for a day even after heavy usage. the snapdragon 801 chip set with oxygen os manages to save juice even after prolonged browsing and gaming. a future marshmallow update can improve the battery life even further! So thats it,as you've read through, i have mentioned both the pros and cons of OPX and some can be fixed by forthcoming OTA updates with ease. oxygen os is near to stock android due to which UI is very smooth and has no hanging issues at all.I hope i've helped you by trying my best to dig out its true colors. As far as I'm concerned I'M LOVIN' IT :)!
5|This Oneplus exceeds all expectations! Far from doubt. The Product was shipped in a slightly flimsy packaging, bagged by amazon. But past that, the light at the end of the tunnel was personification of illumination. 1. Elegant white box with the OnePlus logo on the top corner. 2. Past which, the phone is revealed with its tag line on the screen film ("Never Settle"). Never ever. 3. The Red of the Packaging had held me like at the end of an Aldus Huxley. Well thought colour scheme and tastfully packed box. 4. As you move through the layers you will come across the following. A. Plastic Cover casing for the device. B. PIN engager to push open the slot for the two sim cards C. Type C USB to Micro USB cable, AC connector adapter D. User Manuals in the artistic red box. 5. PLEASE NOTE: EARPHONES NOT INCLUDED 6. Phone comes precarged with 85% battery User Experience The body of the phone is sleek, the metallic finish at the borders gives the phone an aesthetic look. One might compare the texture and feel to that of the i phone. Since the phone comes with 85% you can go ahead and turn it on right away. Initialization takes not more than 15 Mins. The battery life of the phone is decent, nothing special. Camera quality exceeded my expectations. Touch and frames transitions are smooth as silk. The Android Oxygen OS does not take any time getting used to, Easy as pie. AS CUSTOMIZEABLE AS LEGO! FOR THE LOW COST OF 16999 I WOULD RECOMEND THIS FLAGSHIP ONEPLUS DEVICE TO ALL OUT THERE LOOKING FOR A HIGH PERFORMANCE, GRACEFUL AND DISTINGUISHED HAND HELD!
3|i have OnePlusX and in my family we have nokia lumia 720 and 830 ..Quality of Carl Zeiss lens camera of both lumia mobiles is much better than OnePlusX, specially indoors Lumia mobiles are exceptionally good..and I felt touch sensor also is better and buttery smooth in Lumia mobiles than in OnePlusX. Both lumia mobiles have better display having ClearBlack display. But, only thing which OnePlusX has is Android and that is more user friendly, more features than Lumia mobile and my both Lumia mobiles have faced software issues and camera stopped working on part of Hardware issue, which i have already given for service two times and service centre personnel told that lot of customers are facing same issue in lumia mobiles. Similar software and hardware ussues i had faced with samsung and sony mobiles. So, Less reliability of Brands like Samsung/Sony/Nokia forced me to try OnePlusX. Also, i wanted a mobile which is not more than 5 inch, chances of sippage incrasese with increase in size of mobile, tohugh 4.7 inch mobiles are optimum., 5 inch was the only size available next to 4.7 inch. Now, no company is making 4.7 inch mobiles. And Time only will tell about the stability of software and hardware of OnePlusX. Ppl can read reviews of the mobile on Amazon.in, ppl have experinced lots of issues like heating and battery draining quickly.but, i have not faced any issue so far in my One plus X. smile emoticon and i feel that without the cover on this OnePlusX, you will not be able to hold it safely, it is too much slippery because of its Mirror like back panel..you have to use the Rubber cover given with the mobile which destroys the beauty of mobile mirror like back panel. I think OnePlusX is overpriced for the hardware used in mobile. Mi4 gives Sony camera/samsung camera lens which is much better than OnPlusX camera.
4|Excellent designed its really impressive to hold the device which looks different out of crowd. I'll not discussed about config. I was bit confuse by reading some negative comment towards OPx but i did not regret to buy this. Following are the qualities that I've found. 1. Excellent design(out of the crowd) 2. Superb Screen Quality(As its Amoled LCD) 3. Similar to stock android(I didn't like oxygen os/stock android much as miui7 is excellent in terms of customized rom) 3. Easy to keep notification sound like priority or silent mode. 4. 3gigs of ram make device smooth running of apps 5. 5" screen perfect to one hand hold with slim size weight only 135grams. 6. Selfie camera(front facing) is good 7. Customization is excellent (you'll soon become habitual of that thing) A phone with bugs too. 1. Nano sim (i had difficulty to use my 128k sim of bsnl) 2. Battery life is poor (bad step taken by opx) 3. 13 pixel camera which work only good when there is good lighting i've found the flash flight is quite small in size. 4. Memory card issues(You all apps can access the data from memory card like Music or mx player but you can't move apps to sd card) 5. Glass both side which looks impressive but left fingerprint which required to clean frequently 6. Oxygen os (its not great at all though its provide great customization - you'll find no gallery i don't know why this idiot step taken over by opX) 7. little heating issues - its common for todays high end devices 8. type c charge - hope to be good in future not now Overall its great device to hold but obvious its still not the best but definitely one plus have tried something really good to consider.
4|Nexus 5 to Oneplus X I have been using Nexus 5 for close to three years, It is one the very best phone available in the market considering its performance, build quality, top notch service from google, etc...This phone never let me down.. Either Camera or weight or call quality or video quality or performance... the only issue is battery, battery capacity is not sufficient, Need to Charge morning and evening..I'm moderate user. Before Nexus 5 I used Samsung Galaxy II a Poor performance phone, galaxy II motherboard died during the first patch update, what a horrible phone from Samsung, About Oneplus X, Writing this review after 10 days of usage. Screen : Awesome screen quality. AMOLED simply rocks, you will enjoy the watching videos or photos with this phone. (10/10) Look : Phone look very stylish without cast. Sleek, light weight, handy (10/10) Performance: I don’t see any performance lag. If you look for hardcore performance you should go for single SIM mobiles. It perform its best considering dual sim customization. (9/10) Heating: Don’t find any major heating issues, but compare to Nexus 5, I feel mild heating while watching videos. (8/10) Battery: Considering AMOLED, oneplus has reduced batter capacity for this phone. AMOLED consume less power compare to IPS LCD, Daily charge is required moderate usage. (8/10) OS: Seems oneplus was releasing this phone in a hurry and didn’t get enough time to do proper OS testing. Had software installation issues during the 1st usage, called help desk, they cleared the catch and fixed the issue. Wifi on but no internet, but this phone shows internet available over wifi. I request oneplus to release some patch to fix all OS issues asap. This is not a big deal as the problem can be fixed remotely by oneplus. Nexus 5 is always a class apart in OS. (6/10) Overall it’s 100% value for money phone.
4|Worth the money! A beautiful looking phone with really good specification. I was looking for a 5 inch phone wth full HD display, which is really hard to come these days, in the given price bracket. I shortlisted Moto G, Mi4 and One plus X. As moto g didnt have full HD, and Mi4 didnt look and feel good enough, i decided on One plus X. A few short comings of the phone i found after a couple of days of use: 1. Battery backup is not good as expected, with low screen on time. Hopefully this would be fixed in the 6.0 update. 2. Screen has over saturated colors. Surprisingly, this was never mentioned in any reviews. Its not a big downside. As i am coming from an IPS display phone, over saturation is not agreeing with my eyes. 3. Speaker sound is just average. 3.5mm output is excellent though. 4. Strictly average camera with limited options. Even basic option like change storage to sd card is absent. That being said, above points are somethings that i could overlook and adjust. What i liked about the phone: 1. Excellent looks, with plain shiny black design. Attracts fingerprint and dust though. 2. The phone gives really good standby time. 3. Butter smooth UI. No glitches or hangs anywhere. 4. A lot of customization to the seemingly stock android UI. 5. No bloatware, just the basic google stuff. 6. Good quality usb cable and charger, and pretty looking too. 7. Sturdy build. Overall quality is good, with One plus giving you all the space for you to customize as per your need. Loving the phone. Hope you will like it too. For the price you are paying, you are a getting a premium build product. PS: if you are not much of a person who wants looks and premium build, but just need pure functionality, Mi4 would be a better option in the same price range. As for me, i love the premium feel and looks for my tech (software shortcomings i can live without, or just install 3rd party apps to cover it). I don't really care about the cores and benchmarks of the phone, as in the real world usage, it doesnt really matter. For the multi cores to work efficiently, developers of apps have implement it accordingly (RAM is important though,and the difference evident from my previous Moto G 1st gen). So far, for the apps i have installed, the phone is doing wonders. Hope you found the review useful :)
4|I've just spent few hours with this phone, so here's are my first impressions - Display: AMOLED displays tend to show saturation colors, but the color reproduction is good and display is crisp. However I'm a little disappointed by he slight bluish tinge (may be my mind compares it with my iPad's display). I wish it would have been a warmer side and I couldn't find the color temperature slider settings. But that's just my opinion and it should not hinder anyone not to go for this phone. The display is great. Audio: I would thrash the reviews that I read saying the speaker distorts or is feeble or not loud. IMO the sound is audible enough and I frankly don't care about mono or stereo. Audio from headphone jack is fantastic..I'm an audiophile myself. I'm sorry but I haven't inserted any SIM card yet to comment on call quality. Camera: I had less expectations but I must admit I was impressed given the price point of this phone, the camera is great. I installed Camera MX and it really delivers excellent results. You won't be disappointed. Selfies...hmmm..I'm not a selfie person, but I thought the front camera to be good. Other observations and conclusions: I was a bit frightened when the device said it was taking too long to connect to my Wifi...but then on the forums I read that you need to skip that step and it would connect. Well thankfully that happened. Hopefully OnePlus fixes this bug. I found the device to be mildly hot, which is easy to ignore (heats very normally). I'm again sorry that I haven't inserted any SD card so I can't confirm the card issues that many users are reporting. I used software data cable app to copy media on the device and it works like a charm. About the battery, I won't expect it to be rock solid but I think it would deliver a decent battery backup. There's a battery saver setting available too so I believe it will prolong battery life. So all in all, my first impressions are that this is a very good phone in this price range. I was willing to go for Lenovo Vibe P1, but the right display size, AMOLED display, weight and the excellent build and looks of this phone made me sway towards OnePlus. I would recommend you to go for it. I'll try to edit and extend my review after I spend some days with the OPX!
3|Everything is super in this phone . No lack in system performance & front 8mp works brilliant. Display is amazing 441ppi and dark mode is super. It as battery save mode when it is active for 5% battery. it gives 43mins battery backup onscreen. After playing games on this phone if feel amsome. I feel the heat of the game when i am playing. it's feels like holding a solid water on your hand and playing games on it. When it gets little ware due to glass material on both sides it feels amazing good . It my get warm after playing games around 35 degrees not more than that . it feels like holding a warm tea or coffee glass on your hands in the afternoons. Multitasking is like a butter moving on your hands on lack. Moreover you will get 1.5gb of ram free for gaming only after opening all app on the phone it is out of the world. No doubt it will kill all phones no this price tag. It has fast charging. rear camera is poor in option and picture quality it as fastest auto focus and amazing speed in capturing of photos. camera photos don't look like a 13mp camera it very poor performance . Oneplus need to update rear camera still more. I think the will give a soon one more update on camera. due camera performance phone comes down . phone is good but camera is very poor after updating also . y oneplus made such big mistake
5|I have been using the OpX for a couple of days now and I am glad I waited for a couple of months despite having an invite for the OnePlus 2 a long time back. This is an incredible phone and total bang for the buck for it's class. If you are looking for the best and highest end specs in hardware and features, this one is not for you. However the phone is total value for money for what it offers. Here is my review: In the box - A premium feel smaller size box compared to the OnePlus1 and 2. Package contains the phone, a soft phone cover and the charger apart from manuals and the Sim tray ejector pin. Looks - A total stunner. A sleek slim glass body coupled with metal rounded edges gives it a premium look and feel. Extremely light weight and the smaller size makes it very easy to handle. Features - The Oxygen OS gives it a pretty standard android feel. Not many customization options but pretty manageable with whatever is available. Future releases of the OS could correct this. Hardware - The Snapdragon 801 and 3GB RAM ensure that there is no lag whatsoever even while running multiple applications. Did not observe any heating issues except when the phone is getting updated - the first update to Oxygen 2.1.2 happens right after you setup the phone and connect to the Internet. Ease of use/Setup - Pretty simple to insert the Sim card(s) and/or SD card. Initial setup is a breeze though the setup might get stuck while connecting to WiFi. If this happens, just skip this step and connect to WiFi once the entire setup is done. Camera - Good photo and video clarity as is the trademark with OnePlus devices. The FM radio is an added plus which was absent in earlier OnePlus devices. Overall this is a value for money phone with looks given importance while not compromising too much on performance. For today's world of phone requirements, this phone more than lives up to its mark. All in all a good buy!
1|Within 48 hours of delivery product prices were slashed for INR 2000. Big blow to a common man's pocket. Left me sad, disappointed, wish could have utilized that money. Product is best priced and value after this discount. :-(
4|Using this phone since 3 days.. It's handy and beautiful. Cons 1. There is no auto brightness feature 2. Brightness suddenly increases and fluctuates sometimes 3. Flash could not be turned while taking pics
5|I have been using this phone from last 1 Month and it has good features. Working wise its good.
4|Excellent phone. Some minor issues while answering the phone. But a true value for money phone.
1|Not even satisfCtory. Slow processing. Hang problem. Call drops . Will soo go for samsung
3|everything looks fine except the camera..its hardly 1 megapix though company claims it as 13mps
3|Looks were perfect but have flaws in OS. It will start lagging hanging after few months of use.
4|Unable to view pics via some photo gallery.. Battery backup very good. Good performance mobile.
5|It's a beautiful phone. Very slim and sleeky design by ONEPLUS and also coming with a low Price
5|Awesome phone... AMOLED display is awesome... Thanks for one plus team for launching this phone
5|Excellent, Affordable, Best for its Price. Nice Battery, Camera. #First Andriod Phone
5|Good Phone at Reasonable Price :) Good looks and very handy....Totally Satisfied !!!
4|Very good looking phone and works very well. And Amazon courier service is fabulous.
5|too good..! build quality is good. battery backup is good. no heating problem..
2|Was getting too hot. Battery just didn't meet expectations. It has the best looks that's all.
2|Many of the features are not availabe as expected,but a decent phone. Good to handle & stylish
1|Not worth for value paid. Didn't fullfil the expectations. Many functions are not as required.
5|Fast delivery by amazon and phone looks good. And the sound quality is very low in the mobile.
3|nice phone but camera is not clear its really upset.. and battry backup also not gud
5|Excellent phone with very good processing speed and camera quality. Battery life is a concern.
5|If Anyone Needs Invites , Whatsapp/Message Me On +91-9198479996 I Have 2 Fresh Invites :)
5|Very nice phone, excellent display...very fast and after one update its battery life improved.
4|Best mobile but not support Gujarati language, no add/del. SD card,and no flash in night image
5|Giving away the invite for 150 rupees. Hurry 6 hours left to claim. Whatsapp me at 9966896965
5|OP2 is very good smart phone with high end feature. worth to buy this product. look also nice.
5|need invite mail me at nitinkaushik4444@gmail.com cant we say it a #superphone??? in love
5|Great phone. Need invite for one plus 2, pls mail me zuhaibkhan22@gmail.comIN59-098B-9B75-7E77
5|Amazing phone. Stylish looks, extraordinary camera and outstanding specs for a 17k price. Yes, there is an issue with memory card that you cannot move apps to memory card, but I am expecting an OTA update soon to fix it.
4|Did not noticed that there is no ear phone available with the phone, rest everything is good.
1|I don't like hang, this phone is hang with 3GB RAM i can't understand this so never buy this.
5|Amazing mobile.... Must for the fast young generation. Champagne color is too good to resist.
2|front and back are made up of glass which is quite risky while carrying ur phone is any place
4|Awesome phone so far. The looks and the features are fantastic for this price tag. Go for it.
5|I need an invite! Can someone help me out with it..my email id is tovaishaligupta@gmail.com
5|The best class design phone with numerous features is the best choice mid range phone ever...
3|Buggy software.. Switches on data network by itself.. Could not recognise SD card initially..
5|real flagship killer and more when customised and rooted. no competition in any price range.
5|IN28-20A7-3DD4-22F9 Use the invite within 3days. Phone is worth buying. Go for it.
4|Amazing phone.. using it from last one month. Anyone need invite..contact on 07837135151
5|Can anybody has problems with earphones as they are not properly fitting in the earphone plug
5|Excellent phone with good features. It is designed with great care. Worthy and beauty handset
5|Best product at this range. Works absolutely fine as of now and looks class at the same time.
5|I have one invite to give away. If anyone interested, contact me at vivekshegaonkar@gmail.com
5|Hi invites available with me for oneplus x..if interested contact casaurabhjain27@gmail.com.
5|OnePlus have outdone Themselves with the one plus X. Refreshing to use a phone single handed.
4|the product is good but the only problem is the battery. hope one plus team solve the issues.
5|Hi, I need invite could anybody ping me on Hamir.brahmakshatriya@gmail.com. Thanks
5|Anybody wants invite ??? Call me itz going to cost u.9980451574..whatsapp just pay me 500rs
5|Awesomeness in 17k..!
5|Awesomeness redefined
5|Cool mobile.. Initially it used to hang, but after an update from oneplus.. I m satisfied ..
3|Camera is very average. Phone is light and fits into your pocket easily. Comes with a case.
3|Not much good. One plus one is better than this. No call details displayed after every call.
5|This is a best budget friendly smartphone in the world (as far as i know, being a tech geek)
5|Fabulous phone generally. Could do with little more optimization for games and battry life.
5|My oneplus x phone is stolen. Could anyone told me how to block it or trace with imei no. ??
3|The main problem is it's over heating.It heat badly when you play games or some application.
4|Need an invite. Contact me at rahalraj1 on gmail. Invite valid for 3 days. I have 5 invites.
5|Great phone for the price. Would recommend it to anyone looking for something in this range.
4|I found its good mobile only issue is with battery mobile gets heated up while playing games
5|This phone is one of the best phones in my life if anyone wants to buy it or get it tell me.
5|I want invite please give me one ivite... parthlove2627@yahoo.com 7878287974
4|I need an invite for one plus x Plz anyone share with me... nirmalrachel@gmail.com
5|very happy this phone i have oneplus , oneplus 2 & now i have oneplus x. minor hitting issue
5|Looking for a invite.....pls send it to rajboss0065@gmail.com if any body have it.....thanks
2|One plus one is far better than one plus x and one plus two. thiis is not a good phone. may be price is 16999/-.but i noticed some issued while using it for 3 days. i ordered through invite. i got it in one day delivery. but the ONE PLUS X IS NOT up to mark level. ONE PLUS ONE IS BETTER . PROS :: 1. having dual slim slot 2.stylish look (but glossy look back side ) 3.good performance.4.internal 16 GB u get 10 gb space. CONS : 1.battery back up is bad ( 2525mah) 2. back side is very clear it easily attaracts finger prints, but bumper case is there for cover. 3.MAIN MAJOR DRAW BACK IS VOLUME. SPEAKER VOLUME IS LESS THAN ONE PLUS ONE.SINGLE SPEAKER.. 4.AMOLED, BUT not looks like. 5. SECOND MAJOR DRAWBACK IS HEATING ISSUE. WITHOUT PLAYING GAMES.IT GETS HEATING IN NORMAL STAGE AND CHARGING STAGE. my suggestion is PLEASE DONT GO FOR ONE PLUS X. IF STILL WANTS, BETTER TO GO FOR ONE PLUS ONE. FAR BETTER .
5|The best phone for the price....great build quality,superb design...robust performance.....
3|Some of the important feautures are not there like We can't use 2nd SIM & SD card at a time
4|Pros: 1. Look 2. Spec 3.Price Cons 1. Heating while charging
5|Product seems to be really good. But the camera is not satisfactory. But worth for Rs. 17k.
4|Good configuration and UI.. the only problem is the battery, need to charge towards evening
5|Please send me the invite code on my id ashishjustsmiling@gmail.com. i want to purchade it.
3|Laggy OS....overall built is fine but OS has disappointed me...didn't expected from onePlus
4|Very happy with the phone. They can do better with the phone's dual sim management feature.
4|It heats up once in a while. And it's battery life is not great. But over all a good phone.
4|Look-5/5, Spec-5/5, Screen-5/5. Performance -4/5, have some software problem
5|Have few invites (valid for 5 days) mail me on ntrphanikumar@gmail.com if you need one
5|amazing mobile,heavy support graphic games it vl wnt heat handset nd net coverage also nice
5|look is too good...operating is also very nice handy mobile..i'm satisfy vth this mobile...
4|Nice phone. Any needs an invite, call me on 9052730123. Available only for 2days.
4|Amazing Phone . Please contact akshay.huria@gmail.com for invite, expires today.
5|I want to be a purchase one plus x please send invite me 9718560365 narender26mar@gmail.com
5|ANYONE WANT THE INVITE msg or WhatsApp me @ 9035139028 invite expires in 2 days.
5|Firstly, prompt service by Amazon and kudos to that. Although, ordered it on a Saturday, expecting it to come by Monday, I received it on Sunday itself. Coming to the phone, it's an ideal 5 inch device. Fits perfectly in the hand. What makes it better is that it is 6.9mm thick, weighs just 138gm and is surrounded by amazing aesthetics in terms of the glass and metal finish. The device is compact. The AMOLED - 441ppi display is just eye candy. Photos are of high quality in good lighting conditions (tends to get a little grainy in low-light). Devoid of any lag so far (3GB RAM is big plus). The speakers exist only on the left side of the bottom of the device, the other side is just a design add-on for proportionality, I'm assuming. Overall, it feels like a premium device and go for it if you're interested in a 5-inch device that meets all your daily needs with a topping of some pizzazz. Cheers. ;)
4|Rarely hangs...all in all its a good phone. But for it's price it couldn't get any better!
5|pls lend me an invite at rohan2net@yahoo.com..as i am not able to buy this device today :)
4|Nice one in 16to25k range no compromise high features nice camera and internally functions
5|Super, It's too fast, good cameras and super performance in this price.Thanks to one plus.
5|Awesome Phone. The software needs a lot of improvement though, specially the camera modes.
2|phone hangs alot of times and also the battery backup is not good.( it lasts hardly 10hrs)
3|Lil problems in mobile touch and some times it vibrate for no reason Camera is superb
3|Just an average Device, Battery and Camera are not up to the mark , OS needs a push up too
5|Ultimate design and performance. Thanks to Amazon reviewer you provided me the invite .
5|I have 2 invites for OPX Anyone want invites for one plus x Ping me at yuvsh93@gmail.com.
5|INE4-8F51-0FDB-442D INE4-A2FB-3D27-0CD2 2 invites for Opx...njoy guyz wth ur opx
3|No doubt, this is one of the best made product in this price range. Onyx material looks really premium, bt when you start using it you can see the fingerprints all over the phone body. Within 10mins of use, premium look fade off. And people buy it for its design, if you use any case cover then the premium look of the phone won't b visible.. Battery: 2570mah is not enough for amoled display.. Battery drains within 6-7hrs of continues use. Camera: Front camera is gr8, captures more light and you can take awesome selfies with beauty mode. But rare camera, below average. Though its 13mp, may b sensors used is not that gr8.. This is one of the reason I returned the product. UI: Too much customizable options and gr8 to use. I loved Oxigen UI Performance of the phone have been discussed in many of the reviews. Its good phone with some limitations. Make your decision before you go for it.
5|Yesterday only I got the phone... It's awesome mobile.. Look wise I phone... I have a small doubts internal memory it's showing 11GB only... Then they didn't provide the head sets... Please clarify...
3|Great phone , memory too low as per handset configuration, should be atleast 32gb inbuild
5|Nice phone Working well but it would be better if its battery gives much more backup
4|Amazing phone. Very light and features are good. Easy to handle and very compatible phone
5|Good product by specifications and feature. Only Con: Camera not upto the mark
3|Everything is awesome except heating issue while playing game. It heats faster than MotoG
5|IN90 - 41C7 - DEE0 - 5A92, IN3B - 781C - 4D00 - 48F8, INED - ED2A - 69D9 - 25B0
5|A free invite to anyone who wants it IN36-D84B-4577-46E2 Claim it within 15 hrs
5|Nice phone with decent looks but amazing features. A must buy if you get the opportunity.
5|Awesome phone. Great value for money. The only low is camera and lack of dual tone flash.
5|Size like a 4.8 inch phone u tell 5 inchs battary not good use internet 4 to 5 hours only
4|Good phone but poor OS... I have an invite if anyone needs contact me mailvasie@gmail.com
4|superb specification under 17k . much more likely if the price falls little bit more down
5|INVITE Any one want invite pls call me 8301874010. This invite is applicable today
5|If any one need one plus x invite .. plz Watsapp me 9886661113.. available only for 48hrs
3|2 invites available 1d> left, mail me for invites alenboben7@gmail.com proof attached
5|Awesome phone, for invites please call one plus 2 and one plus x invites, call 7760237797
4|Nice, slim and with the perfect display size. Screen brightness and clarity is very nice.
5|I have one plus 2 intive any one interest mail me on Mukeshpadhy@gmail.com it's not free
4|Awesome phone I have an invite selling it for 500 those who need can call me @ 9884476347
4|Nice packing,beautiful & stud charger strong built but miss USB cabel and headphones.....
5|Superb Phone ! It's good to own all one plus phones! One plus One,, OP2 and One Plus X
5|No comparison in this range... OnePlus nailed it this time.. It looks like 40-50k phone..
5|Excellent phone with excellent build quality and features. We can trust 100% than iPhone.
5|IND4-7F8C-8547-F479 Jisko bhi one plus x Lena ho ...woo ye code use karle. It's true. Ohk
5|Value for money.....
4|Awesome mobile.... Great performance... No lag issues.... Great for selfies...
4|It's a nice phone I feel battery should have been more better otherwise it's love phone.
5|Performance more than expected Negligible value for the stuff Thank you Amazon
3|With in a range of Rs.17000/- it is good phone. How ever there is scope for improvement.
5|Best phone under RS 16999 With great performance ang good display.A must buy phone.
5|Paisa Vasul. I am really impressed with this phone and appreciate the service of Amazon.
5|Amazing phone . I have invite code if any buddy wants Send me mail patilabhi99@gmail.com
3|I have invite of 1+ x .If you want call9969848772 Now i share it codeINF8-1221-6B33-0BD8
4|A great phone..,Anyone wants it contact me for invite "shahrohit295@gmail.com"
4|heating issues and only one speaker is there but bottom it shows as having two speakers
3|Does this mobile has a good flash ? Also help me with a invite at ved_galaxy@yahoo.co.in
5|now a days under 17000/- dual sim and hd dispay and also looking smart smart pick......
5|I have Two On 07/11/2015 Validity 3 days One plus X invite Contact: haneeshpld@gmail.com
5|Can't believe the kind of specs this phone has for the low price. Excellent camera too!
4|Good product. Would have been better if there was a finger print sensor in the machine.
5|Ultimate Experience Superb Performance Camera quality, downloading everything is superb
4|Nicely designed hardware. Needs few improvements to its software and hardware handling.
5|Superb Camera, Solid Performance, nice sound quality, sharp display. Best phone to buy.
3|Over all good phone but not as good as one plus one , also miss finger print scanner ..
5|The best design. The best configuration. The best price. Happy customer.
3|Apart from Battery life everything is good. Battery didn't stand for 6hours in my case.
1|It's very bad battery problem..... Don't buy..... Software problems.... Not good enough
5|It's a gud phone..new experience...look slim n light weight...overall gud performance..
5|No words just awesome..Camera, screen, performance in every aspect this mobile rocks...
4|OnePlus X Expires in 01d 23h 59m 22s INCB-1566-B118-17AB Use this invite
5|I don't wanna write a long review. I just wanna say its the best smartphone under ?20K.
4|Received it few days back and its sleek. A good low budget phone with advance features.
5|Need an invite .. mail me at rohit2coolhot@gmail.com .. Only 500 rs amazon gift card ..
5|If anyone like to buy an invite .email me at Keerthivicky91@yahoo.com.I have 3 invites
5|in4b-f02f-b9d0-fb74 take this invite and claim before 18 hrs .. thank you ...
5|Very good product at this price features awesome. Simply go for it, no 2nd thoughts
5|I have an invite. Anyone searching for an invite can contact me at prmanoj.04@gmail.com
5|Excellent mobile. Am a fan of oneplus and has got excellent features for the price tag.
5|one of the best products ever in such a price tag...no problems..performance is awesome
5|A great product from a great brand. 1st to buy and first to write a review for the same
3|WT*...... it's just (Today) launched and already having approx. 100 five star ratings without any reviews.... 'they' may not spending on advertisement but seems like surely on hyping strategy...
1|After use age of over 3 months I am writing this review. Don't waste your money in buying this phone. What purpose we are buying a mobile? The basic thing is to make a call or receive a call even that need was not full filled in this phone. If any one calls I will not receive a rigtone instead I will receive a missed call msg. If I tried to call the network suddenly gets disable and I can't make a call. After all these struggles I will make a call and while talking for sometime suddenly the call disconnected saying no network. After few seconds again the signal gets back. Note :My Sim is a new one I bought when I bought this. I am using a prepaid after each call the call summary details are not appearing. Even though the features are very high who want all these without fulfilling the basic needs. I got a mobile full of bugs and I wasted my money.
1|One plus two is way better.. This is just a fscy piece.. Not worth it . very fragile..
4|best phone with different feaatures of android and camera clarity is really excellent!
4|Camera quality is not very good, and at times takes time to wake up from sleep screen.
4|Nice phone but not showing any sim notifications such as balance after making any call
4|Amazing phone, value for money. Happy with all except primary camera and speaker. 8/10
4|Excellent phone with hardware but software needs lots of updates... Camera not good...
5|What s masterpiece by oneplus and delivered by Amazon. Thank you Merry Christmas.
3|Good but had some drawbacks like not recognising sd card and accepting download in it.
4|Any one needing an invite for one plus x or 2 can contact me vai watsapp on 7208787292
5|Wonderful phone I have an invite, if anyone want mail me at Jayaahuja82@gmail.com
4|Everything as expected..excellent service by Amazon ...but not happy with battery life
5|Delivery of the phone was excellent. Started using the phone,yet to get used to this .
4|IN19-7062-73B1-4AA6 IN5B-AE59-BF8A-F240 These invites will expire in 5hours.
4|I have two invite for one plus x if anyone need contact me at agnesh24.kumar@gmail.com
4|Hi, Good phone looks nice. IN27-A3F5-5217-D803 invite code if anyone wants.
5|Exemplary phone with all features embedded..magnificent display and splendid design...
4|IN06-3916-2C54-DE22 IN71-94FE-A1BA-99C0 INAD-A302-5D96-C046 Use them within 5 days!
5|Gorgeous phone. Surprising how it costs only 17k. Amazon delivered it within 24 hours!
4|For day to day use and at this budget, this is a good phone. Looks great, camera is good light conditions is good, is low-light conditions, is slightly below average, even with different camera apps. It drops a few frames in high graphic games, but if you're not into that, this is a good phone. Performance wise, very snappy. Battery life is good too. It's not really fair to expect top-quality specs and performance from a phone that isn't even at a mid-range price point. Here are invites. Valid for 1 day 6 hours from 3rd December 13.30. These are shareable invites, you might need to claim it at oneplus website. I don't know how it works. You can also email me at ravenacacia@yahoo.com. I'll email the invites to you is they're still valid. http://onepl.us/INC7-C13A-0066-F14A http://onepl.us/IN4B-2D52-6770-B6B5 http://onepl.us/INA6-BF87-BE1B-4748
5|Plz I need an invite can't wait to buy this
4|Phone has awesome specs ,great camera, good battery backup, amazing display. I haven't experienced any sort of lags so far. I just wish it had a dual led flash which is very common nowadays.
5|IN86-5EF6-485A-3FDF
5|INAB-BF09-1683-620B
4|Really good to hold
5|1 like means it's used, Hurry up, Don't wait good Phone, Grab it, INBD-BAAC-8344-0F0D
5|Very nice phone easy to use. Good camera Fast speed email are easily accessible.
5|If you're looking for the best possible phone in such a budget, buy this one blindly!
5|An awesome phone with an awesome camera, Everything about this phone is just too good
4|Best phone at this price. Camera disappointed and Betty life is OK.. Rest is awesome.
4|A very good phone whit & very good display takes good pictures with a very good price
5|Nothing better than this, Soft/ quick/ awesome performance. Go for it guys.
5|Awesome phone.... Jus go for it.... For invites contact Karthikbhat94@gmail.com
3|The phone heats up a lot! Other than that there are barely any cons for this handset.
4|IN91-40FF-936E-D6B1 IN21-EF26-35EC-A61A INEE-8AA3-1FE5-0A9E ....use it
5|Anyone needs one plus X invite......mail me to abhi.k480@gmail.com.....it is for free
5|the phone is superb.anyone wanting an invite can ask me at sayeesh.shanbhag@gmail.com
4|Awesome phone build quality of phone is very solid and from back phone look stunning.
3|One Plus should understand that this Invite system is creating corruption in society..see people are only registering on your website and selling paid invite. Pls stop this non sense..!!!
5|Only camera can b improved picture ratio is a problem but overall worths every penny
5|Good feeling in hands. Good camera. Nice sleek operating system. Great to have phone
1|17k phone no earphones even a 4k phones has earphones ... Provide me with a earphone
1|Wifi and 3G is not working. Returned the product and got refund. Don't go for it!!!!
4|Brilliant Design, crisp display, smooth performance, durable and value for money!
5|LoveD ittt ...... Everything is Good.......Battery could have been still Better
5|Got an invite to share. IN89-BA32-4B8C-45FF Enjoy this great device.
5|Any one wants invite WhatsApp 9377775566 or mail me dhameliyamahendra@gmail.com
5|Op x is great..I have an invite if someone wants email me @ manishsatyakam@gmail.com
4|if anyone has invite for one plus x plz share....my email id is dhruv_j1@yahoo.co.in
2|Friends please lemme know if it is a worthy buy? How is the quality and performance
5|Need an invite? Call me @ 9013596467 I have an invite. Price negotiable.. WhatsApp!
4|please share invites if anyone has it to smraikar104@rediffmail.com for one plus x
3|This phone is supported two sim plus one memory card or one sim plus one memory card
4|I need an invite and i want to buy this product. please share invites if u have
5|Anyone intrested in buying OnePlus X invite. Contact on +919408246301/WhatsApp Only.
5|Got my phone today ! Amazing lil fellow ! 9/10, it does heat a bit on extended use .
5|Got an invite for One Plus Two and One Plus X. Anyone looking to buy these amazing devices and is waiting for an invite, wait no more. Contact me for the invite. Ativ_sharma@yahoo.com
5|Awesome built and design. The slotted metal frame is absolutely perfect. Too glossy so lots of fingerprints. Just concerned about the battery life, 2525 mah seems a bit less for 1080 p display. Get little warm on gaming but didn't overheat. So my overall pros n cons are : Pros 1. Great desing n built 2. Display quality is really good 3. Expandable storage 4. 3 gigs 13 & 8 mp cam and snapdragon 801. Cons: 1. Battery 2525 mah only, for heavy user might not last for a full day. But ok for average user. 2.the back side is fingerprint magnet. 3. No fingerprint scanner 4.navigation button doesn't light up, but we have on screen navigation buttons option so not an issue i guess. 5. Price is (little bit ) on the higher side , should bearound 15 k.
5|I have a invite valid till Tomo 12pm if u need mail me@ muruganand05rider@gmail.com
4|AN EXCELLENT phone with good cemera but supplied without screen guard and any cover
5|Superb phone ui is very cool and camera s also good design is very good must buy it
4|Nice phone overall but battery charging takes times 1.5 hrs to charge from 0 to 100
4|Nice, sleek, stylish. It's quite fast too, but audio quality is bad for a 16k phone
1|My one plus x creating problem in sounds of ear piece like vibrating or irritating
5|Fantastic and elegent look and economical and affordable cost meets the requirement
4|product is good, just has some software issues i hope will be solved by the updates
4|Yes, am using it for almost a month now. Great phone at a handy price :)
5|amazing product from one plus. very smooth in using for all purpose for this price.
5|Excellent phone with excellent build quality such a nice piece and value for money.
5|Great phone, awesome delivery service that delivered in 1 day without extra payment
5|Looks alone justify buying. Screen is awesome. Plus sdcard support. Just go for it.
4|The battery and primary camera are poor the performances of the phone is goooioiiid
5|Three Oneplus x invites INFA-1D54-722F-2D51 IN7A-D8A1-4EA4-2BF0 INC8-5C60-2A53-8F8D
5|Fantastic product with prompt delivery... Shopping at Amazon.. Is the real deal ?
5|Wonderful phone...i have a invite to give please mail me at jatinsingh787@gmail.com
5|Hi, if any one has an invite.Kindly forward (Sms or Whatsapp) on 9821032049. Thanks
5|I require a invite ... kindly share if anyone has.. PM to glad.ruban@gmail.com
4|Pros : Good screen and resolution Handy phone Very light OS, No bloatware Okish Camera Good for Gaming(Processor+Ram+Graphic Processor) So fast and smooth video playing in youtube even though my laptop is very slow in the same network. Comes with a case Cons : Normal battery life from 100 to 2% is about 12 hrs (wifi+some gaming+Quora+Music etc) Phone is very thin, and just cuboid. Asus Zenfone model is much easier on the hand to hold for long time SD Card is not showing in the settings, so most of the apps cannot use the SD also apps cannot be installed in External SD (A solution is coming in the near upgrade in the OS which they released incrementally from the last Tuesday(24/11/2015)) Over all good phone, good delivery time and Value for money.ps:-check out Nexus phones before you buy this phone.
5|Superb phone on this price. Front camera quality is awesome. Super fast processer.
5|I have oneplus x onyx & champagne invite... Pls let me knw if any one needed...!!
3|one plus x is good smary phoe bt india langage not support so upgred the language
5|Awesome.....but dual sim k sath krdo to jyada sahii rhegaa... Overall awesome
5|Here's the invite guys anyone wants it claim it.... IN14-813F-A393-E5FB
3|OPERATING SYSTEM AND CAMERA IS GOOD BUT, BATTERY LIFE NOT GOOD AND TO MUCH HEATING
4|Over all a very good phone ... Heats up while gaming ...that's the only issue
4|Awesome phone !! Cud have much more features so 4 star ..fast delivery from Amazon
3|the main problem is with service center i dont have service center nearby my space
3|The phone heats very fast when you gaming and there is no earphones with the phone
4|Good looking, good performance, poor battery life, very delicate & heating issues.
5|Im going to buy this device and my and this is the Invite code INCF-ABFB-DB72-7B5D
4|Nice phone...but not worth battery backup....will be good if the battery is higher
5|Excellent phone have invites chargeable but reasonable whatsapp me only 9890197773
5|I have one plus x invite on 20-11-2014 Valid 3 days haneeshpld@gmail.com
5|Dear sir Please claim your invite to be used by others Best wishes
4|Phone is nice and the specifications are superb. but lil bit less responsive.
5|good looking phone
5|Excellent buy in the budget of 17K . have been using for more than 3 weeks now. Touch, display, Speaker and Cam stand out. Phone front and back is of onyx glass so have to be careful with the handling . but the backcase given in the box is handy. Its having good grip. Battery performance is good . I recharge it to full daily at around 4Pm daily and its coming till next day 3Pm with 20-25% left . I continuously use FB, WhatsApp, twitter . I don’t play games on it. So cant comment on battery life while playing games. Music clarity on speaker is very good. Response is very fast as it has 3GB RAM. Only thing to look out is, it has dual sim but if you want to use external memory then only one sim can be used. 2nd sim slot is either for sim or memory card.
4|realy good one.best in perfomance. trust of purity.best things in its price.
2|Bad battery backup and heating lot when u playing games... Otherwise looking good
5|Amezing phone and nice function in it but i think it requied seprate sd card slot
5|Worth Buying this product. Value for Money. I have used all Handsets of One Plus.
5|Its a batman phone. Its insanely great. Its style is premium. Makes feel premium.
5|good looking, great performance , satisfactory battery use. Meets all expectation
5|For me the phone is worth for the money. Battery life is not that good. Good one.
5|The product is really bang for the bucks. True high performance for a less price.
5|bravo phone.. if any one what free invite so contact on shaggysusheelan@gmail.com
3|Need invite Also want to know if the front camera has self timer opton
5|i got invite for this.if anyone want then just mail me. chinmaypanda53@gmail.com
3|Phone is good but some time phone heat when phone at charging and watching video.
5|One day delievery by amazon. Awesome phone in 17000/- A must buy phone.
4|It's a v nice n smart luking phone..browsing connectivity is vv fast..good look.
4|If any one want to buy, Pls use my invite OnePlus X IN40-07EE-F6F5-5AF0
5|All features of a high end smartphone in this power packed budget phone! Love it!
3|am waiting for that any one pls help me phone good or not .any issue for mobile..
4|If anyone wants to buy the phone.. below is the invite code: IN5A-7B22-A909-99B0
5|Absolute on time delivery, received my phone at 2 pm on Nov 8th. Excellent phone.
5|First Impression.....Looks way expensive than actual price......Butter smooth....
5|awesome cell phone Contact. Me for the invite of one plus x on this no 8879465084
2|Shipment was fast and packaging was good. However, I really dont like this one plus X. This is my first One Plus product and I was so excited while placing the order. However, after receiving it, the feel of the phone was ''Wish I had discarded the invite". Had we pay the same cost to Mi, we would definitely get a features. The option of either two sim or one sim and one memory card is again disappointing. Shedding another 5K would have fetched me iphone5s, which is far better than this phone and that too with finger print scanner. Definitely One Plus two would sink soon if they are going to continue with this pricing in India. While Apple has reduced the prices by half, its time for one plus to follow the suit to save themselves from getting wiped off from Indian market.
3|Touch screen has delayed response Also other goole applications have issues
5|Got it delivered as promised. Looks decent and works decent. Overall nice phone.
5|excellent phone...which 3 GB RAM ,16 GB ROM and front & rear camera is also good
4|I like the phone very much and it meets all my requirements at a reasonable cost
5|Mobile is good looking. Performance is ok. Price is reasonable. Worth to own it.
5|AMOLED display makes the phone beautiful and different from other android phones
5|Item delivered very fast before the date, and same as specified fully satisfied.
4|There are some speed issues when it comes to gaming but otherwise a nice mobile!
5|Hello Friends, I have 2 One Plus X invites, genuine purchase call on 7028028138
5|It's a wonderful n amazing phone. Need invite contact Shanker.Bantu@gmail.com
5|I want one invite from you to buy one plusx.please can any one invite me pls pls
4|Really good phone... 2 invites available Mail me: aman.sng01@gmail.com
5|Worth for money. Make & Looks are superb. Lite Weight. Not a bad battery back up
5|Super Fast processor, Camera is also Better than any other mobile in this range.
5|To anyone at first glance, it looks like at least a 50k phone. My mind was blown when I first held the device in my hand! This device is so beautiful that it looks like a work of art. It is completely jet black with gorilla glass 3 at the front and back. The device is super-slim with a thickness of 6.9mm and has metal running around the sides. Also, the metallic rim has grooves for a better grip. It has a nice slim design, with black glass both at the front and back. The metallic rim has lines engraved for superior grip and feel. Looks: 10/10, Stunning looks, fashionable for sure. As per talking of performance just 1 hour ago i received my phone, So will review it on performance parameters in a couple of days. Will post it soon. Till then #NeverSettle
3|I bought it only based on excellent look in images. Item is not as described. Steel chrome doesn't look like in steel color. If the middle chrome display in actual color of steel then its amazing. But it doesn't meet expectations look wise. Oxygen OS also just ok, not great and comfortable compare to actual android. provided plastic case which is hiding the mobile good look. And not provided ear phones. Need to handle very care as it is glass finishing. So we need to use case to protect, but in that case it looks normal mobile only. Either 2 nano sims or only one sim and micro SD option also one of the drawback. If we need to open sim/sd slot, then we need to use a kind of small needle. otherwise u cant open. About battery, Its coming for me 1 to 1 and half day.
4|Reviewing the product after using it for 2 days - Have got an invite as well (number at the end, text me if you need an Invite) Pros - Good looks, perfect size, screen is on par with S6, customization is easy, good battery life (no heating issues) - 1 day with 4 hours screen usage, some camera and was always connected to WiFI, still had 21% at 11 PM. Camera is a nice surprise, I've attached a pic i took yesterday.. on par with my SLR. No lag absolutely and is very responsive. Cons - No ear phones, Proximity wake up setting keeps waking up the phone when you are talking, finger print magnet (if you don't use a case). Verdict - Go for it, you'll not get a better phone for this price! Whatsapp me if you need an invite (9844119859)
5|I lile this mobile too much.....i kickoff the Samsung phone from my house......
5|I have purchase one plus x through amazone but due to some reason u I want back
4|Good Phone, but can't use both sims along with memory card. Overall good phone.
4|Premium look, oxygen OS, gives pure Android experience and that is biggest plus
4|I was searching for a best phone in 5 inch finally i got one plus X. I love it.
5|Great smart phone.. Beautiful looks.. Ultimate interface... Working smoothly..
4|Gr8 phone at this price, camera quality also above avg . Display looks gorgeous
5|Phone has classy looks,great performance & every feature that one would desire.
4|Free one plus X Invite. Use it in the next 8 hrs INFA-AEA7-7819-3C2F
5|Awesome service by Amazon, I received in 2 days.One X is great and fast mobile.
4|INB1-397C-0EDA-576B INBC-B914-E61B-AB9C use it within 30 hours.
5|Premium built, good call quality along with long lasting hardware and features.
5|I have no words to say about it It compact handy smooth smart Muaaaah
5|Amazing phone .Really smooth and fluid interface. Super fast delivery by amazon
5|Awesome device.i have some invites,if need email me pritesh.chaudhari@gmail.com
5|Any one want an invite contact (only whatsapp - 9655353675)Has one day validity
5|Free Invite: IN37-E460-2E19-7D9E & IN05-B3AA-2DB6-01B9 Use it in next 23 hours
5|Anyone need invite.. +91-9882530889 Vivek4oct@mail.com Hurry up limited period
2|I got faulty instrument so cant say anything. Going to return the product now.
5|Mobile is good looking and delivery of mobile is fast compare to expectation..
5|Awesome phone... Great screen quality... Decent camera.... Premium looks...
5|Amazing products and for the price it's a bargain. Thanks OnePlus and Amazon.
4|Nice phone. But not perfect. 4 stars. Its battery could have been better.
4|Poor battery and the phone gets hang sometimes it is not a use friendly phone
4|Everything works fine....battery is small..camera is fine..design is very nice
5|inb2-74e1-6530-e50b If any one use it . Reply on manas.europhia@gmail.com
5|Nice phone, good battery. Camera is slightly slow but above average not great.
4|I am satisfied.. Have a few invites.. Contact me on drmadhurnavlani@gmail.com
5|Mail me for one plus X invite.. Valid till tonight.. harsh_arora@hotmail.co.in
4|I have a invite intimate me on aayush.xyz@gmail , validity two days from today
5|It's simple beauty. U will fall head over heels in love with it beyond doubt.
5|Got an invite. If any one wants to have then contact prvnakamustang@gmail.com.
5|One plus x invite at reasonable price Contact: anishkumarrathee@gmail.com
4|Fabulous phone. Whoever needs an invite for the same can Whatsapp (7299822729)
5|i have an invite for opx. not for sale.. contact me at samarjot31@gmail.com...
5|Guys I need one plus x invite, so if anyone have kindly inbox me +917092630426
4|Anyone needs invite ping me at 9880700080... By the way phone is awesome... :)
5|please can any one send me an invite i am very much waiting to buy this phone.
5|I have an extra invite.Mail me if you are interested. ashishpayal20@gmail.com
2|This phone have big processing to all type games. There is big problem heating . and too much heating. You con't touch this phone when heated on your ear and skin.
5|Excellent mobile.
5|I bought it 4m amazon sale only rs 14999. Great specification at cheap price.
4|Its a good phone.. But dint get invites on time after d phone was delivered..
5|SIMPLY AWESOME .. BUT WORDS WILL BE NOT ENOUGH TO DESCRIBE THIS BEAUTY
5|Hi I'm Atif Oneplus x awesome os & awesome battery backup thanks oneplus
5|Best ohone ever cover amd screen guard included best canera everythings wirth
4|Very nice & fast mobile at this price. Superb &, beautiful design to hold..
4|Awesome phone If anybody need invite mail me tariqueanwar2903@gmail.com
4|Optimised features at the cost. Contact me for invites. WhatsApp - 9441902861
5|Awesome phone that u can get in this range. Nice display and battery pack up.
3|I have invite for Oneplus X . Anyone wants to buy what's app me on 8939740131
4|I have more invites for lowest Cost.. Need an invite....watsapp me@9597600553
4|Just received an invite!!! Expires in 72hrs.. Contact on simran4982@gmail.com
5|I have a claimed invite IN4A-4F02-87B1-7BA0 .........use it any body need it
5|amazing phone i never ever seen phone like this... its cool nd pretty stylish
5|Excellent phone. Received just now. Yet to explore but first look is great.
4|I have 3 OPX invite to share,email me if anyone required @ nandadba@gmail.com
4|Any one having one plus x invite please share to me:nuv61phanikumar@gmail.com
5|I have an invite of one plus x if any one want it what's app me on 8401119678
4|Looks: This phone looks one of the best out there! The edge curves and the back look spectacular. Display: FHD AMOLED display looks great, there have been complaints that AMOLED display seems dark but with this phone the AMOLED display works wonderfully because of the OxygenOS. Performance: The phone did get quite heated up during one of the software updates but during normal use its been quite stable. Switching between apps is very smooth because of the 3GB of RAM that is provided along with snapdragon 801 processor. Although I did notice a few pixels lagging while playing a game. 1 star was negated for this above point itself. All in all its a great phone for the price and 1 I would recommend to my friends.
1|First of all music lovers its major drawback because no earphone included with this phone. secondly phone lot of bugs in it like you can't set your camera to save the photos storage to external SD, cannot reduce notification volume, auto brightness is not available, battery back up pathetic hardly 5 hours, very quickly phone gets heated. These kind of high end smart phones are meant for extensive use and not for just picking the phone or sms. Total failure, One Plus you need lot of improvement to come back to Industry.Before launching any phone to market test them properly and ensure you meet all the basic needs of the customer and dont unnecessarily make customers fool by asking them wait for invite to buy the phone.
3|I just bought this phone on 28th Nov 2015.Phone looks and feels great.I did a lot of research before I bought but sadly I missed a lot of basic features.It is pure stock android,so no gallery visible.you don't know where your SD card is located and the photos on it.One major issue is the switch between WiFi and Mobile data,which did not happen unless i rebooted it every time.If you own a Samsung phone before,you will miss those features.Apart from it The phone has a clear HD display,Camera is above average in this mid-range segment phones and the look and feel of this phone is simply wow.If your willing to compromise on those slight few things and if you like small phones 5 inches.Please buy this.Its worth the money.
4|Nice Phone.. But a Snapdragon 808 and better display would have been great..
4|A pretty good phone... Solves all your purposes I.e. to call ,text and stuff
5|Great phone, very handy and amazingly fast and very responsive touchscreen.
4|Everything is fine ..but one and only con is battery issue ..draining fast..
5|Anyone want invite ? Then mail me deepak_matta@yahoo.com just for Rs 200..
5|Anyone wants the invite.. 3 days expiry Mail me: 321vijaypaulite@gmail.com
5|Have invites to share for freee ....genuine buyers mail me kapilvk@gmail.com
5|It's an amazing phone. Please go ahead and buy it. It's truly worth for 17k.
5|The best phone at best price n the awesome configuration iam loving it....
3|This is my first Oneplus x phone and i am not very happy neither very disappointed with this phone. Here are my rating details : 1. Camera : 4/10 2. Display : 8/10 3. Built Quality : 9.5/10 4. Processing : 6/10 5. Video Quality : 6.5/10 overall quality is 6.5/10 or 7/10 bcoz camera is very disappointing and very very slow processing in HDR mode. And even i am not able to caputre pictures with flash. There is no flash when i open camera. while during video there is showing flash options check screenshot also for camera not showing flash option.. camera is very disappointing in this mobile. If you are camera loving person then don't buy this phone.
5|Very Good Phone. Excellent Quality. Super fast Delivery. Thank you Amazon
4|Nice phone value for money nothing more u should expect in this price range
4|Excellent display, beautiful design, nice camera, super speed, poor battery
5|Loved mobile in all ways. Look, performance, battery back-up, heating etc..
4|Very Good Phone. Worth the money spent. Good size .. Handy and easy to use.
4|its very handy and look and feel is amazing , one drawback is getting heat.
5|Fantastic phone for the price!! Light firmware and great Android experience
3|This mobile have only problem no gallery. Images u can't scroll one by one.
5|great phone i loved it... smooth and fast with fantastic specifications....
5|Best smartphone for the price you pay!! Impressed after one month of usage
3|Camera performance is poor..... But design was superb and awesome.....
5|anyone needs invite take it here IN1B-30E1-E330-3B81 amazing set must buy
3|You CAN NOT move apps to SD card... It is good looking and has a nice body
5|Awesome Phone, blazing fast delivery from Amazon :) Made my Diwaali 2015...
4|1.IN0B-61C9-C0AB-97F0 2.IN8E-74A2-03B7-47EE 3.IN36-F7ED-BF40-65B8
3|Stands another 12hours.On or before 21-11-15 INEE-0641-07A5-A0DC
5|Best Phone from OnePlus. Very compact, good configuration, value for money.
5|Classes Mobile very nice in look and performers good worth for given money.
4|Excellent product with right cost. Screen touch smooth performance is good
4|Nice one and work properly but battery finished very fast ... .... Why????
4|It's been more than a month and had a great experience without any issues.
5|Just saw an update on OnePlus Forum :- OxygenOS 2.2.0 on OnePlus X today. This update will include: 1) Manual mode for Camera App 2) Save to SD card option in Camera App 3) USSD bug fix for India 4) Added dual SIM preferences back in system settings 5) OTA App upgrade 6) Security patches 7) General bug fixes and optimizations. I ordered for my friend and he love it specially built quality and design.
5|Amazing phone.. Totally worth the buy.. Enjoying the one plus experience..
3|Good phone, but the screen broke and this I understand is not in warrantee
5|one of the best phone from oneplus..in all aspects very handy..really kool
5|Awesome phone ...Best phone available under 20k ...Battery life is good .
5|Fast, Great looks, Sharp display, what better cam you get at this price...
5|The best available Premium phone available in market, in this price range.
5|Here's the other invite i got: IN3B-66A7-02D4-533C claim it within 3 day.
5|ONE PLUS X really superb INAD-1AD0-3F80-002A -- with in 3 days will exp..
4|IN3C-B70F-E6B7-CFBF claim with in 48 hours.... Great mobile for the price.
4|Got a one plus x invite any interested to buy it plz contact on 9805364050
4|Powerful and elegant! Light and Sleek! Waiting for the update on storage..
3|Premium looks and feel... But heating issues as observed in any OP phones.
5|Gorgeous phone. Next day delivery by Amazon as always. Can't ask for more.
5|INEA-2A84-6786-DC57 It is already activated . Free gift for all.
5|IN00-0B26-18BB-6626 Guys here is an invite use it but don't miss use it..
5|I have a invite for Opx... If any1 needs mail me at oneplusmanav@gmail.com
5|awesome phone luxury feeling n free invits at nishantnw9999@gmail.com guys one word come frm mouth whn u hv this phone in ur hand tht is wowwwwwww
1|The phone have several problems like wifi issue the wifi is shown connected but it is not working in phone. I have taken it to service center they are saying that it is defective piece and they are saying that they have no authority to change the device they say talk to Amazon where yu buy it from.. :(
4|SD Card issue : OnePlus has announced the start of the OxygenOS 2.1.3 OTA update rollout Can say awesome..... I just love the design and performance. Let's start with cons: 1 SD card problem ( but don't worry one plus Confirms that they will resolve it soon) 2 Camera is good but not great 3 decent battery ( can't expect more power when phone is slimmer) 4 slightly heats up but not an big issue But overall best mobile to buy. Pros: Display, performance, look, built quality, no network issues for me, customization is good, Many complained no gallery but please check it has inbuilt photos app. Speakers are good and audible. Soft touch. Etc Highly recommendable..good phone go for it.
4|i wan this phone
5|Excellent mobile
5|Amazing phone! No regrets.. Much better than a lot of high priced phones.
5|Excellent it's apleure using this phone. I thank Amazon , thank you.
4|One of the best phone for the money you spend. OnePlus never disappoints.
4|Phone is just amazing it makes me feel good nice product made by one plus
5|Very nice phone suited for india.. Don't waste money buying other brands.
4|premium finish..as expected quality from one plus...recommended always...
5|Its a must buy smartphone for 17000 great features and looks very premium
5|Got an invite...any takers? ...can mail me at dramyzonline@gmail.com
4|IN1F-3179-AD5D-F5BD Here's a claimed invite people.. Use it asap.!,
5|Can't buy one plus X for now. IN3C-C24A-A8F8-D83C use this invite. Enjoy.
5|Amazing product! A definite buy. Excellent service from amazon_#impressed
5|Need a invite please share it dambaru@gmail.com or WhatsApp to 9937842473
5|I have a one plus x invite so interested ones what's app me on 9417758953
5|Nice phone. Exceptional display..amazing camera and smooth performance...
5|Good buy is all I can say. Like the design and no problems like heating.
4|Am very happy about the service.. Phone looks gorgeous,!!!!! Love it!!!! After using it for 2month m forced to write this About the looks n built quality this phone s a sure shot success but when cmg to the hardware n software it lags a lot n the oxy os itself hav more bugs. The processor which provided is a bit old 801 the one which s on the op1 still that phone doesnt show up any lag while playing mini games coz it runs on cyanogen os my guess is that the oxy os which ruins the performance
5|superb build quality and superb stylish. oxygen 2.1.3x ,nice interface.
4|Nice features,Nice look,Nice camera quality, it is 100%worth purchasing.
3|Only appearance is good, I don't feel the mobile is damn good.Not worthy
4|Not a Tech Savvy Guy to comment on specs...But a gud experience overall.
4|Just one day before I started to use this mobile. Overall I working good
4|Anyone looking for a compact phone with solid features should go for it.
4|Brilliant phone.. Might have been even more awesome with cyanogen in it.
5|awesome product .. love it till now ... camera could have been better ..
4|Awesome phone.... Contact gauravsharma@outlook.in for invites
4|Anyone looking for an invite temme know. I have three shareable invites.
5|For invite contact me - harrymail07@gmail.com Only One invite left!
4|For one plus X invite contact prithvi.kaushik55@gmail.com Its for Rs 500
5|Great looks say it all.You won't get a better phone at this price range.
5|I want to know that whether it supports cdma network of reliance, or not
5|i have iinvitation if anyone need whatSapp me 7702811536
5|If you need an invite then email me on yuvraj322@gmail.com @Rs. 300
5|Excellent while compared with Lenovo's k4note and mi phones and Samsung
5|GREAT PHONE.LOOKS BEAUTIFULL.OVERALL GOOD PACKING BY AMAZON..KEEP IT UP
4|Still it has to Improve its battery life, otherwise it is nice mobile?
1|It misses mobile network every now and then. When rebooted, it regains.
4|Flash light not working during clicking camera..please solve my problem
4|Nice phone but little bit expencive I love this phone very much.
5|I have an extra invite....if u need..mail at archil.prajapati@gmail.com
4|Good phone. Except for 4g network and camera, everything else is good.
2|One plus radio not working... Came to know after 30 days of purchase...
5|Speechless its true unbelievable. nice product amazing look.
5|IN34-B687-35CB-4924 before 5 days INC4-8BBA-E59B-AD0B before 5days
5|IN9D-55E3-A5E7-7EA6 Free invite guys .. Enter in capital letters only
4|Simply perfect... Gorgeously looking amoled display..and insanely fast.
3|Mobile is good but camera is not that much good like OnePlus 1&2 mobile
5|I have an invite montu.sardonic@gmail.com what app 9009493070
5|awesome phone with awesome features cant w8. just w8ing for an invites.
1|Don't buy worst phone..very laggy nd touch response is very bad..i have called the customer care nd sent lot of mails but no proper response
5|love using this phone, sexy look and size is good, smooth functioning.
4|Distinguishes us among other. But cannot be compared with one plus one
4|Overall a good product except the battery being weak and poor capacity
5|Best phone in price range 15000-20000 very good performance
3|it is okay only but the phone becomes hot so soon so that i it is okay
5|Excellent product. Very happy with the purchase. True Value for money.
4|IN5D-0684-14CF-ECDC claim and use it. Good phone at reasonable price.
5|I have one plus invite.. Anyone needs it txt me in watsapp 9740897290
4|If anyone need one plus x invite claim it and buy IN31-04B7-E5C3-715D
5|Handy phone Amazing looks OS needs to be improved more
5|This one is amazing! Just close your eyes and hit the purchase button!
5|I have an invite.. Ready to give it for free...watsapp at 9704176293
5|Free indian invite Two days time to claim INBB-CB8D-398D-954F.. Enjoy
4|Share: OnePlus X invite Mail me at praneetdhingra3@gmail.com
5|Excellent phone. No alternate for this beast. Don't think just buy!
5|Front camera is great.. Look's sexy...got it in 2 days..amazing Amazon
3|It's a nice beautiful phone... If u want one...call me 9029279000
5|Love this phone
4|Wonderful phone
5|Simply the best
5|Simply the best
4|Really good phone. Well better than the one that I last owned And I would like to add.. I personally think it's illegal to give all these specs for a phone worth lesser than 20k.. Pros: 1. love the camera 2. excellent display 3. 3 gb ram.. No words 4. stylish looks 5. Oxygen OS.. ooooooooo Cons: 1. glass back. Kinda slippery without a case 2. no gallery.. There's only Google photos or else gotta Install a 3rd party gallery app from the play store but then that's oxygen. No Comments 3. No earphones. Like seriously? Enough reading reviews. Start buying.
5|Sleek and fast. The OxygenOS is without any preloaded apps. The display is beautiful.With so much power under the hood,it is surprisingly very lightweight. The device built is premium and the cover which came helped because it is prone to prints. Get an OtterBox-it is slippery without the cover. The 5 size is very comfortable being not too large or small.Quite happy with the X device. Hope OnePlus continues to surprise us with such beautiful devices. Way ahead of others in performance at this price. There is no competition for OnePlus except Xiaomi. Good work from Amazon on delivery. Received next day after ordering.
4|I could have rate it full five star if it had got good camera quality
4|It's wonderful. I like so much. Camera is amazing thank you one pluse
4|Value for money product. It has awesome looks and very nice hardware.
4|IN92-D7B4-E5C1-F2AF INC9-431F-817B-7100 INDA-4B6F-F975-9928
5|Excellent design ,features & specifications with reasonable price
5|High quality phone with fast response, good sound and camera quality.
5|Best phone at this price range. Battery life could have been better .
3|Battery gets suck when you use it on normal basis. Rest is awesome :)
5|Best phone at the given price.ping me for invite whatsapp -9441902861
4|Very good phone Premium feel Good camera great screen just go for it.
5|amazing phone for 17k invite available for details contact 8884118074
5|IN1F-7D4E-1A43-7C45 IN51-918C-CAF4-0321 IN31-09FC-E11A-5713
3|Leave a watsapp msg if anyone needs a invite..!! 9716945119
5|Best of all phones under 17000 with great display and specifications.
5|Awesome phone.... I have invite anyone want whatsapp me 8866100832
5|I have invite for one plus x if anybody intrested contact@09212286647
5|Very Worthfull .... Here are some invites claim it to activate ... :)
5|Onrplus X invite available...... Dm me on instagram..... Danisharma23
5|Worth your money. For a phone under 17k it exceeds your expectations.
5|anyone need invite to buy oneplus x? Here it is : IND6-AF5C-F664-D255
5|Best mobile of the year. INVITE AVAILABLE what's app me +919650044566
1|e phone comes with variety of problems: 1. Either sim 2 or sd card can be used at one time. This is a surprise as no phones today have such inferior problem. The slot has option to either put sim2 or sd card. 2. SD card has many issues. It doesn't detect the card. Read reviews on Google about this issue. 3. After system update is downloaded you see error, "Download could not be verified, download again". Have wasted my 1gb data yet no success. 4. Very basic apps like galary, file browser etc. is missing. Overall experience is very poor. I don't recommend it to anyone.
5|Would like to thank One Plus for such an. Amazinh product "X" . The differentiator is Amoled Screen which makes it different from many product in same segment. Pros: Amoled screen Touch competes with Apple 3GB Ram Voice quality Amazing speaker Camera is the best. Secondary gives competition. Good handling. Cons UI of other androids. Cant text contact from messages Multiwindow doesnt exist Nfc But cant expect all for Rs 17K. Overall morevaluabke than money paid. Thanks to Amazon again for delivering before time.
1|PHONE IS OKAY BUT CHOOSING BETWEEN DUAL SIM DATA USAGE CAN BE A PROBLEM. USING THE CAMERA IS A BIT COMPLEX. ZOOMING IS A BIT OF A DRAWBACK. SELFIE QUALITY IS GOOD. AND BIGGEST DRAWBACK IS THE FINGERPRINT PRONE FRONT AND BACK PANELS. YOU DONT GET AN EARPHONE BUT A MOBILE COVER THATS GOOD. THE IDEA OF GIVING 2 NANO SIMS AND A NANO AND A MICRO SD IS A BIT UNPROFESSIONAL. DATA PROBLEM OF DISCONNECTION OCCURS ALWAYS. DOUBLE TAP WAKE UP FAULTY AT TIMES. SIM SIGNAL VANISHES ON SIM 1 BUT NOT ON SIM 2.
4|I got the phone and am very happy but the one speaker is not working
4|Was a gift. Delivered on time and the person is happy with the gift.
5|AMAZING PHONE IN JUST 16999, Its too good, sleek, i love this phone.
3|Phone gets too hot while gaming and charging. Other features are OK.
5|Fantastic phone and beauty, even if price is higher worth each rupee
5|I love it .. and best phone .. now waiting for one plus power bank..
4|Phone is just great and fast especially with 4G network. I am happy.
5|Have used it for a week now.Totally satisfied. Thumbs up to One Plus
5|I need invite Code please share with me @ prashantpracheta@gmail.com
5|Invites available at reasonable cost Call/Whatsapp - 9035270497
5|If any one need one plus x invite whatsapp me 9491917141 immediately
3|Product is too good Bt price is greater than expectations
5|i have an invite for 400 rs ...pls contact at praveenstar30@yahoo.in
2|A phone is as good as the user experience! OnePlus X lost miserably in this area. Having been dissatisfied with the hardware performance of Mi4i, I thought an additional investment of Rs.4,000 would mean better hardware capabilities. However, the software is a huge disappointment. Imagine a camera app on the phone which does not have a flash option (while the flash is physically available on the phone). After experiencing the magnificence of MiUi (the only drawback for Mi4i was the lack of encryption, unable to take back and restore, camera quality etc), Oxygen OS is no match. You'll hate the phone for the OS.
2|One plus x will not support dual sim and SD card both together. Either dual sim or one sim and SD card so think before buying it.
4|Excellent phone. User friendly. Best Android at the worthable price
5|Best mid range phone . Once OS is stabilised no phone can beat this
1|Not satisfied with the product...camera is not functioning properly
5|I can't remove Google Search Bar from wallpaper Screen. Plz help...
5|Good looking, fast, value for money phone with decent battery life
5|Nice phone....one plus x .....Love...it Give...5 Star
5|Its an amazing phone with great camera.. The best in the segment!!!
5|My expectation was completely satisfied on delivering this product.
4|Very good fone...but slippery back so falls from most surfaces. ...
4|Nice phone, stylish.volume is little less than other phones I felt.
5|Great product. Amazing screen and OS. Quite happy with the product.
5|Amazing phone... Value for money...Fast delivery...Kudos Amazon....
1|not upto the mark built is solid however software is very week
1|D'not purchase ONE PLUS X MOBILE,THIS PHONE NOT SUPPORTING SD CARD.
5|A good product and commitment to delivery and customer satisfaction
5|I have extra invite wanted to give someone watsapp me on 9033647122
4|INC0-4496-1D33-BCAE Use it if anyone wants it that bad........
4|Good phone for d price..nice look..rest I'll write after using it!!
2|It was horrible experience, two times i received defective product.
5|Here is the invite. Valid until tomorrow night. IN81-AA2A-63DE-A198
5|Any one can use this invite expires in two days IN89-CD39-EE9D-8F32
5|Amazing stuff. If anyone wants an invite, please MSG on 7639571160
5|Invite available (chargable) contact-siddharth.bhargava13@gmail.com
5|Anyone need a paid invite... Contact_ vimal.christo7@gmail.com
5|Great Product with Little Older spec build quality great
5|Anybody needs oneplus invite contact me at mdeepaktheboss@gmail.com
5|Beautiful and beast. Best in this range both quality and spec wise.
5|Just love it. Awesome Phone, Performance,Looks,Display,Camera 10/10
5|I heard that amaxon delivery service is amaxing but i found totally oposite this time.. Too late delivery after complaining few times finally i got my onyx One Plus X... Looks - i can give all credit to look.. Back side finishing is superb but the thing is that u can't use mb without cover cause back side catches fingerprints easily... Features- awesome.. No complain in this criteria.. No dual flash but thats fine.. One thing i noticed is that mb is getting heat on use of more than 25 mins.. Little frustrating.. But at the proce of 16999, this is the best mobile.!!
1|I was given invite and when I tried to claim the valid invite, I got a message that invite is invalid. Help given is not helpful
5|Awesome mobile
5|got a invite..
3|Good phone, but some heating issues are there if we play games.
5|Build Quality looks better than OnePlus2. Display is amazing.
4|Decent phone for the price. 3GB RAM and the Screen are a big plus.
3|Beautiful but not having enough brain. Doesn't support otg.?
5|Great phone... Nice to use too... Battery could be a bit stronger
4|Battery life is not up to expectation, otherwise I am enjoying it.
4|Slim and sleek. Proud to be a user of this mobile. So far so good.
4|It's amazing. Amazing clarity & performance as well, worth owning.
4|Camera is nice. But could have been better. Rest all is very good.
5|good looking with all features good ram with very slim its so nice
3|i have one invite! Those wo need , mail me at simpletaru@gmail.com
5|Excellent product. Before time delivery within 4 days. Keep it up.
5|Got 3 invites to share... Email or ping - roy.soumadipta@gmail.com
4|IN12-DF5E-B461-1164. IN31-012F-B37F-4BD0 Please use before 47hrs
5|If u want the invite ...contact me Mail:ravitejathati181@gmail.com
4|OnePlus X Invite : IN8C-C51E-2D6F-8160 Expiring soon. Enjoy !
5|Njoy the device... few hours left to use it.. INB1 E889 0D9A OO1D
5|need an invite to buy, plz help me. avsrathod@gmail.com
5|Invite @ 999 only....contact me at srine469@gmail.com / 9790792837
5|Best phone ever but the hardware keys do not light up ... Annoying
5|Worth the deal... A different look from standard one plus device..
5|I Have three One plus x Invite. If anyone needed just contact me.
1|Mine came in the box broken cracked screen just bulls*** and crap
5|Good phone with excellent performance in budget. Awesome 1+ team
4|Nice and very easy to operate camera clearity is awsome.....
4|Good phone for the price. I am satisfied with what I got in this.
3|Better option to Buy Motorola X Play 32 GB ROM, at the same price
5|I loved it very nice and thanks amazon for quick delivery m happy
5|It is really a beautiful mobile for this cost. And user friendly.
4|Looks : 5 star Handling : 5 star Performance : 4.5 star
3|Does this phone connects with wifi? Oneplus one does not connect.
5|Excellent looks and performance. Best device at this price point.
4|Good looks. Good memory. Good speed. Battery life can be improved
5|Great phone with great price. It arrive before the delivery date.
5|No other phone so awesome offers a lower price than the Oneplus X
5|Amazing service and phone; sincerely recommend this phone to buy.
4|Do this phne have face detection software? And finger print lock?
3|Extended memory Card (microSD) of 128 GB or 64 GB not recognized.
5|Excellent Phone. Only drawback is Camera Features.Value for money
4|Any one need invite for one plus 2 & one plus x ,call 9966851999
5|Need invite please any one help me my mobile number is 8464819418
5|Its a master piece. No complaints from two weeks of heavy usage,
5|I have an invite for OnePlus X pls Whatsapp me on +91 8446975028
5|If anybody wants an invite of Oneplus x whatsapp me on 9429336365
3|Packing is not up to mark. otherwise I would have been given 4/5.
4|Best phone under 20k. I have one 1+x invite expiring on 17th Nov.
5|Same phone as I expected from one plus one but maxx audio lacking
5|i have one plus x invite.. contact me at shekhar000707@gmail.com.
5|Any one interested I have invite required what's app 9030999989
5|loved the phone , awesome tech used in making it till now no prob
3|need invite for one plus X or one plus 2 just watsapp 9911996437
5|Superb device........very smooth......go for it..... I loved it..
5|OPX is perfect sized, good looking, well priced mobile phone.
4|Need a oneplus x invite. Pls share at Dipti.cal@gmail.com. Thanks
5|I have two invites whatapps me at 9036596442 ( its paid not free)
5|want oneplus x invite..email me at -anuragkumarsharma19@gmail.com
5|anyone need invite for one plusx plz.whtsup 8129710233
5|Best in class Design Built is the top notch feature of this phone
5|Good phone if anyone need invite mail me at guptamayur69@yahoo.in
5|By specs its best mobile to buy but by service center its worst!!
5|Good Phone. Pros: 1. Excellent finish and looks. 2. AMOLED screen with just the right-fit screen size 5". 3. Expandible memory. 4. Browse through windows smoothly. Thanks to the 3GB RAM. Cons: 1. User interface could have been better. Hope it gets better with new Oxygen version. 2. No installed file manager (with search) and Gallery. Will have to download from play-store. Overall : Worth the money. Definitely good for this price range. Can't ask for more. User interface could have been a little better.
5|Using from last two months. No issues apart from oxygen os bugs.
4|Fully satisfied, if there is also an option of extra card slot .
4|Hardware is good Small issue with speaker..over all good package
5|Super phone no doubt, go for it rich look and good performances.
5|Go for it. Excellent product. Very good quality; user interface.
5|awesome but little bit disappointed with cam and internal memory
4|Great looks, super performance. No issues. Working like a charm.
5|Very Good Phone no doubt for it's look , quality and performance
4|Free INVITE for One Plus X claim in 3 days - INF7-2F3A-C6BC-0B08
5|Awsm mob ....got oneplus x and using it..recommended for my frnd
5|Product is best in class but amazon's service was worst in class
5|The phone is just awesome. Just three days of usage but no lags.
4|Free invite for one plus x INA1-148D-59F6-E1D8 . Claim it first
5|Two invites available .. please text me on ravikumr563@gmail.com
4|Great buy, fully satisfied with the purchase. Worth every paisa!
4|Pls send an invite if anybody has it to muralikumar.63@gmail.com
5|Oneplus X Invite expired in 4hrs IN81-6F1B-37FC-20DA asap use it
4|Simply superbb ... I have loved it... Camera was amazing..
4|Wow. Really good phone. Handsfree must be provided with pack.
4|Good phone, very elegant. Oily one thing lacks VoLTE technology
5|I am very much satisfied with the product. It deserves 5 stars.
3|its good phone camera outstanding but battery is less efficient
4|Good Phone, battery life & delay in software upgrades a concern
4|Performance wise good. Good speed. No battery issues.
5|Awesome product from one plus.. The best in this price bracket.
3|Phone is Good but not so user friendly as other Company Phones.
5|A powerful android phone closest to the size a phone should be.
4|Good product. Worth for money. Let me use for some more days...
5|Awesome! Excellent camera quality.. Good performance. Worth buy
3|No headphone is included with the phone which is just cheating.
3|Its good but icons n fonts not seems much attractive just OK ok
3|This is a good phone, with an excellent camera but poor battery
4|Great product so far. Impeccable on time delivery on a Weekend.
5|I had one plus one and since I lost it I had to buy one plus x
4|Quick delivery and product was safe with expectation fulfilled.
5|1+x best in class handy, looks simply beautiful cheers oneplus
4|I have a activated invite for 350.... Whts app me on 8395954434
3|phone is simply superb.invites are available.whatsap@9491962418
2|I have one plus x invite pl connect ...7767983103 whatsapp only
5|I have few invites , pm me for details @ gamingod2012@gmail.com
5|Whoever wants OnePlus X invite can inbox me edisondsa@gmail.com
3|Looks wise its excellent, nice to hold, but i am not satisfied with the software and hardware, some simple things in the software which i could not digest in this was music app and gallery app and lack of operator messages of balance data/balance amount left. You can not assign a song (downloaded or copied) to each individual as caller tones apart from only specific inbuilt ringtones..after installing some basic app and some other data ..you have to deal with 5-6 gb of memory in hand which is too less. Camera quality is good.... returning back.
5|Awesome phone
5|Awesome phone
2|Hi.. I bought this because of the hype create and thought specs were good for the price. But then I have realized that I have made mistake by buying this mobile. There are pros but has more cons. Pros: 1. Nice design - slim and lightweight 2. Specs are good like 3GB RAM, 16GB storage,5 Inch display So On.. 3. Touch sensitivity is good. Cons: 1. Mobile data is not turning ON soon after WiFi is turned Off. Sometimes it is working fine but many times you have to restart to switch on mobile data. 2. Speaking phone is not working properly. When you toggle speaker phone On and Off MIC is not working properly. I have to disconnect call and call again. 3. Camera quality can be much better. I have used Samsung Note 2 earlier. I felt like the Note2 8MP camera quality was better than one plus X 13MP camera. 4. Google Now any screen is not working. Mic is not functioning when you turn on Google Now any screen. 5. Memory Card was not working but with last update it is working fine but it is difficult to move apps to memory card. 6. Headset is not part of the pack. I was surprised after charging 17K they were not able to provide headset. 7. Batter is not sufficient. I am normal mobile user, will not play games much but WiFi is turned on all the time. I am not getting one complete day. 8. Mobile is getting heated for normal use itself. 9. There are few minor drawbacks like gallery is not provided, when you drag down notification bar the settings are displayed which is irritating. Notification button is not of much use. There are more cons than pros which makes me to suggest better mobile.
4|This is a very nice phone for the price and very speedy on performance. Mild heating problems on and off while gaming or continuous YouTube watching.. Operating system is basic and you can add what you want.. Some software updates coming up slowly.. SD card isssue being solved.. So now you can move apps to SD card.. Andriod Marshmallow will be coming only in 2nd quarter 2016 (after april 2016 according to their forum blogs).. Camera is just ok for the casual snapper with good colour reproduction but ok details and the difference can be seen only on transferring the pictures to the computer or while expanding them.. No manual camera mode for now.. Coming soon in next update! Hope so according to their community adminstrator in Oneplus forums.. The music is really good with headphones and good music software.. Battery is ok only if you are a mild user and will last you more than a day.. If you keep your mobile screen all time in use, it will last for maximum 8hrs of continuous usage. Under heavy usage with games and video streaming will last 6hrs continuous.. Looped downloaded video lasted for 7and half to 8 hrs.. Overall a very stylish and slippery phone with user friendly performance.. Really good phone overall.. Definitely recommended for the style conscious average users (most of us are).. Kindly don't put any case or cover on this phone, it will steal its beauty.. But the glass in the back is prone to scratches, so I would recommend using the complete screen guard and cover from gadget shield, for any additional protection.. Any other queries I would like to hear from you guys in the comments and if you need any invites of OP X now have 4 and 2 invites for OP 2 mail me gajasaraj@yahoo.com... Have a great time..
1|Unnecessary hype product, Not worth the cost......Waste of money...Basic touch phone micromax has all the features that onyx has. Look wise super, sleek but slightly weight Features not that much great -Oxgen OS -Really Sucks, i really Don't understand why Oneplus chose this OS. even basic gallery option you have to download from playstore. For single Contact delete or Join you have to go to particular contact details and in that you have to go to edit options then you have to do it delete or join. if you want delete another contact you to come from top of the contact list to that particular alphabet and do the above. in multiple contact selection you won't view the numbers. Storage space Actually said -16GB -available 11.54GB(4.5 Gb for system) of which default Apps takes 2 GB-actual available is 9.54 GB. Battery drains like anything--if you use continuously it drains like 1% /30 second. if you play any basic games phone heats up llike hell. i really don't understand how this could happen. might be display takes up more of charge and discharge as heat. Hats off to Amazon for in a day delivery...star rate for delivery alone. for phone its really Zero.
5|Do It Support VoLte Band ? - newly Launching 4G Band In India?
1|DO YOU KNOW WHAT IS BULLS*** IF NO THEN BUY A ONE PLUS Device
5|Good value for the price Good screen resolution and speed
2|Phone is good in feature but music n photo gallery is not good
4|Good one. Sometimes slow in moving from phone to home screen.
5|Yes phone is very good and I am very happy to have bought this
5|one of the best features in such low cost, totally loved it :)
4|All are good but only concern is batery back up when net is on
4|Good Fone Hv some issues with slow motion video recording
5|Only one word to describe it "AWESOME". Go for it....
4|Very descent phone and nice product but sometimes it got hang.
5|Been working great! Have been able to do all I wanted and more
4|Very fast delivery. And the phone is awesome as expected.. ?
2|Battery is a issue , use with wifi or data then it drains fast
5|heres a oneplus x invite : IN20-E3A3-9568-0469 use it in 48hrs
5|This phone arrived yesterday awesome features truly satisfying
5|overall am happy with oneplus x. received the product on time.
5|Oneplus X is anytime batter than Oneplus One.......Great Phone
5|Fast delivery by Amazon n a decent phone at this price bracket
5|Superb phone...I have an invite.. Inbox me medasuhas@gmail.com
5|any want to oneplus x invited contact me 8082100855/9028406223
5|Anyone need one plus x invite. Mail me on pkhera2006@gmail.com
5|Pls contact for one plus x invite......ca.sheradjain@gmail.com
5|INB7-7C8A-B6C3-5EA5 claim it in 3 days enjoy it guys
3|I need a one+ invite plz whats me 9995069190 if you hav thanks
5|Phone is good. But it's black color is getting fade frequently
4|I have got invite contact me for invites Raghav@email.biz
5|Great mobile with hybrid technology and lots of customization.
3|Phone is awesome.. But the battery backup is the worst part..
5|It's a premium look mobile. Flexible to handle. Good at speed
4|Quick delivery.. Superb phone.. Need more info on accessories
4|excellent product protects the mobile from accidental damage.
5|Best phone in its price range Never hung till date
5|Awesome phone with great camera quality and performance......
3|Battery not good as expected and portrait icon is not working
5|Here is an Invite to purchase this phone. IN6E-673F-8985-BF74
5|Very nice phone back panel is glass which give its look great
5|Superb phone and superb service by Amazon! Totally impressed!
5|Invite INF1-E23F-47EB-6917 , use it if somebody need it
5|This phone is awesome.. Don't listen to crap.. Just go for it
5|The phone is just awesome. It is hard to find any fault.
5|In this price range anyone can't get more than this.. Amazing
5|Nothing like anything.. Best phone perfect value for money...
5|Nice phone... If anyone want invite code, call me 07053615760
4|I have an invite for oneplus x if any one requires contact me
5|invite avble only 1 mail me accessoriesworld28@gmail.com
5|Nice phone under 17K.... Every one like to have this phone...
4|everything else is good except battery as expected from specs
5|anyone need invite.. contact.. ayush.peswani91@gmail.com
5|I have an invite for oneplus x if u want whatsapp 9003745607
5|Go for it without thinking even if your budget is 2000 less .
5|Amazing 100 percent worth the money, investment in true sense
5|Owsome phone.... I want to buy urgently... Plz send me invite
4|I got invite to share, intersted can watsapp me at 9228792630
5|One Plus X is an absolute stunner in terms of build quality. Form Factor is brilliant, can be used with one hand .. which is rare for phones now a days. Metal body makes it look premium. Colours are punchy and vibrant on the 5" Amoled Screen OS Oxygen is neat/light/smooth, close to stock android ( which is a major plus ) Does not lag or heat what so ever. Device can definitely handle heavy gaming. Comes with an inbuilt RADIO Everything is awesome in BLACK.
5|The phone just feels really slim and stylish in hand . The cover they provided makes it look even better . I have a Oneplus 2 aswell , but the AMOLED on X is simply mind blowing . Size is just prefect , not too big nor too small . No USB type-C , THANK YOU! type-c is just annoying , I have to carry my op2 charger everywhere. If you want a sexy looking phone in your hand go for it. I wasn't really impressed by the looks in the pictures, but when I got mine I was just blown away by it's sexy looks.
5|Good phone to by for this price Satisfied with this one
1|Disappointed with battery life, I regret after buying this mobile. If you buy carry charger with you were ever you go.
5|IN6D-A56C-0477-ACF1 IN80-6DB9-35D8-F37AA INA9-A0CA-05C9-C290
4|Overall it was a good experience with Amazon n one plusx ...
3|Heating like a fry pan, when charging,calling and using wifi
2|Finally after 32 days my phones charger has stopped working.
3|A good phone but a bad thing is it needs an invite to buy it
3|OS is not upto the mark and some desired feature is missing.
5|Excellent phone. Go for it. Delivered before date.
3|Battery backup sucks and ' up like he'll while playing games
5|If you want it contact we poiuytrewqasdfghjkl20056@gmail.com
5|Awesome mobile I have one invite plz call watsaap 9609212121
4|Overall Good Phone.....But you can't move apps to SD Card :(
5|Invite giveaway! Invite code:-IN95-3590-555E-4E8E
4|if any one wants invite in 250INR whatsappp me on 782937921
5|It's an awesome phone. Was so happy to get it within 3 days.
5|Amazon too good..keep it up..nice phone enjoying now..Kool..
5|Awesome... Simply amazing... Enjoying using one plus x... :)
5|pls someone help me with an invite lovdapinder.gill@live.in
1|USSD code and balance deduction after call ending not showing with all indian mobile networks in OnePlus X with indian sim cards this is the huge problem many people are facing USSD is most important for all user's in india. data toggle button does not work properly and very confusing.back camera is not producing good images.it produces worst images in both good light and low light.when zooming images taken details are lost.so you will get for what you have paid.so please dont buy it.buy samsung or song instead.
3| the product i received has its cover over the box slightly opened and upper steel part of the sim tray is too loose.the rest of the piece is great.
5|Device is really good... Very handy & premium experience...
5|Amazing phone and amazing amazon for its service delivery..
3|Amazon service is amazing. But mobile is not upto the mark.
5|5 stars <3 no need to write long review. Simply awesome
5|very happy with the product. the service was very prompt..
4|Nice phone but only thing is they are not giving earphones.
1|My phone one speaker is not worked as on first date to till
5|excelent mobile compare to another mobiles and best featurs
5|Nice mid range smartphone. What do you expect in 17000 rs ?
5|Excellent phone. Both physically and functionaly beautiful.
5|Here is a free invite :D happy new year IN40-DA84-F5D3-0747
2|Two invites to share. See attached images for invite codes.
5|Having 3 OP-X invites.whatsapp me on 9930613152 if you want
5|One of the best feeling in the world...holding this phone..
5|Amazing product.. One of the best phones priced under 20k..
5|IN3C-855C-632D-4470 IN03-7490-2884-12CD INCD-600E-B646-4AE0
3|Speaker nt working properly, other thn tht its a good phone
5|have a one plus x invite for 100 bucks. expiring in 23 hrs.
5|One invite left. Needy one contact to sandy16.dr@gmail.com
5|I have an invite to share. Contact at grabshubham@gmail.com
4|cn nyone teme is dr scrtch guard olredy on phone by company
4|I need an invite for One Plus X surendras796@gmail.com
5|Anybody in need of OPX do ping me on chaitanya825@gmail.com
5|This is a wonderful phone ..you get more than wat u pay.if u have an invite go for it u won't regret it
5|Awsome phone
5|FANTABULOUS*
4|101% satisfied with built quality, and decent performance.
4|Battery back up is not that much expected Looks smart
2|One plus x don't have gallery and camera has single flash
4|I love this phone..its quite decent and looks are awesome.
5|very nice phone, price is also low, and performance is top
5|Excellent delivery system and product as per specification
4|One plus one in a new small body... Though a good phone...
4|hey i have an invite anyone may use it IN6B-AE13-D3BD-5195
4|Soooooo nice mobile & amazon delivery thankssss allll.....
4|Good phone. The battery life is also good lasts 8-10 hours
4|INED-41D4-7777-D9C2 one plus x invite claim it in one day.
5|One plus x invite IN50-EAA1-CF18-CA03 Enjoy this beauty..
4|A very good phone with rich hardware and software support.
5|INVITE AVAILABLE for interested buyers. call on 8792307657
4|Value for Money... and Best smartphone with this price tag
5|If u want to buy one plus x invite Watsapp@8800949416
5|Absolutely a Rockstar. Amazing Device. Thank u one plus :)
4|Excellent mobile , camera quality superb and good product
5|Contact for an invite.. Mail me at rajanand.2221@gmail.com
5|Last invite left please Whatsapp-9762589473 only for Rs200
4|Hurry..contact for invite..8989138622(whats app number)...
5|Aweee...better looking than I phone ...best in price range
5|This phone is awesome. I am using it from past 1 week. Till now I did not face any heating issues. Processor is very fast. Even after using multiple apps simultaneously speed is very fast . Touch is very smooth. As i read the comments from many users that it is not detecting memory cards .With this phone I am using SanDisk Ultra MicroSDHC 32GB. This phone is reading memory card and In File Maanger I can see memory card. Over all this phone is very good in 17k with all the features.
1|Hi, The phone has serious technical issues. from the time i have stating using the phone which is 7 days from today i am facing serious problems. i am not bale to receive any calls as most of the time the people who are calling get an not reachable update where as i am using an airtel sim and reachablity is maximum. also i never faced this issue with my earlier phones. every now and then there is a call drop problem. it takes close to 10 seconds connecting to any call and most of the time it does not even connect. it is one of the worst phone i have come accross and upon checking i have got a feedback that all one plus series have such problems. paying 17000 for this low quaity phone has been worst experience and waste of money. i highle suggest please do not purchase this phone. also the camera quality isnt any gud at all.
5|Lovely phone. Amazing experience. Superfast. Enjoying it.
1|Heating issue on the first day itself and still continues
5|Great phone..... Thanks amazon for a quick delivery!
4|Push notifications unavailable, rest all features amazing
5|Vry good phone I think in a good range (price) best phone
5|One of the best phone I will suggest for low budget phone
5|It's a stylish looking. Awesome mobile. Great performance
4|Phone is good but better is not lasting more than 1 days.
4|As usual, Amazon service is amazing. Mobile is good.
5|OnePlusX its a good smartphone to use and very much speed
4|Excellent phone in such a price band. Awesome looks.
5|Best phone under 20k. Even superior to one plus one.
5|Value for money.. Good phone.. Superb Dislpay and camera.
4|Invite code valid upto7 December IN01-A0C9-78BE-590B
3|inbox me for invite... Have 3 invites valid for 2 days...
5|Claim and use it with in 12hrs.. IN35-AD4E-E8D9-CE42
2|Not a value of money, camera quality on zoom is too bad.
3|it is good but some hang problem and heating problem also
4|Very attractive phone with nice specs at affordable price
5|super phone ...super price ...super smooth ...super style
5|the best phone at the price range !!! IND6-29CE-C0BE-CEE7
4|Overall had a good experience with the order and product.
5|can u pls share your invite to mailme.prakash18@gmail.com
5|Amazing resolution, superb camera and love the oxygen os.
5|Got an invite... Selling for ?500.... Contact :9986520134
5|Truly a masterpiece, much better experience than iPhone.
5|One of the best mobile phones at a reasonable price tag.
5|Perfect phone within the price range.....thanks amazon!!
4|Good product but the expected time of delivery was late.
5|Front cam is superb, looking very slim, 17k is worth....
4|It would have been better if it included headphones too.
5|Have invites.if anyone needs mail to ravihefty@gmail.com
5|Excellent product and the phone arrived in just one day!
5|all fyn expect heating issue while using continious wifi
5|OnePlus X (Onyx, 16GB) - Invite Only
5|One Plus X is the best phone in the range of 15k to 20k.
4|Nice desgin not look like a 17k phone good work one plus
5|Super Fast delivery by Aamzon! and the phone is awesome.
5|To get an invite email me to suraj_pratap.singh@yahoo.in
4|Bought the phone...little disappointed with the camera?
5|Any body want invite just mail me on sajidmd37@gmail.com
5|You get what u pay for... Best in class.... Premium feel
5|mobile awesome very sleek & slim hand one in best price.
5|awesome but price is little bit higher compare to others
4|Amazing phone! Has everything u need as a daily driver
3|Good
2|Poor battery, no preview of prepaid balance after call, no keypad light , no preview of data balance.
5|Excellent Mobile with awesome specifications and design
5|awesome phone, superb fast with high touch sensitivity.
5|An amazing phone, fantastic value for money. No regrets
5|any one need a invite contact,, 8098375937, 5 days only
4|Excellent mobile phone but,there no headset in the box.
3|Battery performance is poor.front camera is average too
2|Battery darning very fast, call summary is not showing.
4|Completely satisfied with the performance of one plus x
2|Too much signal problem in phone and cant see ussd code
4|Nice mobile. Good screen. But still OS needs refinement
5|I had an invite contact my email nagcivil1994@gmail.com
5|anybody want invite contact at rathoreadesh24@gmail.com
4|Not bad. But not that much features exist as one plus 1
5|Here's a free invite... Enjoy. IN5F-75CA-40F6-464A
5|in46-b691-2d31-9c0f Use this invitation for new x.
5|For invite contact 7819023777 Valid for 24hrs only
5|I need invite, mail me on ashish.jani123@gmail.com
5|Stunning.... Might not be a flagship killer but this time the focus is on aesthetics, usability and camera. Unlike stuffing high end specs without much visible improvement from end user perspective, oneplus this time has focused on creating a premium phone with specs that are not top of the line but are sufficient enough to perform any task while shifting focus to making one of the most visually appealing phones in the market. Two-thumbs up!!!
4|Love It !!!
5|It's awsome
5|Amazing phone with very high speed and screen quality.
4|The product is very nice and there is no complication.
3|Its display is good but Software is not user friendly.
4|It's really nice phone. I am very happy and satisfied.
5|It's amazing phone with a small price . Worth buying .
5|Amazing mobile at Amazon's Platform, very good mobile.
4|Great Smartphone though Battery life is not that good.
3|Very nice phone use this i love this phone hope you to
4|One Plus X is awesome, but the battery drains out fast
5|Excellent mobile. Shipping is lightening fast as usual
4|Amazing for the price Wish Dual Sim + Memory Card
4|Fully satisfied... Just the style and features i need.
3|Good phone but little heat problem and battery problem
3|Good phone at this price range... No complaints so far
5|One of best I've used in 2015. Best bang for the buck.
5|Good budget phone tested for 1 month all working fine
5|Nice phone. But if screen size 5.5 then it will good.
3|Heating Problem while playing game and charging phone.
5|very nice look i buy today , superb futures
5|Anybody requiring an invite, just message @9810924566
5|Any body want invites mail me @ sivaram.bala@gmail.com
4|a classic phone wid great features. nice look and feel
5|IN9B-C177-5537-69E1 INE8-3F6F-5821-DD4B FREE FREE FREE
5|Free invite Code:- IN59-D4D7-506A-7C8E Enjoy
5|wow look and great phone dint find any difficulty yet.
5|if anyone need an extra invite , watsapp me 9158282541
5|I have invite.. To buy contact moneybro@yahoo.com
5|I have an invite to share, mail me at qshr67@gmail.com
5|I loved it in first time and great thanks to amazon.in
1|The phone is awesome. However the service at Amazon was absolutely worst. My phone is having issues with the charger (to be specific the adapter of the charger). I contacted Amazon and they insisted to me that I change the entire package and not only the charger. I repeatedly told them that I changed my sim card to micro because of this new phone and it is very difficult for me to deal without a phone for next two-three days (as my sim had changed and I would not be able to use my previous phone). Amazon was adamant and did not bother to solve my problem. Now I have to live with this phone which can only be charged using a computer. Very inconvenient. Really poor service from Amazon and from One Plus for providing a faulty charger.
2|Phone problems 1. There is some performance issue with processor. 2. Some lag while playing games. 3. Memory card is not properly supported with the phone. 4. Battery performance is very poor. 5.no gallery in the phone. 6. Camera is not upto the level. 7. You can use as dual sim phone or single sim with memory card. 8. It has not gone through propper quality test. 9.camera flash not good enough while taking photos. 10. Underdamped gpu as well as the processor 11. Heating issue is there. While playing games. 12. Overall design is good, but not the quality of the product. 13. Minimum inbuild application they provided which exclude the gallery and the sound equalizer. 14. Phone consume more time to install application software
4|All things are better .only bettry performance is law
5|Very good.. But prefer IPhone 5s 16gb over one plus x
5|Had a network glitch, but got fixed by an OTA update.
1|Charger not working after 7 days. Worst experience.
5|Value for money. Amazing looks and great performance.
5|Met my expectations.. Good looking, sleek and stylish
4|Another one plus successor phone..from the company...
4|Sleek, handy, responsive and sufficient screen space.
2|My phone having heating problem.Speaker is not proper
5|It's real good,I dint find any difference than iphone
5|Really good product but returned it as wanted Iphone.
5|It's a very good phone and very much within budget...
5|Sexiest phone in the world, if using without any case
4|Three Invites for share, Watsapp on 9880700080 !!!!
5|I bought it after a long writing. But now I am happy.
4|https://invites.oneplus.net/claim/INEC-52E7-6AF0-C2CD
3|What service yaar device is very heating after 4-days
4|Anyone need an invite email me mazhar4uzain@gmail.com
5|Email me to get an invite suraj_pratap.singh@yahoo.in
5|Mobile is wonderful and it is awesome at this price
5|Need a invite plz give me ritviksss157@gmail.com
4|Invite for sale Ping me at harsha2134@gmail.com
5|device is good with looks also and operating too....
5|Probably the best looking phone with 5 inch display.
5|handset working smoothly. just loving the oneplus x.
5|Very comfortable to use and handy. Almost intuitive.
3|Fantastic phone but why only one speaker is working?
5|Great to onl 1 problem .I did not receive earphones.
5|The phone is really great, optimum for its price !!!
1|We don't need ur f****** invite THIS IS FOR ONE PLUS
4|Good phone as per price but consist of some lags....
4|Looks like a nice phone for the given price segment.
5|Best phone under 20k Specifications are awesome
5|Very good but phone tends to heat ? during charging
4|A great phone at such a price.. Highly recommended..
4|Great phone at this price range. very nice features.
5|Great phone with awsum configuration at minimal cost
5|IN91-DFF8-3175-1250 claim within 48 hours..enjoy??
4|Awsome phone. With new update OPX is lightening fast
5|Very good phone with premium look and good camera...
4|Value for money, u cannot transfer files to sd card
4|Phone is good, amazon delivered the phone in 3 days,
5|Awesome performance and really fast delivery service
5|Awesome phone. It's looks and performace are amazing
5|Which phone should i prefer samsung a5 or one plus x
4|very awesome nd useful phone , i simply liked it...
3|Some time it's hanged when i am unlock the phone...
5|Apart from few software bugs, its a very good phone
5|Great product for the price tag. Very premium feel.
2|Phone goes on mute during call. Very serious issue.
5|The phone is awesome but so reflective and slippery
5|Amazing touch quality. Love the phone.thanks amazon
5|Super phone for the price.. Great looks and specs..
5|Great phone to buy in the range of 17k worth buy...
4|i got this mobile but usb charger is not working...
4|Works better than a Lot of phones double the price.
3|Problem calling from sim 1 but is taking from sim 2
5|its awesome and beautiful its relay good i love it.
4|anyone needs invite u can use - IND9-77CB-95D2-F881
5|Want a invite. souramyaswain88@gmail.com
5|I take back my previous review. Excellent product.
1|Need camera upgrade
5|Great phone, amazing finish. Total value for money!
5|Need a invite plz help me.. my watsap no 9866220880
5|Invite for X. Only 10 min left in9b-b9b9-b573-c348
2|Facing heating issue with my oneplus x. Need help.
3|Camera is very bad..Price is extremely strongly...
5|Delivery was very prompt. The gadget is excellent.
5|No Defect.... 100% Satisfaction. Working Smoothly.
5|It was the as expected. Awesome product. Thank you
5|Awesome Phone and nice services provided by amazon
5|I am use this phone but Memory card is not support
5|Very good mobile, at par with my expectations....
4|Battery back & due to 3 GB RAM its very fast also.
4|The delivery was on time,must buy phone under 20k.
5|Amazing specs and easy to use. Loved it One Plus.
5|One plus two Invite available contact @ 9717029184
5|Good. Thanks Amazon for providing value product's.
5|very nice product and superb delivery . keep it up
5|Awesome product and deliver on mention time frame.
4|Cellphone is overall good but camera is quite good
3|Got an invite for one plus x.. Contact 8866076298
3|Message me to get the invite....I have an invite.
4|in03-c1d0-78bb-a13e You are welcome.. Use it soon
5|OnePlus X (Onyx) - Invite Only
4|Have an invite for this phone, this phone is cool
5|Awesome phone compare to others brands n good look
3|What is the return policy for it,,, if not like it
3|I have a invite if u want watsapp me in 9040270810
1|The phone I have received is the worst piece, I must say. OnePlus X cheats by writing 3gb RAM, it is slower then Nokia Symbian Phones. Every time I try to switch application it hangs a lot. I tried to return this phone but wow their policy is to return in 10days and my eligible date to return was 2nd Jan and I was late by 2 days. WTF. I feel like to throw this phone.
3|Kind of ok
5|Very super
5|Good phone
5|INC0-7C22-C3F9-4C40 Nov 17th 3days valid Use invite and go for it
1|Pros....... No Doubt Phone is awesome In Looks, Processing, Very Good Brightness in Sunlight... I haven't Faced any Heating issues... (Common If you play asphalt or More big games for an 2-3 hours then definitely every phone will get heated...) Camera Is good but Its camera Software is not Good... I think that's why Pics are not very Clear and Sharp... OTG Works Perfectly... Antutu Beanchmark Rating is Nearly 44000... Cons...... I found, LED display of this phone is not good in colour saturation (White is more white and black is more black...) Viewing Angles are good but Not impressive... Samsung A5's S-AMOLED display has better viewing angles and Colour Saturations than this... SD card works for only Images, Videos, Music... One Plus X has No moving apps to SD card Support... You get only 11 gb to use and if apps are in internal memory then whats the use of this high end processing... At least internal memory should be 32 gb... Don't know This might fix in their next update... Conclusion...It completely depend on your Use, If user wants more memory to move apps then don't go for this (at least wait till this issue will get fixed....)
1|Only one sim and one memory card use on one time
4|Why its doesnt support gujarati.... Not good
5|Very beautiful phone. A piece of art. Affordable.
5|Super Phone liked it very much worth going for it
5|Great Build Quality, Feels better than Iphone 5s.
5|Good till now. Identified bit lag. Please fix it.
5|Awesome product .. Delivery was the very next day
5|Awesome mobile. Never expected, works smoothly: )
5|Awesome package by Amazon and great phone for 17k
3|Rich look with poor camera and fast battery drain
3|Is overall good ... My accepting This budget
5|Handy Design with premium looks.Good performance.
5|INAC-75EC-8623-F13A Have an invite for one plus x
3|OK OK phone, not as great as it is hyped up to be
4|Overall a super experience but battery pack up :(
4|Any one want invite mail. Me @wadsnavin@gmail.com
5|Best mobile for entry level. Very good and cheap.
5|inf6-e53e-8158-c8fc - valid for next 10 mins only
5|INVITE AVAILABLE !!! its valid !!! for ONEPLUS X.
4|Anyone need invite punch me ajith.basil@gmail.com
5|Does it support a finger print detection function
5|I have invite ....anyone want ..msg me 9904534475
5|Nice phone. Mobile is so beautiful to see.Love it
5|Call on 9830680888 for invite! 1 left. Price 1000
5|Awsome phone and amazing fast delivery by Amazon.
5|Got the mobile same day without any extra charge.
5|Contact me for invites. Sanjayarora4321@gmail.com
1|Rear camera sucks . Zoom and you will understand. Heats up like an oven! Lags and Crashes when playing high def games plastic back case ruins the look Battery drain is unbearable. I am returning this product. Thank You Amazon for giving me back my money. Hopefully you will refund in a few days and am back to my moto g 1st gen. Honestly its still better when you see the big picture
1|I have several problems with One+X model, I recently purchased from Amazon. Most troublesome issue is no way to change ring volume. Actually ring volem is nil, zero, total silence. I have never heard my phone ringing nor vibrating. I have missed a number of important urgent calls. No method to chabge ring volume settings. I have set the phone to vibrate upon incoming calls. But no use. Phone will not vibrate. Changing and setting diffrent ring tones does no effect. I cannot set my own music as ringtone. Speaker phone works during telephone conversation. Video and audio can be played. Key clicks are audiable. I have downloaded vibrator apps and they are working. I think ring-audio files are missing. i have attached screenshot of sounds-settings. Please correct and restore this silly simple most essential feature of phone. Or else I will forced to return this lovely product of yours.
5|INA1-F3E4-0353-0E0C. Invite for one plus x. If anyone needs it just use it..
5|Best phone in this price. Please use for buy this invite.IN81-1E4C-7897-3C4A
3|Packet doesn't contain USB charger and earphone.
2|We have better phone with better price in market
3|The mobile is good but not upto my expectation..
5|Great mobile & amazing spec and superb look
5|satisfied. Camera Quality is not as per standard
5|Really a very good phone.. Happy with the deal..
4|If u need an invite contact tahajamal8@gmail.com
4|Nice look & feel slim body over all nice one....
2|Not as expected performance , unworthy for money
5|Great Phone Great Features Great Price
5|Add the others languages. Otherwise excellent...
5|Awesome phone with all latest tech nd best price
5|The charger with the mobile phone is not working
5|http://onepl.us/IN34-B132-90D2-FA6F #NeverSettle
3|mobile is good, but it took 6 days for delivery.
5|Best of the best cell ever I have used .........
5|The product is worth 17k. It is an amazing phone
5|Awesome features. Excellent delivery by Amazon..
5|INAD-6A8C-1141-E895...claim within 3 days...njoy
5|contact for free invite one plus x or one plus 2
5|I have been invite one plus x call me 9843873265
4|Delivery was late, but the product is excellent.
5|Whatsapp me on 7869021343 for One Plus X Invites
5|love it but amazon don't deliver to my pincode..
5|awsome mobile with great features in great price
5|Superb phone i had ever seen , coming to the design part it is very mush similar to iphone 5s and the glassy finish is an addon Front cam is awesome , back is too good I had done the battery test and got positive results . with continuous non stop usage backup lasts for complete day what else do you need To summarise this is the perfect handy phone U can blindly go with it...
1|I expect better one plus x and i want white one
5|An Awesome phone excellent delivery from Amazon
4|Nice phone.....iam satisfied with the phone....
5|As usual delivery is on time. Product is superb
5|Great phone with solid built n fast processor..
4|excellent mobile but color is too contrast
3|Charging drains fast and issues like ussd codes
5|Best budget phone ever with great piece of work
4|Yes it reached the expectations for some extent
5|Loving the phone. All well after soft upgrades.
1|Very bad phone . Unable to make nd receive call
4|System lags from time to time. No other issues.
4|Pretty neat. As oneplus's promise. Never settle
5|in17-a039-2301-4ec1 invite valid for 2days guys
4|Buzz for free invite at vidhi484@gmail.com
4|in10-c0e0-71ec-0dfe Invite for OP X.
3|Excellent phone but there was delay in delivery
5|Awesome mobile one plus x??.Thanks for Amazon
5|contact me for invite 8880132893, WhatsApp only
5|If any one need invite whatsapp me @ 8818934406
5|Anyone want a free invite comment within a day.
5|Nice phone within a budgeted limit of Rs.20k...
4|Need invite WhatsApp me 8105449128 Just for 250
5|Value for Money is an Understatement. Must Buy.
5|Awesome Mobile. I waited and finally purchased.
4|Hey One plus X is really superb.... its handy and got good looks.. i have used this for 3 days now.. camera is good and battery life is also pretty gud with mixed usage.. performance is worth for the money. i have observed few things like there is no Gallery and Flash camera in beauty , HDR Mode . overall Good Phone .. anyone can go for IT...XXXX
2|Just unboxed and turned on the phone. Shocking a green dot on the screen
5|Great phone at this price range. The only phone that could be better in this range is Meizu MX5 Pros 1. Good build 2. Gorilla glass on both sides 3. Hardware specs 4. Screenguard and Silicon case included Cons 1. Average cameras (front and rear) 2. Average battery life 3. Invite system 4. Not USB Type C charger
1|Pros Amoled display very good, sound clarity good and oneplus slider Cons Call clarity very bad camera software has many bugs. Photos are very bad in low light , heating rapidly after few games ,slippery and battery is worst in class goes rapidly down If you want more go for oneplus 2 oneplus x is the worst from oneplus
2|This phone is Okay. But battery drains faster than other android Phone.
3|Cant we use both sim cards with SD at a time ?
3|Simply heating n hanging. Look n feel is good.
4|Good device Not happy with support.
5|Great Design....Best specifications by Oneplus
3|Good mobile but charger data cable not working
5|Great buy in this range. Quality product.
5|Suprb mobile just fell in love with it.... '''
5|Nice phone I like it I impress with it's looks
3|not sooooo wow factors,,,, catchy look dats it
5|Absolutely kick ass phone at this price point!
3|Soft keys are with light or without light??~~
5|Excellent service, very satisfied with product
3|Not expected from one plus these kind of phone
5|For invites mail me greenheartsuresh@gmail.com
4|Hey anyone intrested let me know@+919642323750
2|Second sim or memory card slot is not working.
5|Fast delivery and excellent device. Go for it.
5|Completely Satisfied with delivery and product
5|Any one want invite than whatup me @9740402097
5|Good phone, hope the SD card bug is fixed soon
5|Beautiful looks, feel premium while holding :)
5|Looks great,very light and awesome performance
4|Call or WhatsApp me on 9022228717 for invites.
5|I want this mobile but I don't have any invite
5|Hope it turnup good. Waiting for my one plus x
4|Best cell
5|Excellent
2|barring design n looks this phone has nothing new to offer. using it from 1 month. Pro: design sexy looks Cons : below avg battery. 4 hour screen on time Camers sux.. like a desi brand. pics in Low Light turns to be blurry. my recommendation go for Moto G turbo..rather than ths s***. this ph is totally based on hype..created by mkbhd...
2|I received oneplus x on 13 November staring my phone little bit heating bt nw it's heating more in normal uses of any application like Facebook, Twitter and so on... I can able to talk in phone bcz m can able put this near my ear... No help for oneplus team also... Even m update its software also.. Bt there is no change in heating...
3|Overall a good phone except for some features
5|Good performance and worth every penny spent!
3|gets heated after playing any game for 10 min
5|Lightning fast delivery. Product as expected.
5|One Plus X. One best Mobile I ever Used...!!!
5|Nice response , its good to opt for this guys
5|Happy with the phone that's all I have to say
5|Mobile looking awesome. Over all Nice Mobile.
5|Satisfied more than expectations..... Awesome
5|Value for money.much better than mi4 and mi4i
5|camera is awesome superfast performance.
5|A well designed sleek and powerful handset...
5|amazon serives is to slow but this phone good
4|Is this android marshmallow upgradable phone?
5|Excellent look & amazing performance........
4|Steal your brand new ONE PLUS X INVITE @ FREE
5|amazing look and iphone like touch, loved it,
3|camera OK... WiFi speed is slow in this phone
4|Great purchase but the charger is not working
5|want Invite(s) contact krishnakpasi@gmail.com
5|one word for this amazing device..... AWESOME
5|If u need an invite, whatsapp me @9533750474.
5|Love this phone amazing one in less price!!!!
5|Amazing phone.But not as good as Oneplus Two!
5|Excellent one gt a dream mobile thnx oneplusx
5|Does.any body have a invite.for.oneplus X ???
5|Good Speed, Nice Camera, Pre-Installed Screen Guard, and Back Cover
4|nice phone in this range. Probably the best.
5|Good quality product. Fast service by Amazon
3|Voice quality is not good... Very low volume
5|good phone.. but heats a litle not very much
4|When its coming India white champagne colour
5|Excellent Handset and sexy look of the phone
5|AWESOME! Another great product from OnePlus!
5|True to all the Promises, the OP X delivers.
5|It is very good. Iam really happy to have it
5|I love to use this smart phone. Very nice...
5|Need an invite? Whatsapp me. +918939134326
4|Good one, battery drains in 4g connectivity.
4|Yeah good one was waiting for, ceramic one
4|Got in it need it for 500 Rs call 7439144988
5|IN8F-3B53-868C-E193 SEND ME A THANK YOU
5|Awesome looks, nice camera,average battery..
2|not up to mark,heat up while using internet.
5|too good smarphone in chep rate hurry to buy
5|IN37-F764-A7B2-0421 IN06-1D3D-B400-5AE5
4|Good in cpu, amoled, weight,,,,,.. Any other
5|Awesome. Excellent. Fantastic. Mind blowing.
3|Screen gaurd is provided with box our not?
5|Awesome so far! Been a month no lags at all
5|Overall good product available at this cost
5|Great phone... in this range... loved it.
2|It's alright for the price . not that great
5|So far liked it.. Few features are too good
5|Service is awsom.....!!! I m setisfied...!!
5|The most Beautiful mobile. Mini powerhouse.
5|Superb phone and awesome delivery by amazon
4|Just few heating issues but worth the price
4|Excellent build quality and value for money
4|It's good one but need more battery power..
5|It's nice but needs more apps pre installed
2|It hangs a lot, camera is below expectation
5|Great Experience very fast processing time.
5|Delivered on time. 8mp front cam is awesome
5|super prompt delivery and best phone ever !
5|Every feature at this price is commendable.
5|Great Device, Totally Value for money.
5|5 Stars.. Happy with the product so faar...
5|Good looking and good futures in class 17k.
5|This is what you all want under 17000/- INR
5|Very nice product, very very fast delivery.
5|Superb phone and superb amazon delivery..!!
5|I need an Invite plzzz help me any one
5|I m became the fan of oneplus x. Grt phone.
5|Quick delivery.. Very happy with my new opx
5|Great stuff. Kudos to OnePlus Team. They are beating the s*** out of the likes of Samsungs and Apples. Build Quality - Awesome, Looks - Ultra Awesome, Battery life - Not yet checked, Packaging and inside items - Awesome, Charger and Cable - Superb, Protective Cover - Cool. Sim PIN - Cool, Only Downside - Lack of earphone.
5|Looks great / Amazing display / smooth UI.
4|Not bad gud performance, under the budget.
2|its display was misbehaving after 10 days.
4|Excellent features and value to the money!
5|Awesome handset... Love it each day I use!
5|Excellent phone, best price guys go for it
5|Everything in place as committed by amazon
4|Nice phone with all the latest requirement
5|It's an amazing phone with great features.
4|SD card feature literally Rips the joy out
1|not of a good quality as was supposed to b
5|I didn't get ear phones along with mobile?
3|Battery n camera too bad... Screen is good
5|I didn't get ear phones along with mobile?
4|Good product. Very fast. Happy to have it.
4|Awesome build quality in an amazing price.
3|Camara flash is not coming, heating issue.
2|Not given any accessories such as earphone
5|Top notch phone at reasonable price point.
5|Nothing to compare with Amazon.. I love it
5|This is the Best Mobile one can get.... :)
5|Super mobile with excellent built quality.
5|This looks more like a enlarged Apple 4S !
5|Good one
5|Nice one
4|Gud looking it beter than branded mobiles
3|Battery life is not that good. It's okay.
5|Gud product satisfied with Amazon too ..!
4|facing some lags while network selection.
5|You can't buy a more beautiful thing here, you'll fall in love with it. The way it looks and works, just adorable.
5|awesome phone and great service by amazon
5|nice product only battery life is short..
4|Nice phone with good looks and display :)
5|Its too good, but battery is not that par
5|Great phone, complete value for money!!!
5|Received well in time....great experience
4|Stylish, Rugged and value for money phone
5|Anyone want invite code u can use this...
5|good stylish worth for money i have spend
5|very good phone but can be improved a bit
4|Nice product with very good configuration
4|Amazing Phone.... Worth Every Penny... :)
4|Good looking, working very smart and fast
5|Nice premium phone in this price bracket.
3|Phone is good but where's the earphone???
5|Awesome delivery.super phone worth buying
3|Need invite very urgent.. Anybody there??
5|U can't find a better buy......... Period
3|PHONE IS BEING OVER HEATED WHILE BROWSING
5|Just go for it best in this price segment
4|Value of money. Good phone at this cost!
5|I've got an invite whatsapp me 9158785873
5|anyone use the invite INE1-12ED-4C02-F298
3|negative:Camera, No head phones, battery,
5|INA1-2C2A-3BDF-960E claim within two days
5|Excellent service. N original products...
5|Awesome phone can't live it any less.....
5|Love it! OnePlus...you rock! ??????
5|One of the best Phone in this price range
5|Got what I'm looking for! Looks awesome and handy. Not seems to be bigger to hold! Feels so good to operate! Will review more after using it. At present even screen cover is not removed as no accessories yet to protect the screen, So as of now waiting for accessories to protect it,
5|The best phone in its price range. 16Gb of inbuilt memory should be sufficient provided the external memory slot. Battery backup is awesome even on 4G network. Battery drains only if you network issues. Rest I found the phone as per specifications. Front camera is the best for selfie addicts.
1|SD card doesn't get detected nor you can move apps to it.
3|Ashok1978.ak71@gmail.com 8197350491
4|Yes oneplus X invite meet my expectation
4|any one having free invites....plz share
5|Amazing Design & Outstanding Performance
5|Excellent phone looks like iPhone good
5|awsme phone with all necessary features.
1|The charger of the phone is not working.
5|good product and good look..... liked it
5|Excellent piece of hardware and software
2|Not that great but just as usual mobile.
5|Must buy very good one totally satisfied
4|More than Worth buying phone ..very good
3|USSD service not working on airtel sim .
5|The best phone!! A beast in this range!
5|I like the product and working very well
5|It's really a great experience using OPX
5|Awesome . Excellent Service from Amazon
5|Phone is brand new and in good condition
1|Don't buy. Customer service is very bad.
5|very good phone with this price. Awesome
5|Amazing mobile.... Go for it blindly....
5|IN08-9EC2-6F82-0E23 Claim it it 3 days!
4|You are on list but no any mail and call
5|IN7E-9C6F-0A89-0090, INC7-EA01-46CD-1745
5|Good design and slim light weight mobile
5|its amazing and i received that in-time.
5|Amazing and the delivery was super fast.
5|No heating problem Everything is good.
4|camera quality is very poor,rest is good
5|Great VFM for the quality it provides...
5|Best in looks and beast in performance !
5|Awesome phone ? One day delivery?
5|This phone is unbelievable for the price
5|IN77-0BAF-BE83-7534....USE ITS SOON GUYS
5|one plus x is one of the best cell phone
5|Amazing product and powerful performance
1|Product specs are very good, but (Oxygen) software is just novice type. Doesn't seem to be a smart phone. Even simple copy paste is difficult task with its software. Can't copy few lines / words from a SMS. Can't send SMS to a contact in dailed history. Screen gestures are also just for name only 4 functions that too can't be customized. Even 5K mobiles that too from generic brands have much better software. such a rigid software. Software even doesn't show how much RAM is available. Alone phone specs can't do anything. Absolutely NOT worth its price, didn't like the phone.
4|Does anybody want oneplus x invite contact me:8333092475
5|If anyone need an invite use this. INF2-4212-7157-1AB3
1|when i opened the product,i felt excited that the phone was sleek and slim.But the phone is getting heated up while browsing for 10 min or playing the games for 5 min and you cant use it for calling because it is hot at the ear piece while browsing or playing games and you have to wait for it to cool down.So i returned the phone and amazon is excellent as they have returned my money within 2days.
4|Received the package in good condition.
5|Awesome. Got my item at specified date.
5|I loved it .!! Awesome gadget ;) <3
5|Good product and even better delivery.
4|Awesome phone....worked out as expected
5|amazing phone Well worth the money
5|One of the best phone.... Thanks Amazon
4|battery performance need to be improved
5|This is an amazing phone in good price.
4|Very stylish phone and worth for money.
5|Wow just a masterpiece...simply awesome
4|Overall a good phone at its price point
5|this mobill is good and iam useging now
5|Its very gud and I like it alotttt...!!
3|Battery is not meeting its expectation.
5|I have invite. IN51-5077-9DEF-11FE
4|Nice looking Gud service by amazon
4|here's a invite IN4D-295D-EF6C-44C5. :)
5|Best smartphone for this price.. Beauty
3|IND8-BC1A-816F-157D Enjoy !!
4|IND2-EC37-B5F3-5D06 IN1F-1A8E-66C2-6C7A
5|Brilliant phone. Worth the penny spent.
5|Super quick delivery....Loved d phone..
5|This fon also great like one plus two.
5|Awesome phone.. Can't express in words
4|One plus x is good except from camera.
5|As per Expectations & Past Reveiws ...
5|Excellent phone but better is very bad
5|Good pon good quality good performance
4|The phone did not come with a headset.
5|Excellent .camera quality is excellent 3gb ram & processor speed is good. Overall everything is good
5|I got it in right time without damage,
5|Nice phone......delivered as described
5|Simply awesome Smoothe and superb
5|One of Best Phone To use at the moment
4|good one.. but need to improve battery
5|Nice phone. sleek and stylish looking.
5|Value for money. Love the front camera
5|IN15-B8E7-B12B-435F claim in 2 days..
5|Product arrived on time n working good
4|Good handset looks great and every one
5|no 1 mobile...looking..working...smart
5|Its a nice phone with good spec.......
5|A good phone for the price. Thumbs up!
3|Phone is good but Wifi was not working
5|For invite mail pranavcool61@gmail.com
1|Dear users, I've used this oneplus x for 25days.. Phone camera quality is very very bad, when the picture is zoomed it looks worst. Faced many lag issues during frequent usage. Only 2 positives are display & build quality.. CAN'T RECOMMEND THIS PHONE!!
5|the phone is awesome, glassy and looks like iPhone. they provide screen protector and panel in the box. My expected delivery date was 11th November 2015, but I got it on next day itself. Overall it's great. No cons. Super Diwali gift.
1|Phone heated up like a fireball in 3min of charging. Unplugged it . Picked it up body gave shock. No user manual with it. Booklet encl just talks about safety. Phone is a heavy piece of metal. Not so goodlookin in real life. Advertisement is a cad miracle. Not real.
5|Love it
5|Awesome
5|Gud one
1|Why you not stop an invite system....
4|Good Mobile With Worst Battery Backup
5|Superb phone..but there is no gallery
5|Perfect for the price only ROM sucks.
5|Such a nice and beautiful phone .....
5|one of the best phone at that price ?
5|Handy no doubt....good as of now.....
5|It's awesome phone below 20k category
2|A good phone, however not up to mark.
5|really a beautiful and powerful phone
5|Awesome phone it excels in everything
5|superb mobile nice build quality
4|Great Phone with a great front Camera
5|Good phone but needs a better Battery
5|best phone for low & mid range users.
5|Excellent phone. Bang for your bucks!
5|Perfect supereb ....stop using note 2
3|Battery back up low....camera is good
5|Value for Money and works very well!!
3|No ear phone in this phone y but good
5|It's awesome phone, worth buying it.
2|Both front n back camera was not good
5|Best phone. Loved every aspect of it.
4|Invite here- IN79-BD8A-49A0-027B
5|Great Phone at an affordable price !!
5|The best phone in this price category
5|a power-packed phone with great looks
5|The best low budget smart Phone......
5|Amazing simply amazing. .. go for it
4|Will cdma SIM card work in one plus x
1|it heats a lot, camera didn't worked after a day of purchase, i lost my 1500 for the insurance even, don't blv on the fake comments of the people, i had used many phones but this one was really not good. we can say looks are good but phone quality is not so good.
5|After ten days of usage I'm in love with this phone. Looks premium.. Rear camera and front camera is excellent.. Has led notification.. Dual speakers.. Amoled screen.. Good battery back up and quick charging..3Gb Ram and 16Gb Internal memory.. 4g Enabled.. Etc..
5|Looks good... Works fast.... Happy to buy it...
5|Good Phone.....Excellent Performance
3|So many software complaint is there.
5|Good phone with nice gesture support
4|image viewer missing, rest awesome !
5|Kya isme removable battery h ya nhi.
5|Nice phone,touch screen is very good
5|Great phone with unbelievable speed.
4|One plus x is really value for money
5|Best and stylish phone for my budget
5|As expected a quality product by OP.
3|This is not a best problem in phones
4|Nice budget phone with awesome specs
3|Finally I get 1+x Yaa its real good
5|Excellent phone and prompt delivery.
5|One of the Best Phones at the price.
5|awesome phone sexy look and features
5|Amazing device And Good looking
4|Got one plus x DM on 8095259500
4|Great phone. Slight heating problem.
3|Any one need WhatsApp me 9058757069.
5|invite code INE9-CA8D-5B44-0F40
5|Awesome device at such a less price.
5|Best look available in the market ..
3|activated invite INBC-3F4C-9C68-B083
5|Money worthy phone... Really awesome
5|Please invite me garvitsi@gmail. Com
5|Amazing solid look fantastic product
5|Wow..! The OPX is outstanding device
5|Anyone wants an invite???? I have it
5|I chose this thing instead of Xiaomi's Mi4, This thing is a beast. I would clearly recommend this phone for the ones looking out for precision and perfection (In Budget), This is ART of creating phone. Thanks OnePlus as well as amazon.in !
5|I really loved the product ,packing
4|Phone is good but headphone missing
1|It's charger conked in a single day
5|Seriously its a beauty with brain !
5|Want to hug u once love the product
4|Nice phone looks good and satisfied
4|good mobile but battery life is low
5|Best available phove in this budget
3|IT IS OK , BUT SOME TIMES IT STALLS
5|Contact for invites 9663966393
5|Best Handset in this price bracket.
4|Excellent phone only minus is audio
5|Awesome phone and gorgeous looks!!!
5|Its the most stylish phone for 17k.
5|Got an invite ping me on 8888370134
5|Good Feature of phone and nice look
4|Great performance and battery life.
5|Awesome looking phone and worth it.
5|Excellent phone for excellent price
5|Pls give invite ...I ll be thankful
4|INF1-132D-2F04-72B3 use this invite
5|Excellent phone for excellent price
1|Better don't purchase this phone i.e.one plus x oynx as if when we are using Internet it gets heated up in 15 mins. time & second thing is it gets hanged in midst of opening the locking screen or in mid of typing. So please better don't go for the same. I am returning this phone to one plus company....
2|Heating up and batteries drys soon
5|Amazing phone in this price range.
4|Excellent and time bound delivery.
3|Uts a nyc phone but its gets hot !
4|Battery backup not up to the mark.
4|Nice product for this price range.
5|good one and up to my expectations
5|Awesome Product. Worth the money..
5|It's awesome..,best gadget of 2015
5|Awesome phone .. Value for money..
4|I have a good experience overall..
5|Good phone Battery okkk
4|Good One...except battery life....
3|It's too big for me, it hangs also
5|Awesome phone in this price range.
4|Camera clarity is good as expected
4|Good spec. But low quality camera.
5|Enjoy :-) IN14-5EDD-DBF5-C2BC
5|Worth every penny. Just go for it.
5|A killer phone at 17k. Just get it
5|Contact me for invite (9789739299)
5|smooth, fast,, clean design and OS
4|Great performance Amazing display
5|Really a mind-blowing piece of art
5|A great product with a great price
5|It's awsmmmm mobile in this budget
2|taking too much time to charge battery 100% we have to charge twice a day. i suggest compare other product with this if you will get this features in same rate then go for other brand. again battery back up poor
1|Dual SIM cant be used with Memory Card. SIM #2 Tray is used for SIM 2 or for Memory card Phone Internal memory only 16 GB. After APPS installation only 8 GB available as storage.Photos are of quality,which will fills Memory Fast !!
5|Awesome phone...value for money..
5|It'll match up to ur expectations
5|A very good phone for its price..
5|I am really happy with this phone
3|Nice phone at a reasonable price.
5|its nice cell in this price range
5|On time delivery and trust worthy
5|Awesome phone.. Quite smooth VFM.
5|Very good Mobile but less Storage
5|Value for money! Superb product..
5|Overall experience was very good.
5|Nice future and very good phone..
4|Is it support Gujarati language ?
5|It's worth buying for this amount
5|Nice phone and amazing feastures.
5|Amazing phone. 100% satisfaction.
4|The best phone in the segment ...
5|Good touch screen.. Very soft ..
2|One plus one is better than one x
5|Very good best one for this price
5|Amazing product Loved it....
5|Awesome Product.On time delivery.
2|I m unhappy with the phone camera
4|Beautiful looks and works lovely.
4|Really more than value for money.
5|Use code INE4-6879-C0B3-2D20
5|One word is enough to describe it
4|Not a flagship but looks good....
5|Another beast from oneplus.. ;-)
3|Got it 2 days Back... Specs are good, display is good .Camera is nice. Cons: Phone heats up in medium usage. and battery should be more then 3000mah... then it would have been a perfect model.
5|Free one plus x invite http://onepl.us/INAF-5F15-C2E8-CC42 http://onepl.us/INCE-2C6E-465E-B574 http://onepl.us/IN8A-E08F-B9CD-8CA0 Enjoy..Share a smile once u used at eh.mahesh@gmail.com
5|Seriously this is a great phone at this price point. 801 and 3gb of ram will never give u lags! Both the cameras are great auto focus is also quick. The display looks beautiful. True blacks are visible.
5|Best Quality Phone of this range
5|Excellent Phone, Worth the Price
5|Good Service & very good phone..
4|Nice phone. Expecting price cut.
5|Awesome fone...just go for it...
5|Very Good Phone. Fantastic Phone
5|Very nice. Ergonomic and stylish
5|Great phone at an amazing price!
4|Good camera, Touch is very good.
5|Really good phone for that price
5|Worth to buy... Very good phone
5|Good product... Good delivery...
2|Delivered with a faulty adapter.
3|Battery backup is not that good.
5|Amazing handset. I am loving it.
5|Best phone in this price range !
5|Good phone great value for money
3|It's good but has its own issues
5|IN00-96CC-8E6B-6FF9 Free Invite
5|Excellent buy in the price range
4|Product is good.dilivery at time
4|For invite. Msg me - 08460432571
5|Amazing Product...kudos one plus
5|Free invite IN82-369F-E276-9330
5|Very good mobile iI cheep price.
5|I really want to buy this phone.
5|I got finally yeeeeppeeeee......
5|A perfect buy. Got it on first day from another account. Delivery was on next day itself. Superb camera, no heating issue, fastest charging. Just loving it. 1+ is also on 'make in India'.
4|Good Phone with great features.
5|Very nice performance till now.
5|The phone Oneplus X is Awesome.
5|Great product at a decent price
4|Nice phone as compared to price
5|Right phone for the right price
5|Excellent phone. no more words.
4|IN35-CF92-769D-F8E2 Use it
5|Nice phone, Value for Money !!!
5|quick delivery exellent mobile
5|Great phone met my expectations
5|Very good phone and I love this
5|Love my one plus x, great phone
5|Excellent mobile with 3 gb ram.
4|so far the phone is doing good.
5|The best phone in this range...
4|Best mobile I have ever seen...
5|loved it.. best in the range..
4|Good phone with lot of hardware
4|invite please jffhrd7@gmail.com
3|The metal on the sides is black
5|Value for money and great phone
5|Its worth buying,really awesome
5|As expected... Good experience.
5|Very nice phone.Worth for money
5|Must buy phone for this budget
4|Smooth phone, Happy till now :)
5|behtreen phone, jabardast ,,...
5|IPhone got serious competition!
5|Very good phone and good look's
5|No words.phone is simply superb
5|Superb phone.... Loving it!!!!
3|Anyone need one plus x invite ?
5|It is really a good smart phone
2|MicroSD Card is not recognized.
5|Good phone and Xpress Delivery.
5|Got Invite here 7204846749
5|Amazing phone n value for money
2|Awsum phone but poor delivery service
3|1, head set not available 2, gyroscope sensor not available 3, Price is high (Rs 12000 ok with headset) 4, Finger print sensor not available 5, battery 2500 ( above 3000 its better)
5|invite required...... please do help
5|awesome...nice picture quality
4|Happy to have bought OnePlus X
4|Great product. Quick Delivery.
3|satisfied with specifications.
5|Value for Money.....Best Phone
5|i m in love with this phone...
5|nice user friendly...good one
5|very good one.... worth to buy
5|Really it's awesome cell phone
5|Fantastic phone for its price.
4|Good display & resolution.....
5|Excellent product from OnePlus
5|Best midrange mobile available
5|Finally sdcard issue fixed..?
5|Top notch product...go for it.
5|Pl share the One Plus X invite
5|Awesome Product by OnePlus !!!
5|I have an invite ...8939134326
4|Good...worth for the price tag
5|So happy & thanks Amazon India
5|Great mobile from oneplus team
5|Product is awesome as expected
4|Amazing product from one plus
5|Best phone with in price range
1|This is a huge embarrassment for waiting to get an invite. Looks good but pathetic on software . Having sd card issue on day one. Not recognising SIM card and sd card. Don't even think about it.
4|good responsive piece of work
5|The bestseller of this season
4|Best phone for mid range....
4|Good Delivery, Phone is good.
4|It's time to lower the price.
4|Is OTG support in One plus x?
5|Superb mobile for less budget
4|Good to buy.. Awesome product
5|Super awesome smartphone.. !!
5|Awesome Phone for this price.
5|User friendly and good to use
5|Great product. Thanks Amazon.
4|Good phone with more features
5|It's best phone in the budget
5|Very Good phone in this range
5|It is the best cell phone!!!!
5|beautiful and grt performance
5|TOO GOOD,specially the camera
4|Best and cheapest smartphone.
4|Very Good Phone at this price
5|As expected..Really happy..:)
2|Display Resolution very low
5|Amazing phone, superb design,
5|This is really a good mobile.
4|IN4E-00F4-6D19-4AC9 claim it.
5|Good looks and must buy phone
5|Premium phone for this price.
5|Amazing, received in 24 hours
5|Amazing phone, simply superb
5|Good looking power ful phone.
5|good one for mid range mobile
5|Great company and great phone
5|Great Product at great price.
5|IN6F-3FA7-BB84-CF1C njoy this
5|Amazing phone. Just loved it.
5|Eagerly waiting for invite...
5|nice features at this price..
5|Superb and coolest phone ever
2|Not at all worth taking especially when you are spending 17000?. Go for something reliable. I would rather prefer any brand over one plus. Reason:- Camera is not at all clear as it should be when compared to other phone's cameras in the same range. Resolution sucks. As you go further you have got nano sim slots which makes your sim useless if you want to switch to another mobile in case of your one plus x goes for repair. Haan if your dual sim user then there is again a problem with this phone you can either connect to sim 2 or sd card. You will have to choose between the two. Later on sim lock is more of a problem rather being a specification as you need a key everytime you need to chande the sim depends how frequently you change the sim. Most importantly you are investing 17000Rs and you are not even getting a headphone or earphone. Come on atleast i deserve it. Bahut nainsaafi hai dost. What you will like is surely its touch, look and bas itna hi... upar se look ka to band baj jata when you look for its safety an start using back cover.
5|This is excellent and outstanding smartphone, this one is just like Iphone with great features. THIS ONE IS WORTH TO BUY. The OnePlus X runs Android 5.1.1 Lollipop-based OxygenOS out-of-the-box. There are two things that we absolutely love about OxygenOS. One is its near stock Android approach and the other frequent updates. When contacted OnePlus had earlier told us that having their own user interface had allowed them greater freedom to push out frequent and quicker updates. And, the team is doing a pretty good job at it. The OnePlus X ships with OxygenOS 2.1.2. Look and Feature are awesome Looks good Great display Decent performance Good software Performance is excellent! Camera: The 13MP rear camera of OnePlus X can capture has three key shooting modes - slow-motion, time-lapse and panorama - apart from photo and video captures. OVER ALL OnePlus X is a premium smartphone with a budget price tag and a compact body. The elegant design, display panel, performance and clean software are the highlights of the handset, and even the battery life is not too bad.
4|Overall Good phone. Its been around 1 month I purchased this phone Positive things I could experience: Very good look/design Phone box packing is also awesome and different. You get basic/transparent plastic back cover, screen guard free. Stable HardWare Camera/video quality is awesome Battery life is good 3 GB RAM is noticeable via performance Charger is good and fast enough. CPU performance is good. All OS features working well as of now. Price is attractive and worth paying Improvements required: First time or basic smart phone users will find this difficult to operate. OS is good enough but not attractive or user friendly compare to other branded. User manual is not descriptive/in detail which is provided with the phone, you need to download detailed user manual from Oneplus website. Still found few OS and HW features associated with phone are not explained there. Speakers are good but not excellent. Network holding stability can be improved. Nano SIM slot is not much easy/comfortable. Memory card and SIM slot is not that perfect to hold them properly in the slot. Either you can use dual SIM or Single SIM plus Memory card. No ear phones provided with phone. I am not sure about service experience. However there are service centers available in major cities. Overall suggestion on this phone based on one month experience is "Go with it"
2|Pros: Build looks premium. Can't say if its. I don't want to drop it, as the build is glass. 5 inch form factor with dual sim (i needed one so I am keeping it) Amoled Display is good, no color concentration seen. Drains your battery.) Beautiful Adapter Stock Android interface mostly Cons Battery life (keep the screen on, browse, it drains. If the screen is not on, it would last more than a day. Ensure most of yoru apps are set to Dont Awake) Isocell Sensor sucks. The phone has a hit config similar to Mi4 (I loved it) but they ised a different sensor hence the images are not that good. A low priced phone will produce similar images. OS bugs (every now and then you would realise something is not working. I have not shared the details as I am not trackign but the irst one you will see when you start the phone, it is unable to connect via WIFI to configure. Once the phone is past that it will connect over wifi and sync fine. Nothing major, but a bit annoying. Your second sim would work and you are able to makea call from it but it might/would show "emergency calls only header" at the top at times. Disable and re-enable it..it works fine Display's double tap seems interesting, but it is very anoyintg as it activates the screen when you are on call, and the the screen touches your ears. Oneplus radio has VERY POOR RADIO reception. I have always wanted a radio on my phone. Nano sims..these sims jump and are hard to manage. Be careful when placing them on tray as you would drop them at least two to three times, and trust me you dont have to be butter fingers. They would fall out. Can't play games...launched Angry Birds 2 and Candy Crush (I hate this game but used it to test only). The battery loses 1% charge every 50 seconds. You can do the remaining maths.
5|First of all....Amazon India service is too good compared to Flipkart, Snapdeal and any other online retailers. First I ordered OnePlus X, but then I felt I should have bought OnePlus two instead. I immediately processed through return policy of Amazon, the guy came at my doorsteps and picked up the phone on next day. I got myself OnePlus two through invite. It was powerful phone than X, but then screen was bit washed out, also it was too heavy for me and was bothering me inside my pocket. I returned Two and got myself X again. This is what I liked about Amazon. So hats off to their service....!! Coming on quality of X......it is most beautiful phone in the market right now. Size of the phone is too perfect for me for one handed use. Screen is too good to look at....blacks are seriously inky blacks. Also Oxygen OS gives you fair amount of customization without compromising speed of the phone....feels like stock android with some useful additions. 2.5 d glass, back glossy material and aluminium frame definitely gives it premium feel (designers of X are too influenced by iPhone for sure). Overall I'm very satisfied with OnePlus X and Amazon India......both of them rocks.
1|The OnePlus X despite the hype suffers from various inherent design issues. 1. The lock screen is very slow. It takes almost 10 seconds once you tap for the pin keypad to come up so that you can unlock the screen. 2. The backside is too smooth which makes the phone slide on top of tables and liable to fall. 3. If you have dual sim, it asks everytime which sim to select for call. Even when you set the default sim in the phone options, it still asks you. 4. The contact sync with Google does not work as expected. I had to disable the sync to make it work. I mean who would think that disabling something would make it work. 5. Sim 3G does not automatically start when you move away from the Wifi. You have to disable and enable it again for it to work. Within 15 days of purchasing the device, it fell from a height of couple of feets and that shattered its screen. Visited the service center where I was informed that there are no replacement parts available and that it would take at least couple f months for the OnePlus X replacement inventory to be available. After 15 minutes on call with the customer care which involved a conference call with various department leads, I was again informed that there are no replacement parts anywhere in India and that it would take some time for the replacement screen to be available. They promised me that they would inform me when the parts are available. I am not holding my breath. Until they solve the supply chain issues and the software bugs, its better to stay away. Buy a Moto G instead. At least with Motorola, you know that you will get quality product.
2|Hi all, this is my first review in any of these new e commerce sites and I'm doing it from my one plus x. My first smartphone was moto g first gen..with so much expectations I bought my second smartphone which happened to be one plus x. I was looking for a smartphone which doesnt hang and which will at least not get switched off while I travel in train for my 12hr journey. See my review below about my second smartphone, I don't know much about technical specs like Gorilla or Chimpanzee glass..just an honest review from an average guy. Pros 1. Good camera with some nice functions like slow motion, don't know about other smaartphones, please excuse my ignorance. 2. Can't find any..sorry. 3. And yes some functions are there ..touch sensitive display, if I bring my hand near screen it recognizes ha-ha..and the speaker is good, come on l have crossed that age to hear songs in speaker. 4. Looks are good, quite good and again I have crossed that age to go for looks instead of performance. Cons 1. Hangs often...that's disappointing for my 17k..ridiculous I would say. I don't understand why. 2. Poor battery, believe me u charged 100% over night switched on 4g data while day, no I didn't use it and by 6 pm it got switched off. Was shocked to see it. Overall- your call mate,check other options please.
4|Although i had to return the product due to heating issues, but Build - 9.5/10 Looks - 10/10 Performance - 8/10 Ergonomics and feel - 9/10 Battery - 5/10 Specs are all over the web, talking about some cons : (1) Heating !!!! Asphalt Nitro , fifa 14 and even while web browsing on LTE. the core has some serious algorithm problems, which are needed to be sorted out. The temperature sometime reached so that it became impossible to hold. (2) glass black Super Slippery , Fingerprint magnet. Although Oneplus has provided with the silicone case, i dropped it twice the first day with the case on. Nothing happened, Case gets 5/5 (3) Battery I've used iphone 5S, 6 in past and was expecting a better performance, but disappointed. also, the battery drains surprisingly fast below 40% - 15% and below 8% (4) Lags Yes!, although i am a power user, but sometimes i found it a bit lagging in taking screenshots, opening heavy apps
4|Decent phone, beautiful look. It is very handy. Pros:- 1.) Performance : Brilliant performance with no lag whatsoever. Gaming is butter smooth. No complaints here. 2.) Looks : As I have mentioned before, this phone looks costlier than it actually is. It's slim body gives it superior feel. And, surprisingly it is not heavy at all. 3.) Display : It's 1080p AMOLED screen is treat for the eyes. Colour reproduction and pixel density is perfect for crisp sharp display with high colour contrast. I personally like the 5-inch phones because they are easy to handle and operate with one hand. 4.) Camera : The quality of both front(8 MP) and back(12.4 MP) camera is quite remarkable with sharp images. Low-light images are somewhat grainy but not too bad for my liking.The camera app is stock android with in-built features of Timelapse, Slow-Mo video recording, Panorama etc. Cons : But it have some minor issues bt you can not expect every thing in this range. 1. Not able to move application in SD card. I should be fixed. 2. Gallery menu is not available. Quite confusing why this is not available. 3. I feel little bit heating issue while using phone and phone is plugged in charger. If you are playing game 15-20 min, then fell heating issue also. 4. Battery performance is not Good as it have 2525 mAh battery.
5|One plus X = Andriod Iphone (Best looks, performance, display. No customization, better battery than iphone6, bad battery than one plus one & Mi4i. Hi guys. Before buying 1+ X, I was using Mi4i. Its been 3 days now using 1+ X. Here's few things which might give you a clear idea. Display:10/10 The display of the phone is really really classy. You will feel like just staring at it. Performance: 10/10 I tried using one launcher for sometime and my phone was really working damn cool & smooth. No lags at all. I was amazed looking at this performance aft using Mi4i. Also games are running damn smooth. Camera: 7/10. I was using Mi4i which has the best camera currently. But trust me, 1+ camera is also not that bad. You wont regret leaving Mi4i camera and switching over to 1+ camera. Speakers: 8/10 Speakers are way better than Mi4I in terms of sound quality & noice. Quality is nothing extra ordinary but satisfactory. Feel of the phone:10/10. Phone's animation while oping lock screen & notification bar, touch, design, mutlitasking, gestures is really awesome. Battery: 6/10. I am really disappointed by the battery. Compared to Mi4i battery which was 3000Mah approx, 1+ battery is 2500Mah. Within 10 hours of above average use (no games, but surfing, facebook, whats app etc) battery goes from 100% to 20%. Its battery is better than Iphone6 but as compared to Mi4i, its disappointing. OS: 6/10. This OS is quite boring compared to MIUI. But its light & really fast. I really likes several features of MIUI like customization, grouping all notification messages in one folders, swipe right to read a message, gallery, mi cloud system etc. This phone doesn't have all this things. But you can always use Third party launchers to overcome this. 1+ really performs well so not an issue. Price: 8/10 At Rs.17000/- this phone will give you classic premium look with all other advantages. According to me, its fair value should be around 15k. Dual Sim / Memory card slot is really very helpful. Final Verdict: 1+ will really make you happy when you use the phone. Its fast, reliable, smooth and meets all your needs. If you want customization then it is really plain and boring. This phone is just like Iphone when it comes to looks, performance & battery with android OS. It fun to use this phone because of its speed & reliability.
5|This is the first review i am writing on some product and i am doing this as i am impressed with Amazon services and 1+x as of today. The phone costs Rs. 17K, after the 15% (Rs. 1500 max)cash back i will get sometime in feb-16, it costs Rs. 15,500. I have been looking for a mobile change just like that without any reason . Background - I have been using Samsung nexus 3 followed by nexus 4 and then Xperia z2. My requirements were simple. :-) 1. Less than 15K 2. 5 inches display size - smaller the phone, easier to slide into my jeans pockets and take it out and confident inspiring grip in my hand. 3. FHD display - no reason, but a minimum requirement. 4. One day battery life - i can charge every night 5. Fast charging - I am a lazy guy and will forget to charge many times, so faster it charges, better 6. Plain stock Android as much as possible - too many apps result in reduced usage of the apps and also end up wasting your memory, data and battery juice. 7. Expandable memory and Removable battery as it gives me flexibility My choices were MI 4i, moto x play. Got a MI 4i and returned in 2 days because it got heated up and touch gets stuck many times when it comes out of sleep. Thanks for Amazon hassle free return policy. Moto x play had a bigger screen and i dont like Motorola for no reason i can explain. My brother had 1+x invite and thought of ordering one. Amazon has hassle free returns and hence didn't hesitate to order immediately. Ordered the phone on 8-nov evening with next day morning delivery. Got the phone 09-nov morning by 9.30 am. Lightning fast and prompt delivery by Amazon. Worth paying the extra 120 bucks. The packing was premium. It had the scratch guard already. Thanks for understanding our requirements. It also had a silicone back cover. Probably to cover the finger print recording back cover. :-) . You can take the phone and use it just like that. Sleek - fits in my hand Display is sharp and clear Phone is fast as far as i have used. Hasn't heated up yet. Planning to give to my son for his games and then check. No pre installed apps except for Google apps. Let's me install only what iIwant instead of uninstalling already loaded apps. Black theme looks simple yet elegant. Camera is clearer and crisper . I hardly use my camera. Not a photo enthusiast. Getting started was easy except for in the step after WiFi connection - it hangs. Had to skip WiFi connection during setup. Battery lasted one day. Hasn't charged it yet. So don't know how fast it charges. You can have 2 Sim or one Sim and one micro SD. I like that flexibility. Haven't tried the drop test and water resistance. My son will do that anytime for me. :-) Will keep you guys updated. For now I am very happy that I have got 1+x from Amazon. Thank you. Happy Diwali!!!!
5|First of all, Amazon must be credited for its one-day guaranteed delivery service. I received the phone within 48 hours of the purchase. It is said that - "Packaging gives the first impression". This phone comes in a very aesthetically pleasing packaging, similar to that of iPhone. The box contains not only the charger, usb cable and user manual but also the "protective case" and "screen guard", which is a Thumbs-up for the consumers. The phone is beautifully designed, giving a rich look. Its curved edges, stainless steel finish and sleek design gives a tough competition to many smartphones. Under the hood, the OxygenOS with Lollipop makes things all the more easy to use. Its display and HD quality 5-inch screen is very pleasing. It is also easy to use with one hand. The sound quality is very good. Camera - It's one of the best among many smartphones competing at this price range. 13 MP primary and 8 MP secondary camera is enough for taking good quality indoor and outdoor pics. The only concern is its complicated sim-tray mechanism. The sim-ejector needs to be inserted in a notch provided just above the volume keys for ejecting the sim tray (Nano Sim + Memory Card), which might be a bit painful for the user. However, One Plus One has the same feature. I would recommend this phone to those who love to experiment. If you're bored and tired using Samsung or Apple smartphones then, OnePlus is the right way to go. OnePlus X is indeed a good buy!
5|Got delivered within 12 hours. You have to use the word prrmium the moment you hold the device. Pros. 1. Great disply and very responsive touch screen. 2. Decent camera. 3. Good battery life in the first discharge cycle. 4. Loads of customization available. 5. Compact. 6. Adequately powerful processor though it stutters now and then (can be fixed through an update ) 7.Toggle key works great. Cons. Nothing majore ........ but 1. It would have been better to have OIS for camera and a true dual sim with sd card slot. 2. Have some bugs like sd card details not shown in storage option etc...... hopefully it shall be addressed by opX team soon..... 3. No 5ghz wifi band !!!! Overall great device to hold and use on a day to day basis. Guys don worry about the absence of a finger print sensor which you may say that a low budget smartphone will have. But once you see the amoled display and built quality you won't regret buying it. Update:- After 5 days I will stick to what I told initally. Love the 5 inch form factor. Awesome built quality. Good battery life. Nice call quality. Loud speaker is very loud ( not rich in sound but decent enough) no issue with day to day performance after couple of updates, good job oneplus. Awesome amoled display with great contrast level. My only complaint is about the Camera which as I told initally is just..... Decent....... I thought It will be atleast like Oneplus one if not like OP2. But no manual controls and lots of digital nois if the light is not adequate. Other than that no regret and will definately recommend to those who want to have a 5 inch device with premium built quality at this price range. I will rate it 8.5 out of 10. Go for it guys if you have an invite as of now ?
5|Good buy for the price .. !!
4|Nice phone ..thnk you amazon
3|Both the camera is very poor
5|Awsome phone.....luving it:)
5|"No problem" mobile!
1|heating issue, hanging issue
4|its an awesome phone overall
3|Battery could be more better
4|An amazing phone within 20k.
5|Great Mobile at good price..
5|Excellent but, Sophisticated
3|The product was just okay!!!
5|Nice and user friendly phone
5|the best in this price range
5|Awesome phone. No compliants
3|No External SD card support.
2|Heating machine dissapointed
4|Describe about return policy
4|Overall a good phone to buy.
5|Amazing phone , just get one
5|Awesome product by oneplus.
5|excellent product and design
1|NOT GOOD... NOT IMPRESSED...
5|I LOVE IT . Wonderful phone.
1|The usb cable isn't working.
4|Great Design & Build Quality
5|Magnificent. Simply Awesome.
5|great phone. faster delivery
5|superb @ this price point ..
5|I am happy about this device
1|i returned because bad rewes
5|Good product. Fast delivery.
4|Excellent cell phone .amazing screen clarity and camera shoots. Good easy grip. It would be good to have complete accessories like head phone which is missing in this
4|Nice product but you should have invite if you don't have one then can mail me at fkdk1998@gmail.com And do click on helpful to be eligible for getting an invite
5|Great product at this price
5|Awesome phone for the price
5|no words. excellent phone..
3|RAM is Strucking some times
4|Nice phone in that range ..
5|supper, loving it oneplus X
4|Its magnificent. I love it.
5|It's just awesome. Love it.
2|Operating system bugs there
5|superb phone in this budget
5|Very good Phone and service
5|Good Product but Heats alot
4|Touch is not good and slow.
5|Good one..i am loving it :)
5|V good value for money.....
3|battery performance is week
4|Why invoice is not emailed?
4|Perfct camera,bettr tan 1+1
4|The best phone in its range
5|Superb product and delivery
5|Mindblowing, i m loving it.
5|nice I like this out coting
5|Waiting for the same....wow
2|Awesome looking phone ! But what good it does without battery. Used it with 2 sim cards for a week with 3g/wifi on. Very moderate usage (30 Mins calling/10 Mins navigation/ 1 hr watsapp) this would was my approx usage pattern; With this below moderate usage Screen on Time did not cross 3.5hrs. Even when the phone was idle the battery would drain faster than my 2 year Old lumia 720. Performance in my phone was Patchy as well. Phone used to hang for 30 secs or so before returning to normalcy. Design is the only plus with this phone battery is a big let down. Performance was ok-ish. After this disappointment from OnePlusX i was simply mind blown by Amazon's return policy ! I just hit the return package in the site and selected the date and time for return. Next day the courier guy informed me he is outside the gate to collect the package. And within an hour the refund was made ! Mind = Blown !! Only one request to Amazon. get more phones on your platform like Flipkart. 5 Star rating for Amazon 2 star for OneplusX for the design.
5|I purchased oneplus x a week ago and I must admit this phone rocks in almost every aspect. The moment I got my hands on this piece of art, it felt I've never touched something premium like this for a long time. Looks like oneplus payed more attention to the design this time. The aluminium frame along the sides is solid. The back panal is made of onyx black glass and the front with AMOLED screen of 441ppi. Power the phone to life and you will witness the fabulous screen quality and depth. Black is more black and red is more red and so on. Good punchy color reproduction. Now coming to the performance it blazing fast no matter what you throw at it. IT NEVER LAGS. Touch is very responsive, no probs. Still haven't tried heavy gaming though. Tried "kill shot" and "brothers in arms 3" and the phone suffered no frame drops or any sort of heating issues. Gaming was flawless though some say is not meant for hardcore gamers. Snapdragon 801 paired with 3gb ram should run all your daily applications, browsing with ease. Though snapdragon 801 is not the latest and best around, it still belongs to the powerful 800 series and has not shown its age yet. The notification LED is fantastic. Customisation of the light makes it more reliable and cool The speaker output is good but may not be the best aroung the price range. Sound is clear, loud but I felt the quality of speakers could have been slightly improved for a more immersive music experience. For people who prefer listening with headphones its not a problem. Camera is awesome. Rear camera does a excellent job I'm producing natural pictures while the front was also good but color seems quite inaccurate but pics are sharp and vivid given its 8mp camera. Autofocus is quicker than its predecessor oneplus 2. Not a very noticible difference. Battery is better than average. For those of you wondering whether this device having a 2500mah battery would suffice a day the answer is yes. Absolute yes. You will still have 30%-20% juice left after moderate to heavy usage in a day. No one can tell how long the battery will last because it greatly differs from person to person usage. Oxygen OS is fluid. Features like double tap wake up, draw v for flashlight and other gestures are freaking awesome. OS is more polished. One thing i felt which could have been done is the Battery could have been 3000mah as most phones in this price range give you that or even more. Nothing on earth is perfect. So as this. Overall the phone is great. It feels great and performs great. The power this phone contains can blow any phone to dust in this price range including moto x play and mi4i. Snapdragon 801 can easily outperform 615 chipset despite the 64bit octacore architecture. Finger print sensor could also have been included as phones like lenovo vibe p1 offers the feature at a lesser cost. Still the phone is definitely a steal for the price.
3|Looks- Frankly speaking the phone looks wow..!! The baked glass finish on the back and the sleek metal edges make it look like a premium high end phone. You will just keep on staring at the 1+ image on the back under the glass panel. It does look great but is very slippery when kept on even a sofa or a normal cloth. also its a fingerprint magnet due to the glass finish but i dont mind cleaning it since its not a drawback, I did give it full points. Verdict- 10/10. Display- Its got a 5 inch AMOLED screen and color and images are displayed pretty vividly and sharply.with 441 ppi its a good combination of high resolution hd display to match the phone size. Verdict- 9/10 Camera- the rear camera is a 13 Mp shooter with an opening of F2.2 aperture which helps in better light intake into the lens transforming into great low light images. Day pics are without a doubt stunning. even the front camera takes excellent pics in low light and is not dissapointing for a 17k cellphone!!. There is jus a small issue in the flash during nightime and that is the phots taken at night with a flash come with a slight purplish hue always. Hope this issue is rectified soon by the One Plus Team. Verdict- 7/10 Performance, Heating and Interface The X is powered by the Snapdragon 801 processor mated with 3 gb of DDR3 ram running on android lollipop 5.1. No performance issue whatsoever and it takes everthing thrown at it without a lag. The Phone has normal heating depending on usage but does not heat up like crazy. its normal and way cooler than the one plus two. The oxygen OS interface is still something in the making and will require no of bug fixes and updates. Verdict- 7/10 Connectivity- It has a dual smart sim ie the second sim card slot doubles up as a memory card slot. speaking of memory cards the phone does not recognize the memory card as a part of external storage and cannot be used for normal storage. One plus has sent these phones without testing them i guess and its a major major drawback considering the fact that internal usable memory is only around 10.50GB. Hopefully it should get sorted out with a software update and if it does not, people will confidence in this brand for sure. All in all apart from the memory card reading issue and the purple tinge on night flash the phone is a bang for the buck!!! Go for it...
2|Expensive and Oxyzen OS is not that good. I bought this one and Asus zen 2 just by paying 3k more. Asus is more superior surey in OS and it gives 4 GB RAM also.
5|Great looks !! Good speed.
5|Best mobile for this price
5|Awesome function great!!!
4|Good phone in the budget..
5|Excellent product..love it
4|Good mobile at this price.
4|super features one pluse x
5|Good mobile.. Fast shippi6
3|Product is so far so good.
5|Nice Phone Sleek and Handy
5|a piece of beauty, indeed!
5|GOOD PHONE VALUE FOR MONEY
4|The best performing Beaty.
5|Than truly value for money
5|Simply amazing nice mobile
3|Battery problem. Heats up.
3|Is it a chineese phone....
5|good phone speedy delivery
4|Nice phone at great price!
5|Complete bang for the buck
5|Best phone for this price.
4|Can't beat the price value
5|Arrived before. Thank you.
5|Worthwhile for given price
5|for invite call 9911111166
5|Good design Decent battery
5|Superb design and features
4|Plz give me a invite codes
5|Hello Fiends, I have 3 invites for one plus X, any genuine purchase please contact on 9922850075 This product is amazing, go book it today
4|One plus has delivered a premium like phone for mid range customers. This phone has truely awesome looks and close to iPhone 5s but yet slimmer. More about the specifications, Snapdragon 801 proc is 32 bit and not 64..huh.. Anyways bt as for performance this has score 40k on Antutu benchmark, which is quite enough for mid graphics gaming. I am more amazed by the screen quality and touch, as this is the 1st phone by One Plus which has AMOLED full hd display. Battery life is very good, it lasts for almost 12 hours with lots of browsing, using WhatsApp, listening songs and mild gaming. The Oxygen OS is very smooth.. But still lacks what CM has.. I hope Oxygen will come with all the features which CM posses. Camera is great.. 13mp rear and 8mp front does click very nice clicks just like what iPhone does. So grab it.. Its a nice deal for 17k.
4|nice phone with great customisable features. good battery life and the GUI is user friendly. only thing is some features which are very basic are missing.
1|First of all the very first handset I received was faulty. Its display kept turning off every now and then with out any reason. Got it replaced by Amazon with out any problems at all. Thanks to Amazon. Coming to OneplusX the phone's aesthetics are top notch. Solid build quality. Nice materials. Looks more like a bigger IPhone 4s but has its own distinct stylish look. The best feature is the display. Absolutely amazing. AMOLED display is superb with punchy colors and deep blacks. Battery life is really good. Easily lasts one day with pretty heavy usage. With couple of hours gaming and browsing, whatsapp etc. Now thats all thats good about the phone. OxygenOS is one of the worst I have seen. Buggy and one of the worse customized android version. Camera is nothing but waste. 13 megapixel works only in 4:3 ratio. When changed to 16:9 camera resolution downgrades to 7 megapixel. Photos are not impressive with lots of noise in both 13 and 7 megapixel mode. Front camera is far better than rear cam. Speakers are on the soft side. Not loud enough. If you don't want to miss calls or notification, better keep an eye on mobile every now and then. Ambient display (for which I actually brought the phone) works only when it feels so. Now new problem, the battery is reporting false status. 100% to 7% in one hour ( screenshot attached ) First I thought to wait for some days before reporting. But this is consistent now. 100% to 50% when restarted mobile ( screenshot attached ) Final verdict: I will not recommend this phone. But two stars for the extra brilliant display - One star for the battery bug
1|I ordered this product with high expectation. Delivered in one day, i was curious to open it. It was very stylish, thin, solid and beautiful. Silicon back cover is a good addition to protect the phone. Phone was already having a scratch guard. However the OS looks are little old, it reminds me of HTC one V (android 4.0.3). Camera is awesome. I felt little lag during the play around, might be transition effects. Unfortunately i was using a micro sim in my old mobile, so i trimmed my micro sim to nano sim to work in this phone. I didn't charge my battery at first use, since i have 91% of battery remaining when i started using the product. i made a call and the audio was pathetic, i thought it would need some burn in time. Second call was good. Again i faced the problem in third call. So i changed my nano sim from sim 1 location to sim 2 location, then all the calls were good. I started to update the phone by connecting with WIFI. Then i feels little hot at the back near the camera. Over the period, while it was updating, it was hot like a oven. i couldn't even touch with my bare hands.Then after update it came to normal. However when i browsed for 5 mins it again became hot. Battery drained from 91% to 48% within 2 hours of full usage. After 20 mins of browsing, i got a call from my friend and i couldn't even place it on my ears, it was like placing a iron box near to my ear. I don't know whether everyone facing this heating issue, No one has commented about this issue. It may be me alone, might be a problem handset. All my expectation went in vain, i initiated to return it.
2|Does not live up to my expectation. Heard some reviews that the camera is good in 1plus1 and 1plus2. 1PlusX camera is definitely very average. For 16K it is also not value for money, No NFC, No fingerprint, few pre-installed apps. 1PlusX is expecting you to download everything from Google Play. That is a feature of Google Android, so how is 1PlusX adding additional value here. Memory is low, 16K published but available memory is only 10~12K since OS takes this memory space. Screen size is 5" , this of course is a personal choice. Battery life, requires charging after a day. The only plus:-( is light weight, other than of course latest android version which is a common denominator anyways. My final verdict, there are many other Chinese phone makers in the Indian market that offers much more than 1PlusX with a bigger screen size if you prefer that.
4|The phone looks are awesome,display is beautiful compared one plus one, but there is a con where only one sim with sd card is possible you can'yt use dual sim with sd card ,because in sim card tray one nano sim card slot is there and in another slot if u put nano sim ,sd card is not possible and viceversa i.e in single slot they made sim and sd card ,either sim or card u can use at a time both sim and card is not possible i.e dual sim with card is not possible But for user its a worthy product at the price range ,overall awesome phone Dont worry as battery capacity is low but it will come easy one day after medium usage,and hence more customization is available If u r planning to buy go for it ,caompared to other product in market it will give u a better experience then other competator Overall its a beast in all except sim card and sd card issue
2|returned, value for money
5|Best phone in this range.
5|Such a good & nice phone
5|Very good mobile. I happy
5|i love this phone. i like
5|Great phone for the price
5|One plus x is nice mobile
3|this cell is over heating
4|A very good budget phone.
2|Oxygen OS is a nightmare.
5|great phone happy with it
4|Definitely worth the cost
3|Not bad.just looking good
4|Fully satisfied till date
5|Good mobile in one plus x
5|An Excellent piece of art
5|No complaints i observed.
4|Good look and Nice to use
5|this product is a gem :)
5|Excellent Smart phone....
5|Great phone at this price
4|Good phone but no gallery
4|Overall a good experience
4|Can't perform heavy games
5|Best in this price group.
4|nice looking mobile phone
5|Great Phone. Recommended.
5|very nice phone in bajet
5|Nce phone to work and use
4|amazing look & perfomance
5|Very nice phone under 20k
5|Its a great phone for 17k
5|this mobile was very nice
4|Great phone for the price
5|Awesm phone nice display
5|I am very much satisfied.
4|Best phone for this range
5|Awesome phone worth a buy
5|Best phone at this price.
5|Waiting for an invite :))
5|good at battry and looks
1|Looks like the OnePlus company does not have any Quality Control department, right out of the box the rear camera does not work, the phone looks good and sturdy, the front camera works as expected but the rear camera is blurry and out of focus, I tried it in the night and in the day with adequate lighting but the camera is very bad and takes very blurry and out of focus images. I have increased the exposure etc. but it is not good. it is defective. The sound is not loud enough, I have the ringer on full volume and I miss my calls if I am in the house and not in vicinity. I thought may be this particular piece is defective and I requested it to be replaced but amazon customer says she cannot replace it but if I want I can get a full refund, okay now I am trying for a full refund. you have to be lucky to get a good piece This my deepavali and I badly needed a good phone and my money is struck until I get it back, back to my old Samsung phone
2|Pro: 5 inches screen. Not a bulky 5.5. (This is a +ive for me. My not be so or others) Neat and sophisticated look similar to the iPhone 5 design language. AMOLED screen. (Deeper blacks and power efficient) Torch light. OK! Just kidding ;-) Dealbreaker: 16 GB Memory? SERIOUSLY?!! How much HD video can you take and store?! How much would be left to the user excluding Operating System and system files? 10 GB? SERIOUSLY?!! How much will be left after I load all my essential apps? And no, you can't move apps to SD Card! Cost of 64 GB memory card is 1500 Rs added to the overall budget! And Memory Card can never be as fast, reliable or effective as internal memory. The obviously mandatory memory card also goes into the same slot as SIM2. So you can't use it as a dual SIM phone anymore. Thanks! Cons - But some(or many) may insignificant based on your usage pattern: Where is MHL? So can not see those pics and videos on my LED TV using a cable?. Where is Miracast? So can not see those pics and videos on my LED TV wirelessly either. No NFC? So no digital payments and swipings in the future. No configurable NFC tag functionality too. (NFC Tags cost Rs 100 each and you can configure your NFC phone to do anything on touching them. I keep tags at office and home to touch and switch to wifi/3g/Bluetooth increase/decrease sound, brightness etc.) No Wifi AC standard?! So if you invest in a Wifi AC router(getting cheaper) to enjoy HD/UHD video streaming in the future, the router will automatically downgrade itself to the older Wifi N standard. Routers downgrade to the slowest wifi-standard device connected as they are backwards compatible with multiple standards. (But Wifi N supports upto 300 MBPS speeds which is adequate for the mobile per se) No IR Blaster. Can't use IR apps and use as remote controller. (Most phone don't have. But all should!) Qualcomm Snapdragon 801 processor used is one generation old (and obviously so is its embedded graphics chipset) There are people already complaining about stuttering video and missing frames in games. (But I hear it is adequate for normal use.) Just 13 MP and 8 MP cameras whose quality of output many reviewers didn't quite feel impressed with. (Oh common!) No USB Type-C port. (Ok. Not expected at this budget) No water-proofing or repelling. (Why not? Mot X play, Moto G 3 anyone?) Glass at back too. Risk of glass/screen breakage increases due metal frame construction. (but I loved the look!) No fast-charging capability(quick charging) (Oops!) No fingerprint scanner. (Why not? Even cheaper devices have now) With all these things missing, OnePlus can't claim that it is affordably priced for the asking price of 17000. We get the same configuration in much cheaper devices. Expect prices to drop soon. It is a wise business move to price high when interest is at its peak. The looks will pacify the buyer at this price though. It just looks neat!
5|I want to purchase this mobile phone for my sister. If any one have excess invite,, please share with me on my email ID - sagar97061@gmail.com
1|As I recieved the One Plus X, i was confident that I would have a Brand New Product as I can expect from Amazon as my experience till now with the online giant has been very good. But i was disappointed when after charging the phone and putting my Google credentials, i opened the camera and it looked as if I was looking through a opaque glass. The Main Camera took pictures with which were barely visible. I immediately decided to reorder the product. Which i did immediately.The product was repacked with its original packaging. I am hoping that I will get a working product and not a defective one. Fingers crossed. Recieved the product on Tuesday and I could check it today only. The main Camera is still having the same problem so what is the use of replacement. Did I get the same piece. I will cancel the order tomorrow morning.
4|P.S :- I Have Oneplus X Invite Anyone Can Contact Me Only For Today my Registered Email Id is Saykumart@gmail.com And Last Day To Use Invite.
5|Fantastic phone, thanks,
4|Nice and Quick service..
3|Ok but not user friendly
2|Not up to my expectation
2|issues with music player
5|Very good performance...
5|Worth for the price paid
4|It is worthy of its cost
4|nice phone. Worthy......
5|Nice phone I give 5 star
5|good phone for the price
5|Killer look. Very handy.
4|Full paisa vasool phone.
3|Screen size is very less
5|It's fast and effecient.
4|OK but camera improve...
4|Best Phone in low price.
5|All in one zakkas phone.
4|Good phone for the price
5|Cool simple nd smarty...
4|Worth every single penny
2|Battery backup very poor
4|Overall product is good.
5|i really love it so much
5|Awesome phone loving it.
5|Need invite? Contact me.
5|Excellent build quality.
5|Great phone I love it!!!
5|Its amazing !!! I luv it
4|Does any one need invite
5|Very Nice Looking Phone.
5|A Dope phone I ever had.
1|I think with Chinese phones, if you're lucky the phone turns out ok and if not... well money donwn the drain. Theres absolutely no battery life, unless you switch everything off, data, background apps, games, everything. Camera quality is ok if there's enough light, the extra megapixels are not really that great. A note 2 with an 8MP clicks better snaps than this one with 14MP. Phone heats up almost like an iron if you multitask between 3-4 apps or play any game (guess that part is true of any phone these days.) Call quality is not good, have to make a few calls to have a decent conversation beyond 5minutes. Not the serivce provider's fault, checked multiple operator sim cards. All in all not worth the price, wish i could return this phone and get a refund. A samsung J5 would have been better at a lesser price.
5|Don't buy a one plus x invite, the frequency of invites being set is quite high. Here's an invite that you can use IN45-B66A-626B-AD77
5|Good
5|Good
1|I am not at all satisfied with this model.It started hanging from Day 3 onwards. From 10th day it started behaving strangely and gets rebooted by itself.The screen gets stuck at 1+ android start up screen and does not move forward.When contacted customer care was not helpful and could not do anything to address the issue.The guys did not even had idea of service centers in Delhi.Overall a big disappointment and I wont recommend it to anyone specially when this happened with 10-15 days of purchase. At the top of this attitude of customer service was very poor.They could not resolve the issue , did not help in next steps and what to do with my now dysfunctional set.Now within 2 week sof purchase I am left with a black case which does not work and dont know what to do with it.
2|Ordered it on 6th November, received on 7th. Great service by ATS. Although, it sucks because Amazon started cashback offers from 8th November so I would say not fair. Rs. 1500 loss :( About product: Looks: Look wise it is an awesome phone No cons at all. No need for any pros too, because it IS really awesome. Performance: 1. Not sure whether I received a defective product but it a lagging even while playing Candy Crush. My older phone (very bad specs) too performed awesome with Candy Crush. 2. There is no backlight in the phone buttons (back button etc). You can't at all see the buttons. This should be a bare minimum requirement for any button. I would count this to be pathetic design con. Overall, not satisfied with the product's performance. Did not meet the expectations.
5|Its a very nice phone.
2|useless,speaker noisely
5|Wonderful full mobile .
5|***** Super satisfied!!
1|Not to my expectations! The worst phone I have ever used! There are many problems in the phone that needs to be checked. When I m typing something the screen automatically switches to the previous app used..
5|Very good budget phone.
5|Nice Mobile. Classic...
2|Battery backup very bad
5|Best Product Best Price
5|Finally my search ended
1|So much bad performance
3|It's Not Upto The Mark.
5|Excellent looking phone
5|Yes m totally satisfied
5|I just love this phone!
5|I love the phone <3
5|An amazing phone at 17K
5|Hey it's a superb phone
3|its camera is not fair.
4|Have an invite to share
5|I have one extra invite
5|Product quality is nice
5|Worth buying this phone
5|Please share invite....
5|Hate this invite system
5|Pros : Great oled display, it is one of the best full hd display. Great metal and glass built, feels great in hand and looks beautiful. Very good processor snapdragon 801 along with great GPU adreno 330. 3 GB ram for fluid multitasking. Dual sim and 4G LTE support. 16 GB internal with microsd card support upto 128GB. Very lite and functional oxygen os on top of android lollipop 5.1.1. 13 MP rear camera with 1080p and 720p 120fps slow motion video recording. 8MP front camera for great selfies and video calls. All essential sensors and connectivity option. Cons : NO NFC support. NO USB TYPE-C. NO fingerprint sensor. NOT water resistant. Same slot for second sim card and micro sd. Invite system.
3|I was amazed by the looks and bought oneplus x. Remember I was using Iphone 5C. Great looks. Awesome specs. Phone is fast enough. Good display.. All good things. I just realized, specs and numbers are never a measure for choosing a phone. Unfortunately, I was not happy with the product as it has many heating issues. A simple candy crush can heat your phone. having 3GB ram and SD 800 series processor, I was surprised to see a lag in any game I played. Hope an update will be released resolving these issues. Somehow I got disappointed and returned the phone. Amazon's return policy is amazing. Thanks a ton. By the way.. I have 3 free invites. If anybody wants, please email me at gpraveen4u@gmail.com
1|Worst mobile I have ever used... good camera, But no zoom. Issue with Mobile data, Issue with Dual Sim sending SMS.
2|1) Heating offen when not using any app or game 2) Phone hangs frequently 3) Games are too slow,.. Even for candy crush
5|Awesome must buy phone
5|Awesome.... Experiance
5|Beauty at its best..!!
1|Bull.....s***.........
4|Accha mobile hai....!!
5|nice phone....must buy
4|I am happy with it....
5|Value for what is paid
5|perfect with all means
5|Nice mobile under 20 k
5|As per expectation....
5|Nice mobile. Rich look
4|Phn is good I liked it
4|That looks cool to use
5|Till now it's sweet :*
4|Nice product loving it
5|Excellent Budget phone
5|Camera Quality Awesome
5|Good mobile.. Worth it
5|super mobile features
5|Nothing to say..superb
5|Best Mobile in segment
2|Very Poor Battery Life
5|No words! JUST SUPERB!
5|good and quick service
4|Worth waiting for.....
5|Quite a steal for 17k.
5|Anyone needed invite..
5|Amazing phone need one
5|very nice & smart look
1|dont expect much from this phone. the phone fot heated so much when used on wifi for 15 min. i had returned back the same
5|Bought the phone on 5th November. Got delivered on 7th. Thanks to Amazon! The phone looks too good. Handling is good. Decent price. Camera is very nice. Both front and back. Used at night and the photos were good. Better than Xiaomi and other phones. Battery will last for a DAY ONLY with a mixture of 4G and WiFi usage. Full charge takes around 2 hrs only. This is really good Light weight and well built Phone runs smooth Volume is good. Not so loud, but decent. Amoled screen is awesome. I think 16999 is for the screen only. I dont see any Cons: However, it has Stock Android with little changes which they say is Oxygen OS Overall, anyone looking for a phone with good Camera and looks, then go for OnePlus X.
1|Because your payment Method deduct double charges form my account for one Product. and the i didn't get that back yet.
3|Head set is missing..
5|Wonderful product..!!
3|Battery gets very hot
5|Happy with this phone
5|Super, nice good one.
1|Worst experience ever
5|One word.... THE BEST
4|Gud buy fast delivery
4|Damn good a phone...!
4|Super cool nice phone
5|Awswun device luvd it
5|Simple words the best
5|Amazing mobile used
5|Best cell by one plus
5|Amazing configuration
4|Damn good performance
5|no words its awesome.
4|Awesome..Worthable...
5|Very good and compact
5|Great phone under 20k
5|Value for money phone
5|Itz awesome...great..
5|Every penny is worth.
5|Worth of single penny
5|Super phone i love it
5|Really awesome .thank
5|akilkhan904@gmail.com
3|Phone was totally gud
5|Well worth the money!
1|heating up like mad. even for whatsapp only. heat is so much that i can iron my cloths. very disappointed by one plus.
5|Hey frds , Any body who want to buy this one plus use this invite IN76-CCC4-0117-C7B2 Thank you Vinayak
3|At first what strikes you is that you've a wanna be iPhone in your hand, the design is far from unique unlike the OPO, so basically it doesn't feel as good as the one plus one to hold and looks like ant other android off the shelf in the market. The screen no doubt is better, higher contrast ratios and pitch black. Sound quality is inferior. Hardware Capacitive navigation buttons do not light up. Memory is only 16GB, though there's a memory card slot, cost cutting is quite evident on the product unlike its predecessor. And yes, this thing runs on the Oxygen OS, which resembles the cyanogen mod initially, yet the differences become evident soon after initial use.
4|This phone is addictive! First and foremost, thanks to Amazon for continuously having such a fast delivery channel, you made my Diwali!! About the phone, it will give you a premium feeling the moment you hold it in your hand. As everybody else is saying, yes this is probably the best smartphone under 20K, given the trust one plus has garnered over the years, I doubt this should have any glitch. The camera quality is good, you have multiple options to customize the homescreens and buttons. They have also got a radio in it,so its cool on that end. The wave gesture tool to wake up the phone and check the notifications is also pretty good. Overall its a great phone for the price!
1|I got this delivered by Amazon before time. The product looks good and work well too, however I am having problem with syncing my existing google account..it just does not clear the verification stage. I have tried everything from reboot to reset to force stop the gmail app, etc. I am not able to connect to any google application. I have searched the net but there does not seem to be a solution available. The customer care sucks. The given number does not connect. I intend returning this product, in case I do not get a response to my email to the customer care and am unable to resolve the problem. As of now buying this product seems to be a wastage of good money.
4|Has great build quality, and really impressed that OnePlus hasn't loaded the phone with bloatware.!! I took away one star as it didn't come with earphone, and I think it is a 32 bit CPU. I am yet to start using it on a daily basis, but so far, I am impressed with display, speed, bluetooth, screencast and wireless performance. I was able to cast my screen onto my LG TV, without much difficulties. Couple took time to understand and recognize each other, but screencast did happen..!! In case you are looking for an invite code, use this: INB4-63C2-7173-9BE9. Please reply to the review, if you utilised the code. So that I can remove it from review.
3|Very good processors
2|Battery is very poor
5|I like it very much!
5|The best smartphone.
1|Very bad performance
5|Loved it... Awesome.
4|Goog but no earphone
5|powerfully beautiful
4|I am fully satisfied
5|Awesome budget phone
5|Powerfully Beautiful
5|Epic phone?????
5|VerY Good Product :)
5|Fantastic product!!!
2|worst user interface
5|very good.keep it up
4|Nice budget product.
5|Very good experience
5|IN64-D060-0894-182C
1|One of the worst products I ever bought on amazon. I don't understand what is the hype all about. 3GB ram and the phone lags. The phone heats up like an iron rod if you use it while charging. One of the worst phones I have used. But I dont have many options in this price range. The specifications are good only on paper but the perfomance is like an phone worth 8K. The Oxygen OS sucks like anything. Why is oneplus trying to force its customers to use this OS? The contacts sometimes shuffle automatically and some contacts have automatically duplicated. Never faced this problem in any other phone. If you have other options don't buy this phone. It sucks.
1|I am placed order on 10th and 12th Afternoon i received product and i am eager waiting for this. But disappointed a lot with Batter issue. because with out using for games, internet, photos, videos, and even not inserted SIM cards also, Battery draining like anything. for 2 hrs switched on battery drained from 90% to 40%. this is not at all acceptable and bit worried if i put sim cards not sure every hour i need to charge it., Guys i am returning it with out wasting any more time on this. Very Very disappointed with this product. Guys please think of it before buying this Phone.
5|I have been using 1+1. Now this. Good product. Good specs. Beautiful and elegant phone. Looks are impressive.
5|Amazon is amazing !! ... what a a prompt service , I received this order so fast that I got it on the same day I ordered :-) To talk about this phone -- wow!! this is simply a masterpiece.. One of my friend suggested me this phone and he said it ain't available in the outside market. At first I was pretty shocked about one plus marketing strategy. Then I realized after seeing the phone, what a technology they have used and i'm sure they simply did not want to copy their phone or simply allow it to be duplicated in any case. I had never seen such a cool and fabulous smartphone :-) pros: cool design super touch secure battery (just like apple products) nice storage area for sim & sd card super fast device overall a very good phone and worth buying it !!! cons: actually very less but there are few like -- no dual sim + sd card , little goof-up with internal storage , no earphone To talk about internal storage , the description said 16gig but when I checked the device I had only 11.5 gig... I wondered where the remaining gigs went ;-) However, I found out that the android lollipop version that this device has, will eat up lot of memory for it's OS itself , so ultimately over 4 gig would be lost and we land up getting little less than 12 gig and not even we get 12 gig. But that's ok, the way this device operates it is obvious that system memory need a lot of space within..
1|Got my much anticipated One Plus X today. Pretty excited with the UI viz partly attributable to the fact that I previously used KitKat device and this is LollyPop. Looks are good and phone is bright, clear and fast. So far so good, but the phone I received has hardware issue. It shows full network available but when there is any call (incoming/outgoing) the signal drops to zero and the call doesn't connect. This is horrible! Phone has primary purpose of calling and that is not working. I have requested a return and I hope the next shipment delivered will not be like this, otherwise I will be forced to opt for refund.
5|Design: 10/10 Display:10/10 Speaker: 10/8 Camera: 10/9 OS: 10/9 Performance: 10/10
5|If Amazon was a person I would hug him. What a delivery service. Loved it. Awesome device as well go for it
1|I bought it after seeing all the hype online. Hoping that it would be a good android phone. I was wrong. It shoots terrible video. Dropped frames like a toy camera, extremely jerky video. TERRIBLE! Photos and videos shot on the phone stores on the phone memory, no way to choose the SD card to save to. No single button to say move photos and videos to SD card like on some android phones. The earpiece speaker is not good. Sounds like a telephone. Oh wait, how did I forget, there is no photo gallery! OnePlus get these basic things right! Heard that these are the same issues on Oneplus 2 as well.
1|Before buying the phone please think twice. I am a victim of all these five start reviews. I bought the one plus x phone 5 days back, and now I am considering to return it. The problem started from day one, display is blurring, apps menu turns off automatically, and the numero uno is the battery problem. I charged the phone fully before I went to sleep. The following morning I saw battery has only 30% juice by 10 am. During this time the has not been used at all, just in stand by mode. By 11 am phone switched of by itself. Keep a safe distance form this product.
5|First of all, one of the best services I have ever seen in my life in regards to Amazons amazing delivery service. Booked it by 11PM and received the product by 7AM. About the phone Pros : 1. Package presentation was very good as always. 2. Mobile looks very handy and display is crystal charm. 3. Camera is very good and so the recording. Cons : 1. While doing initial setup, mobile could not able to complete the setup (internet related) until u skip the operation. 2. Could able to sense light heat near to the camera after the setup. Over all, phone is very good,
4|Phone was very good
5|Superb Phone ......
4|such a nice phone..
5|Simply great phone.
5|excellent product..
5|IND2-2C27-7C12-4E23
4|INBC-EA93-D579-1900
5|Worth a buy for 17k
4|No problem on phone
5|Wow nice smartphone
4|Any one want invite
5|very well,,,,,,,,,,
5|Quick and efficient
1|dont buy this phone
5|Nice phone to have.
1|i hate it bad phone
3|Camera is not good.
5|Amazing Smart Phone
5|Simply Fabulous :)
5|mobile is very nice
4|IN00-94C8-1375-9EDD
5|INEE-1C01-47BC-FDF7
5|Absolutely amazing.
5|IN6E-DE0E-444A-FD5D
4|IN52-F9C3-DAC8-66B7
5|IN1B-0111-C26A-5B8B
4|INAE-FAD6-A5C8-E110
4|IN5A-8375-847E-4BAD
5|INEA-83F5-0176-A65A
3|in3e-27ee-ef23-9c2f
5|IN71-6C65-2BBC-3180
5|Best bang for buck!
5|INBA-D4DF-CBCB-9A3F
4|Really awesome ....
5|Grate phone for 17k
5|INC3-052B-B02E-28BB
4|waiting for updates
5|Please share invitation for nagaraju.sunku49@Gmail.com or nagaraju.sunku75@Gmail.com Please Please
3|Fully packed mobile phone with loads of features. The best thing about the phone is the design, which gives you a premium feel. Apart from just a good looking phone it seriously shoots a good photographs. Pros: Looks and design Touch gestures Camera- photographs Optional sd slot/sim card slot no hanging issue till now-one month usage Dark/Black theme-good for eyes battery- one full day CONS: Bad video recording- due to less fps Slight heating issue-while overusing volume buttons are placed quite low (awkward) to be used in one hand
1|I don't know why people are going crazy over this phone. Major cons: 1. 2500 mah battery compared to 3000 mah battery of mi4 and one plus one. 2. Sdcard slot is hybrid. You can either use a sd card or another sim. Go for mi4 64 gb if you are looking for extra storage. Go for moto x or mi4i if you are not a power user and looking for dual sim phone. 3. Glass back. Dirt and fingerprint magnet. Fragile. Do I need to say more? 4. Launching a phone with Snapdragon 801 in late 2015? I thought one plus one was called flagship destroyer.
1|Only one SIM support if Memory Card used as to support extended storage. However Mobile is awsum
4|It's a nice mobile
4|Good smartphone...
5|Very nice product.
5|Excellent product.
5|Best phone ..
5|Sexy...worth 17 k.
5|very good product.
5|Just go for it !!!
4|Excellent Handset.
5|Really smart phone
4|Good but not super
4|Awesome phone.....
5|An amazing product
5|Awesome experience
5|Not up to the mark
5|Excellent Phone !!
5|Excellent Phone !!
5|This is nice phone
5|Phone are hanging
5|very good product.
4|very good product.
5|Awesome Phone !!!!
5|Happy with product
5|the most sexy look
5|Master piece......
5|Amazing product...
4|Value for money!!!
3|Hallow ABHIJEET153
5|Works like a charm
2|First of all i liked the mobile a lot because of its sleek design and Specs.But i had a very strange issue with this mobile.Mobile automatically resets (Restore factory settings) when i am running fast on a treadmill.There is no scope for the screen to be On while its in pocket as it has PIN.This happened twice for me and it automatically erases the complete data and boot up just as a new mobile.Please experiment the same with your One plus X in warranty period. Even Hardware Button option for resetting One plus X should ask for your options before it erases complete data.
2|Excellent phone but to my surprise this one plus set is not recognising sd card .no app is transferred to sd card.says no space .i have changed two or more but same issue.the same sd card works on other mobile.secondly oneplus atleast you should have installed a gallery..come on. ..thirdly excellent camera but very difficult to use..if you have to compete with apple and Samsung you need to support a good software..all can be ignored but what to do with no sd card detection. ..please friends check if this is a problem with my handset or a oneplus x shortcoming
5|First of all I must say good service by Amazon apart from their card swipe machine which failed on the time of swiping the card. You all noe about the specifications, only thing I noticed is initially the phone lag a little bit and some glitches while connecting to WiFi. I must say AMOLED is a superb experience. Nice gesture by oneplus in terms of giving screengaurd and transperent mobile cover. 3GB Ram works according to its number. Helps you to swipe as fast as you can between the apps I think this is the best phone which u can get in just 17k bucks.
2|So I bought the OnePlus X from Amazon. The phone initially looked decent. But soon it started giving issues like hung screen, lag between typing and display. Photo quality was good as such. But the phone overall had performance issues. One fine day, I got a "Fastboot" screen which had hung. After waiting for few hours i realized the only way to get the phone back on is by restarting. Thankfully all this happened within the first 7 days and I could return the phone back in time and ask for a refund. Given the performance I found it to be overpriced!
1|device is heatin up a lot while usin wifi/gps .. hav to take it to one plus service centre
1|Totally disappointed with my oneplusone. recently an update from cynogen12 to cynogen12.1, now it is hell. My oneplusone keeps restarting, Customer care support is useless. None is picking up the call. Even if u get it free, plz reject it. I enjoyed using oneplusone phone. But now I am totally frustrated with this phone. Junk Chinese phone. Dont go with these jokers 5 rank and useless stupid fancy idiot loose talk and buy any Chinese mobile.
5|Amazon was superb they delivered my order within one day ... One Plus X is simply superb phone with all features after checking the mobile options it has OTG support also ... battery life is awesome Display clarity simply mind blowing with full HD 441pix sound also simply loud and clear design is very very cool and comfortable in hand camera also very very nice that too selfies are awesome in this phone with 8mp fully happy with One Plus X my suggestion is to go for this mobile it has all feature ....
1|Not worth 17k at all. Useless phone. Help your self & get a better top of the line brand.
4|Here is an invite if anyone wants to use it..IN41-6938-4474-2C58..will expire in 48 Hrs..
1|1 ) We can't save app in memory card practically 11.65 GB phone. 2 ) Not able to update phone , after few minute process it is say UPDATE FAIL. 3 ) Service center at Ahmedabad ( Gujarat) say use old version we Dont have any update , they are not ready to solve any issue . 4 ) Amazon says please contact service center , service center says please contact call center , call center says nothing........ 5 ) phone hit like iron after 20 minute use of WIFI. Finally Dont go for this mobile as there is no one for service..
3|Mobile has high end configuration which is really worth the penny, But display screen is not strong . My friend bought One Plus X official back case which costed some 600 + bucks. Accidentally he dropped his mobile to the ground . Unfortunately the bottom charging area doesn't have protection in the official case and the display got shattered. When taken to official service centre he was advised to replace the screen with the hefty prize tag. Please be careful in selecting the mobile. Try to consider the overall build quality as well.
4|superb mobile....
5|Excellent product
5|Its a great phone
5|Just awesome.....
5|innovative design
5|Perfect for me...
4|Very good product
5|Simply a beauty..
5|Fantastic product
5|Worth the price!!
5|Classy cell phone
4|An excellent fone
3|Battery not good.
4|Good Performance.
5|A good product...
5|It's a good phone
5|Best phone ever!!
5|Simple and superb
4|4 star for Design
4|Nice n cuite look
5|I have the invite
5|Simply Loved it..
5|Love this mobile.
5|Never Ever Settle
5|Awesome phone ?
5|Excellent product
5|Anyone interested in invite? Whatsapp number is 9988886043. Only one invite available.
1|I have used my one plus x for one month now replaced it once but still not satisfied with the performance of the hand set. Phone software is not up to the mark, I would rather say full of bugs. Every now and then my phone starts to blink I mean screen gets on and off mode and hand set becomes non responsive. Wanted to change the phone but amazons 30 days are off and now stuck with it. from last one month my phone is at service center no response. my verdict DO NOT BUY THIS ONE PLUS X NO DIFFERENT THEN OTHER CHINESE LOW GRADE PRODUCTS.
2|Back panel is glass.. :( one drop and double the expense for repair.. :(
1|Screen turns into dark pink spots, no near by servicing center have to travel 300 kms
1|The phone was a defective unit as it was lagging and Stuttering a lot.
4|I think the set is good but not fully satisfied with the phone the things I got disappointed with the simple tray we can only put 1sim and a memory card or 2 sims no memory card this issue make me feel bad nd out of 16gb internal memory only 10gb is available for storage which is very less compared to other one plus mobiles no screen guards given nd also not available in amazon nd it's nt water resistant other things r gud clarity, camera, sound clarity is gud bt nt great overall it's gud phone
3|The mobile was awesome and the delivery is also superb. But a small problem. Yesterday I opened the box because this item was purchased for gifting purpose bt in this box the charging Data cable was not working. How can I replace my data cable.
5|Hi, after reviewing I purchased this product O3 plus skin lightening cream as well as night cream its hardly 18 days .it's working excellent .I was little scared to use this product cos I had a deep pigmentation n I have gone to dermatologist many times n I have spent thousands of rupees. Even I did yellow peeling for two times it did not work out. At last I got this product its working nicely every day I am checking my face but gradually its decreasing very good cream I would say thanks for all the reviews.
4|Phone looks amazing.. Feels amazing... Battery life is just average... Micro SD card not recognized it's a software issue.... Performance is ok some games like asphalt 8 and mortal kombat x show frame drops bit its is a software issue as the snapdragon 801 is adequate to handle such games... Waiting for software update to fix glitches and gaming performance... And waiting for marshmallow update... Otherwise phone is good for prices battery is not a priority go for it.. If it 8s go for the moto x play ..
4|It's awesome and stylish... Most of the reviews focus about the positives of this device.The build quality of this phone is great and i don't experience any heating issues! The battery backup is really good. But yet this mobile is laggy in terms of even basic3d-gaming(including subway surfers) and video playback! Also there's issue with using SD-card on this phone and connecting it to the PC. Overall i would say that a hell lot of software optimisations are required to make this from a good to a great phone.
5|It's really good
5|Sososoooooo good
5|Nice Phone......
4|Nice&sexy mobile
5|Wow amazing nice
5|Clear cut winner
5|Excellent mobile
5|Very nice mobile
5|Awesome phone...
5|No issues at all
4|Good performance
4|Excellent phone.
5|Amazing phone !!
5|Value for money!
5|Excellent phone.
5|Awesome phone...
5|Excellent device
5|Beauty vd brains
5|I love thz phone
4|nice mobile.....
5|Good and best...
5|Amazing product.
5|I want to buy it
5|Awesome hardware
5|Classy phone!:-)
5|Amazing phone!!!
5|I want an invite
5|Very super phone
5|Awesome features
2|Mobail is OK...but This mobail no Call recording options That's is bad
1|Hello , There is many issue i am facing with the HAND SET. 1 Device is getting very hot while charging and also some time (when its is not charging). 2 Handset display light is getting low every time without and doing any thing and it get brighter suddenly even the diplay light setting is ZERO, I GUESS THE HAND SET I FAULTY. 3 Camera performance is very bad.. 3 Lot of basic features are missing in the handset. Pls help out .. and give the solution ASAP.
5|It's a very good mobile.. I am using this mobile from past one week, the hasn't got any heating problem (used WiFi for 3 to 5 continuous hours) but hasn't checked with mobile internet. Free accessories screen guard and Mobile case are most useful. The OS is good but the customization options are limited. The mobile hasn't got hung up any time and runs very smoothly. The screen quality is very good. Charging is also relatively fast compared to other mobiles I have used. Worth buying this mobile.
1|Ordered on 16, delivered on 17th, returning back on 18th. Rear Camera is bad, its very hazy and blur, checked if any screen protector or film obstructing it, but saw none. I have asked for a replacement, but now considering for refund reading all the critical 1 & 2 star reviews as problems are more repeated. Clear case of no Quality Checks. This earns bad reputation both to Amazon and 1 + X Not used much of the other features, but look wise, very stylish and no battery issues for me.
5|Any 1need invite I have 1in spare..for free mail me Saurabh.singh1992@gmail.com
5|Looks very good and nice.delivered on time.fully satisfied by amazon delivery.
1|Very very worst product and not worthy for its cost. Nothing special for the cost. 1. Don't know actually it is 3GB RAM because of performance 2. Heating problem for all the apps, games, Wifi, 3G data use 3. Play store is displaying some error code (this problem also faced by one of my friend) 4. Battery life is also not good My personal and humble request to all the customers who are all thinking about to buy OnePlus X, Please dont buy this product.
2|When I got this phone I was very excited and in first look phone was very looking however on the other hand sometimes it is very difficult to hold it in hand screen of the phone is very good camera is OK not as good as mi4 had one thing which I feel very pathetic abt it as u all know its a stock Android phone so each and every thing u want to do with this phone u need to download app from the play store....and ui o the phone is very bad and the default apps of the phone omg very poor
5|Very happy with Amazon's service. Excellent phone and worth every penny.
5|I am glad and so happy that I am the fortunate person to own this beautiful power packed phone. Waiting for this phone and got fortunate to order this on the very first date of its launch. Will update this review later after getting my hands dirty on this phone, till now I am still amazed by the looks and performance of this phone at such a lower price as compared to its competitors. It must be a blow on the face of Moto g. Go for it guys without thinking, you gonna admire it
1|Very disappointed. Had read great reviews but was shocked to find out that the phone lags so much. The phone is painfully slow, which comes as a shock as people were raving over the speed and on how smooth it was to use. This the second time I have faced a similar problem with a one plus phone. Maybe the problem was in the set delivered to me. Switching from camera to home screen takes nearly 5 seconds which gets so irritating. Milti talking is a nightmare. Returning it.
5|Best on 17000/--- if any one need invite contact me at cadpkgupta@gmail.com
3|The quality of the phone is good as expected...but there are some softwareand hardware issues. The option for flash doesn't show in the default camera app. The SD card storage is not showing in the default file manager. I'm so sad day there is not backlight options for the capacitive touch buttons. If you are looking for a 5" phones under 20k go for oneplus x. And these minor issues can be solved with a software update except backlight problem of capacitive buttons.
5|Works perfectly
5|Excellent phone
4|Best in class!!
5|Awesome product
5|Awesome product
4|Excellent phone
4|Ok for the cost
5|Excellent phone
5|Value for money
5|Very Good Phone
3|Value for money
2|Hanging problem
5|Excellent phone
5|Awesome it is?
5|Excellent phone
5|Worth the money
5|excellent phone
4|Excellent phone
3|Not satisfied..
5|Very good phone
5|Awsome Phone !!
5|Excellent phone
5|just go for it!
5|Its really good
4|Very Good phone
4|Value for money
5|Splendid phone
5|So far so good.
5|equal to iphone
4|very good phone
5|Amazing product
5|Awesome product
2|The phone is la
5|Value for money
5|Amazing phone..
5|Loved the Model
5|Very Nice phone
5|Very nice phone
5|Good one to buy
5|Excellent phone
5|Awesome product
5|very gud mobile
5|Value for money
4|Worth for money
4|Awesome mobile.
5|EXCELLENT PHONE
5|Excellent phone
5|Very good phone
5|Simply Awesome!
5|good good phone
1|This is the worst mobile I had very bought. Even for 2min of YouTube streaming or playing even subwaysurfers for 5min..the phone is getting heated like fry pan.we don't need roomheaters in winter when we have this phone.I immediately returned the phone..A very good refund policy from Amazon..luv your service.I suggest strongly not to buy this oneplusx.
1|Phone gets extremely heated even on regular usage. When I say over heating I don't mean warm or just heated. Surely it's not because of any external app as well. Camera is awful in low light. Return window of product is just 10 days so the window will close even before you realize the issue... Amazon sucks in this aspect for this product. I wish I could get a replacement! Heard a lot about amazon 's customer centric service but never received one!!
5|I hv one plus x invite code anyone intrested whats app me on 7588971353
3|Not at par with the hype that was created around the product launch. Even file explorer/launcher has to be installed from a TP. - Design is good - Processor is good - Battery back up is just Ok - Camera is a disappointment ( Used Samsung S2 before & its 8MP camera was better than this) - Don't understand how Oneplus is considered low cost phone as per performance, pretty sure there are better phones in this price range
5|Free Invite Giveaway For The X INCE-5FE1-5883-20D2 Claim within 24hrs.
4|One plus x is the best android phone with this price range.., Pros: - 8 MP front cam and good 13 rear cam - 3GB RAM with quad core makes it much faster. - Battery lasts longer - Elegant display with metallic finish, little slippery though. - FM Radio Cons: - Still basic versions of Oxygen OS gives you very little freedom reading files, editing picture and moving apps to SD without supporting apps.
4|i have got this product for rs16999-10%cashback i.e rs 15300 you can also buy from cashkaro and save thousands over Internet shopping(amazon, myntra, jabong, snapdeal&many more)and an unbelievable cash back of 20%on American swan's site . you may get extra 100rs credit if you join with the following link http://cashkaro.com/r=119426 just copy the link in your browser's address bar and enjoy great savings.
5|Good product..
1|Waste of money
4|camera is awsm
5|Good phone :-)
4|Awesome mobile
5|Just excellent
5|Good and handy
1|Worst mobile ever used. Was fascinated by its looks. But it has got only looks. Nothing inside. Poorest battery. Have started hanging wid no games, or heavy app.
4|very good cell
5|Premium finish
5|Love the Phone
5|Simply superb!
4|I am impressed
5|Awesome mobile
5|So far so good
4|keep open sale
5|Superb phone!!
5|Awesome phone.
5|Awesome mobile
5|Awesome device
5|awesome phone!
5|Stylist mobile
5|Best phone....
5|overall superb
5|Excellent good
5|Oneplus rocks.
5|Awesome mobile
5|Awesome mobile
5|Amazing superb
5|Awesome phone!
5|Awesome camera
5|Awesome device
5|Have an invite
5|I have an extra invite. Contact me @ 9803550333 to buy it for 1000'
4|Phone was as described. Beautiful design and performance. Battery lasts for a day and sometimes less when you're a heavy user such as myself. This is is a concern when it happens out of the box. There is bound to be degradation after some months of use. Other than that I also find the phone 'hangs' sometimes and I have to switch it on and off to get this woken up. This seems to have stopped after the OxygenOS upgrade.
5|Phone is great ! i have extra invite. mail to apurva.hc@gmail.com
3|The most beautifully designed iPhone look alike.Display is bright and readable in sun light.Colors are on warmer side.Tends to heat up even when simply browsing,Very good feature for winters. Charging is very slow takes about 5 hrs.Battery backup is mediocre. Have to charge twice a day for normal usage.Camera is average by today's standards. Always go with a phone with at least 3100mah to avoid frustration.
4|I AM NOT ABLE TO TRANSFER MY APP TO SD CARD, CAN ANY ONE HELP ME
4|I have an invite for oneplus x. If anyone needs it let me know.
2|Phone features are very good but I faced problems in phone even after replacement. I was using 2 SIM card and faced problem while making calls.Phone was taking SIM1 only even if I dialed via SIM2.When I got replacement,after 4-5 days I face problem while making calls,Other party was not able to hear my voice but when I tried via speaker it was working fine.Finally I returned the phone to Amazon
1|your phone S**K first 10 days no problem and then WIFI does not work. heating problem, fully charged battery ends up in 2 hrs....and after 10 days the site does not allow me to return the handset back..... I just brought the handset on 2-Jan'16..and faced a lot with this handset.... it really S**K.. when you send around 17K and get a damaged handset... will NEVER EVER TRUST ON this site again......
5|Great mobile.
5|Very nice....
5|Nice phone!!!
2|ok ok product
5|Excellent mob
5|Great product
5|Excellent one
5|Amazing phone
5|Awesome phone
4|Okay, great !
4|Amazing phone
5|Excellent phn
4|Hve and sweet
2|Not satisfied
5|Awesome Phone
5|AweSome...!!!
5|Awesome phone
5|Best in class
5|Awesome phone
5|Its too good,
3|Average phone
4|Really good!!
4|very good 1+X
4|awesome phone
5|Nice Phone...
5|Awesome phone
5|Amazing phone
5|Awsome to use
4|Awesome phone
5|Awesome phone
5|great product
1|bad producate
1|battery issue
4|good phone...
4|Amazing phone
5|Awesome phone
4|Awesome phone
5|Awesome phone
5|awesome phone
5|Awesome phone
5|GOOD PRODUCT.
5|Amazing phone
3|over all good
4|Amazing phone
5|Super phone..
5|Superb phone.
5|Awesome piece
3|Heating issue
5|GOOD PRODUCT
5|simply superb
5|Worthy deal..
5|awsome mobile
1|DONT BUY! Problems observed in 18 days of usage: 1) Over heating while surfing normal stuff. 2) Heating while charging 3) Call drops are too frequent [It isnt a signal error - I checked with my other number] 4) Phone suddenly stopped charging. 5) Right buttons - Volume and Power buttons sometimes stop working! Made a wrong decision. Looks really good but performance kills the charm.
2|even 4k getting other phone. application .model all are bore
3|Camera flash not showing while taking pictures in one plus x
1|From the 3rd day after purchase it has become an irritating thing from hang to net issue ....switching from WiFi to mobile data isa nightmare.. You have to switch off d phone When you want to time any address in chrome cursor is no where available to type or selection... N customer service is so poor that they R asking me from where you purchased n contact this n contact that ....
5|the best phone under 20k certainly no lags superb camera glass on the back gives a stunning look and also the amoled screen brings out the best while watching videos if u are a gamer this phone with 3 gb ram is the best i am already playing both fifa 15 &16 both games work perfect without lagg also the sd card problem is cleared in the recent update good job team One Plus Hats off!!
1|i love this phone when i perches, now i requested for return because i am not able to move my apps and picture to SD card they have some Software issue and some other os issue as well related to time you can find out in what's app . i read on one plus side also lot of people mention for same. other wise phone is awesome i am not able to find replacement of this phone in same cost.
1|I have used this phone for close to one and a half month and go found pretty much inconvenience with performance. The only plus point with one plus X is it's looks, coming to performance the phone really hangs a lot, also heats up a lot with not so good battery backup with almost 2500mAh. Camera performs good with natural daylight and comparatively bad in the artificial lights.
1|Good in ten days only phone gets heat very soon & hang .
4|This phone is good. Received in time from Amazon. Only there are few bugs such as it does not recognise SD card. If we ignore all these things then this phone is very good. Very good looking phone with very reasonable features for average user. If one is looking for very good camera then this phone is big disappointment. So if you are camera lover don't purchase this phone.
4|Amazon simply superb,delivered within a day. * Design top notch. * Display is simply superb. one of the best display I ever met * Hybrid slot is a good move from one plus * No lag yet found * No bloatware * camera is decent. * Able to play Asphalt,Over kill,subway surfer without hiccups * Invite system is a bit complex part overall!!!
5|got delivered before the expected date,if I talk about the product the list is really long camera quality is just awesome -specially front cam sound quality is amazing in phone speaker ( keep in mind that there are two speakers ,actually the second one is not speaker its mic ?) performance is amazing and looks are just amazing....worth buying, go for it ?
4|overall the phone is very impressive and the glass back really gives a rich and appealing impression. The only thing i felt as a con in this piece is when you insert your normal 3.5mm jack earphone/headphone, it doesn't fit into the point given in the phone. The jack is popped out and doesn't fit in it. If anybody have any information regarding that, please let me know.
5|Awesome product. Pros: Good battery backup 9/10 Awesome CAM 10/10 both front and back RAM 3GB work perfect 16Gb Rom in that 10.6Gb can be used Sound clarity awesome Customization Awesome 10/10 Charging tym around 2hr 20min on screen CONS: No quick charge option Handling must be careful Bcz both sides gorilla glass 3
3|Though u cant get this awesum design in 17k salute to oneplus...the oxygen OS is crap even basic games like subway surfers is lagging allottt..i googled it out it says the processor is underclocked...i request oneplus team to provide a good software update to solve these stupid bugs cuz snapdragon 801 is a very good processor....please provide software update ASAP.....
1|The rear camera is defective and all photos are blurred.
5|Only plus one plus one has compared to X is the increased battery a bigger screen.. But battery life is good in one plus x as I'm getting 4 and half hours of screen on time,which gets me easily through the day and 5 inch feels more comfortable in the hand for me compared to one plus one's 5.5. Above all the AMOLED display on one plus X is simply mind blowing..
4|Good product
4|Simply super
5|Superb phone
5|Excellent...
5|a fine piece
5|Great buy :)
5|Good product
5|good prodect
5|Awesome look
3|Average.....
5|Nice mobile.
5|Good reponse
4|Near perfect
5|Excellent!!!
5|Superb phone
5|Great phone.
5|V good ohone
5|Superb phone
5|working good
4|Good product
5|Excellent!!!
4|Great produc
5|cool product
4|Good product
4|Good product
5|It's to good
4|Nice Product
3|Good product
5|Having worth
5|Simply good.
5|Good product
5|Working fine
5|Superb phone
5|Nice product
4|Good product
5|Good product
5|I lykd it...
5|Otg suported
5|Im loving it
5|Awesome ....
5|One must buy
5|Great phone.
5|Superb phone
5|Go for it :3
4|Just amazing
5|looking good
2|Not a good product. They neglected quality. I ordered it, the charger was defective. Amazon replaced it. In the next one Bluetooth was not working. The design although blindly copied from iPhone, has a serious flaw, the power button is in the side and while you hold it to your ear and talk hand touches the power button and the phone goes into shutdown.
2|Not Worth I migrated from One Plue One to One Plus X. My Vote for One Plus One Cons 1) Oxygen OS horrible. Not User friendly. 2) Battery discharges Pros 1) Camera quality I still feel One plus one is better in all aspect hardware and software. My vote to "One Plus One"
3|Phone is not living upto the hype as the one plus one did. It heats up pretty quickly, even with just YouTube usage. If you are into taking pictures/selfies don't bother about this phone, Camera is significantly bad. Having said all of that the performance is good, have not had phone hanging issues so far. OK type phone, not a must buy.
2|Everything is okay other than rear camera. When I m opening rear camera, it seems that a layer/cover is placed on the rear camera. But in real I could not see any layer. I can't understand whether the camera has a layer over it or there is a problem with camera. Should I return the product? If there is a problem then give me the solution
1|Very Bad to I have taken One Plus X. Now please don't take Oneplus X . many negative things like:- Very Poor Battery backup. Mobile is heating after few minutes use. Only we can put sim or Sd card ( haven't give another slots for SIM. Great with Amazon how deliver almost after 6-7 day , while Flipcart deliver in two days.
3|Till now running smooth... But one issue it didn't able to play high graphics games such as The Amazing Spiderman 2..in high grpx..but playing fifa16 smoothly....and battery is not much promising... n I main problem...today which playing game ..it got heated up about 50°C...which is very bad...I night this phone for gaming purpose only....
4|01)Design (10/10) 02)Light weight (9.5/10) 03)Good camera (7/10) 04)Stock Android experience (8/10) 05)New updates on oxygen (9/10) 06)Battery (6/10) 07)Amoled screen (9.5/10) 08)Connectivity (8/10) 09)Customer support (7/10) 10)Storage (8/10) 11)Invite system (8/10) 12)Rarity (9/10)
2|I received it yesterday and first look definitely impress u. However, i returned it because of slot deficit that is, we can not use 3 cards(2 sim and memory card) at same time as it provided only one slot for both 2nd sim and memory card so we need to use it in either option. That's it!! Otherwise its good product. Thanks
1|Please don't buy this item which lacks after sales service and not a quality product. I couldnt use this phone in bangalore to attend the call or make call. Receiver is poor and internal quality is bad and not smooth in working Getting lot of stuck during browsing or getting a call or multitasking To be frank waste of buying
5|Im literally amazed to see the performance of this phone at this price range. I have a OnePlus One also which also a flagship killer and this one too doesn't stay far behind. Touch is snappy and good and OxyOS is okay in performance(still work been done on it) with average battery life. You should definitely want to buy this phone.
2|I had ordered this one for one of my friend and I really don't think this is worth for money. What is the need of paying so high for a mediocre spec mobile when u get lot of other options. I am also frequently getting invites for oneplus 2 & X. I think the sales are down. If anyone needs invite please contact me @ rahsad@ymail.com.
1|I star to post review Worst phone ever build
5|This is a very beautiful phone for 17K with very good features. This is easily one of the best looking phone out there. It is slimmer than the S6. The Oxygen OS has some cool gestures and short cut built in. Amazon delivery was very impressive, ordered the phone on Friday and received it on Sunday. Thank you Amazon and One Plus
1|Camera of this phone is too slow. You cannot take pictures if the person is even laughing. The microphone does not work in speaker mode in few apps like hangouts. The colors are too saturated and bright. The sound is loud but not too clear and sharp. I would rate 1 for camera. It's really making it very difficult to take pics.
1|This Phone has lot of bugs! Not worth the money.
3|Looks Good.
4|Great phone
5|Very googd.
5|Excellent!!
5|Excellent .
5|Osaam phone
5|worth it ..
5|loved it...
1|Worst phone
5|Great phone
5|Nice phone.
5|Awesome buy
5|Great phone
5|Vimal khunt
5|Super phone
5|Great phone
4|Nice mobile
5|Good phone.
5|excellent!!
5|Nice one...
4|Nice phone.
1|bad servies
4|Great Phone
4|Nice phone.
1|Lot of bugs
5|Great phone
5|Great phone
5|Its awesome
5|great phone
5|Great Phone
5|Good phone.
5|Nice mobile
5|Nice phone
5|Best mobile
5|Free invite
4|Very Good!!
5|Good Mobile
5|supar phone
4|Love to use
4|GOOD MOBILE
4|Awesome One
3|Need loads of improvement.... Phone is superb in its price range... There are a few short comings in this phone... Camera function is basic.. No gallery... Move to or copy to missing... Grey scale or black n white mode in camera missing... On the whole nice phone minus a few short comings... Value for money!!!!
4|I have an invite me at agnesh24.kumar@gmail.com
1|Returned it back as I found some heating issues
4|IN46-D4FB-B337-8F6A invite for one plus x enjoy
1|One plus x front cam is better then back camera, so back camera clarity is less then 5 Mp. Software also very poooor performance some times even contact searching also took several minutes. While using video camera device is over heated and applications also hangout so finally China phones are better then one plus x
5|I was looking 4 an invite but every1 wanted to take a dig fr handing over one .. One punk askd me fr 2.5 K !! Finally a guy just mailed me one without bating single eye . so whoesver is in deperate need of invite ,stick to comments fr a while n sme humble fella just gonna give it to u. Faith in humanity restored /\
4|Good phone with decent specifications as described. the battery should have been more seeing the usual requirement of people. the build quality, amoled screen and front camera are good. the back camera and the speakers are decent but could have been better. overall decent phone to buy at the price.
1|phone is getting hang ! Not worth buying.
4|Got a invite. The code is INBB-BE96-C64B-1378.
1|Think before you BUY !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Only looks wise the phone is good. 1. If you compare this phone with One Plus One & Two its nothing in their comparision because the battery backup is bulls*** it drains so fast that you can even use it for a single day, 2. Also surprising this phone don't have a 'GALLERY' Option which is more surprising how One plus have thought giving a phone without gallery. 3. Comparing Camera with 1+1 and 1+2 the camera quality and the picture quality is very bad :( you can't even take a good selfie with 8 MP front camera and you don't have an option for editing the camera pixels. 4. No Power saving option 5. Cannot transfer Data from Phone to SD Card. Instead of buying 1 + X, Buy 1+1 or 1+2 So hope this review helps you. Thanks !!
5|The highlight of the phone is his unique design with a touch of class...the phone looks premium....I have 3 invitations to be shared and is valid till 26th Nov,2015...please use them before 26th Nov.... 1.IN0E-A074-CAFD-A77E 2.INEF-8CE7-F744-7BFC 3.INFA-D905-03E2-A08D Good luck
2|1. Nano sim(can't interchangeable with other phones) 2. Cant use dual sim with memory card at a time. 3. Heating problem. things which are bothering me after i bought this. Above are all basic things even though it has glass finishing, less weight, good UI, high end RAM wont satisfy end user.
1|The phone reboots at least 3 or 4 times a day
5|Awsome phone. Whatsapp 8943780282 for invites
1|I have received an invite through SMS but when I am trying to claim it every time I get the message as invalid username and password.. Even created the account again but same message ... Seems like it is a joke ... When I try and use the invite here I get the message it is not activated yet ... Crazy
2|I am not happy with the product. It is not reach my exception level. 1. battery backup is very low. 2. Phone is heating issue. 3. I can not use two sim with memory card. 4. Phone is hanging 5. Camera is poor....compare to one plus 2. Better to buy other brand product
5|I have an invite. cogitativedinesh@gmail.com
5|You can use this invites IN67-4E4F-709A-A6D5
1|I have bought one plus x very enthusiastic but it breaks everthing within 2 days usage of this product. 1.Software issues 2.Camera is not working as expected 3.Contacts arrangements issue 4. Lagging with functionality Never buy one plus x. Try with some other mobiles.
2|Really didn't like the UI experience of Vanilla OS. No complaints on the hardware though. Comparison of UI with Samsung phones. Although Samsung UI lags after a while, the customized options present on the older Jelly Bean are better than the Vanilla OS of Lollipop. The above are my personal views.
5|Hi friends, I am waiting for this mobile for almost a month, fortunately I got it on 5th Nov. By looks n battery life, smoothness, camera, .... No one can beat this mobile on that price. But still I m waiting for the marshmallow based oxygen os.. I will give 5 out of 5 for this price.....
5|For invite mail to curtis89carter@gmail.com
5|I cant say anything than my heading, because waiting from last 3 days for the invite... Reviews & comments will share you later after I get a chance to buy it. any one help me if you have an invite for the same to my mail ID: jeevank2006@gmail.com. Thanks a lot
1|Pros: Slim, handy good looking. Cons: Rear camera is very bad one, Oxygen is in infent stage, number of general options of andrard is was suppressed, cal recording feature removed. Final word: unless they give original android OS with all features "DO NOT BUY"
3|Good in looks, but lack of features ,camera l Is good but have lots of noice in it, battery life is good as per its is 2500 mah, have lots of bugs in it , no sim detection,no equaliser, no clarity in speakers, hanging while switched to airplane mode,other wise its a good phone in budget.
2|I bought an OPX couple of weeks back and its not worth the value. Disappointing battery backup and inability to move/save apps to SD card. In OPX forum they had committed to roll out a fix in a weeks time, but no sign of any update yet. and almost every other owner is facing the same issue.
4|I got the product on promise time. Thanks Amazon for the on time delivery. About the phone its good one. good functions but it will take time to understand becz its little different. Battery life is okay type, goes only one day. company should improve this. Phone performance is superb.
1|Heating issue Battery backup not good
5|Good phone
5|Nice phone
5|Nice phone
5|its best !
4|Good phone
5|I love it.
5|Good phone
5|Excellent.
5|I loved it
5|Good Phone
1|It's hyped
5|Nice phone
4|Good phone
4|Nice phone
4|nice phone
4|good phone
5|Best phone
5|Good phone
3|Phone lags
5|Nice Phone
5|Fabulous ?
5|NICE PHONE
5|Best phone
4|very good.
5|Loved it..
5|Good phone
5|It's class
5|Nice phone
4|nice phone
5|awesome!!!
5|Betterment
5|Nice phone
4|Good phone
5|One plus x
4|Nice Phone
4|good phone
4|Goodmobile
5|Very happy
5|Nice phone
5|good phone
5|good phone
5|Good Phone
5|Good phone
4|Good phone
5|Awsm phone
5|Nice phone
5|good phone
5|nice phone
5|Good phone
5|Best phone
1|I have high expectations but this phone doesn't even suitable for basic calling and receive function... How it's software perceive numbers is beyond imagination i.e you are calling someone and connect someone... There is also some hardware issues.... Do read reviews about hardware before
5|Just an awesome product... Amazon delivery thumbs up... I didn't order for one day delivery as it was not available that time. I ordered the phone yesterday morning and today morning I got the phone ... Really amazing ... The camera is super awesome nd the build look nd feel is great
2|Brilliant specs, lame in practicle use. One plus knew the drawback of glass back and hence shipped cover with it. Whats the use of a piece in covers. Camera is lame, heating problems were sorted by clocking down the processing through updates, whats the use of the processor then?
1|Battery is worst. Doesn't even last for a day. Goes down around 30% in idle time at nights. Performance is also not really good as per the specs. There was some lag while playing games. Camera doesn't met expectations. I would like thank Amazon for refunding my amount.
5|Trust me guys it is better than Oneplus2
5|INA8-5596-A93F-EBB4 avtive invite use it
5|Update: Free Invites. http://onepl.us/INAC-5255-0DE4-4248 http://onepl.us/IN97-AC62-57F3-D630 http://onepl.us/IN97-AC62-57F3-D630 Excellent phone. Just go for it. I have an extra invite, its already claimed, just use the code to buy the phone. (47 hrs left) INE7-DD6B-C8A8-6F78
1|Shocking to have this product. With such a high expectation & specifications ...ONE PLUS X is really disappointing. Based on reputation of ONE PLUS SERIES, i ordered newly launched ONE PLUS X. Got delivery in 3 days but phone is total disaster. Great outer looks , but inside its totally dark and does'nt meet any specification as advertised by the company. 13MP rear camera and 8 MP selfie camera gives in real a quality poor like old days VGA camera.User interface is such a dark dat u will feel sorry all the time. its being only 2days using ONE PLUS X , phone has started hanging. Totally waste of hard earned money. its not a flagship killer ....its customer killer.
4|Here's the Invite - INA5-383C-2491-777D
5|It is as good as was promised. This I conclude from my time using it. I have not used it for long. But still, till now its performance is what I expected it to be... maybe a little better. Though I would really want a more sturdy cover for it to become available.
1|One plus doesn't support GUJARATI fonts: ( if I had known this I wouldn't buy this phone. For me its disappointment as I gifted this phone to my father and he uses Gujarati fonts very often. I raised the querry to one plus technical team also. Let's hope for the best
1|The phone looks good but won't even last for 12 hrs with one full charge. I am a moderate user checking Whatsapp, FB and other apps once in a while, no gaming, screen on time ~ 30-40 mins in a day, receiving hardly 2-3 calls a day, always connected to WiFi only.
4|Friends, I got this phone few days back, so far comfortable to use, amazing display. Looks worth for the cost. Lets watch for the performance. Please do not buy any cover and screen guard as they come with the mobile, unless you want buy any premium accessories.
1|Not satisfied coz in one day use usb cable stopped working within oneday needs replacement nxt coming to phone it has speaker problem with it and nxt i complaint a return and replacement nxt phone gets very heated when i play world cricket campionship2 very heated
1|The worst experience.........one plus is out to fleece indian consumer with a substandard device that looks good....No way you can resolve a complaint........... Please buy anything but oneplus phones its a waste of money and a plan by the company to fleece.
1|This is highly stupid that we have to wait for invite. I needed a phone urgently and thought of buying this. But because of the stupid marketing strategy, i am not able to buy. I dont need it now. Thanks. Seems like you people dont have enough phones to sell
1|Not satisfied, doesn't pick network anywhere with my airtel sim or any other network. Tried returning it but the date to return had passed. Now I have to live with a phone that looks awesome, takes good photos but I can't make any call. Rupees 16999 wasted.
4|I specially purchase this phone for my DOMO nHance VR7.Pretty good headset its just unbelievable such phone can give 3D effect just places the phone and enjoy the 3D experience.If one purchase phone don't forget to purchase DOMO VR headset its truly amazing
3|The phone is good... But it has some cons.. The 2 speakers are just for show only the left one works.. There is no flash message if there is any deduction in the phone balance, didn't get any option to on that..also micro SD or 2nd Sim option is not good..
3|Too good.
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|LOVING IT
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|very good
5|Excellent
5|Satisfied
5|Very good
5|IN2B-28AA-D3EC-A3CF 4 days to go
4|Very good
5|excellent
4|I Like it
5|Excellent
4|Wonderful
5|Vari good
5|Thumbs up
5|Very good
4|i love it
5|Fantastic
5|Very nice
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|excellent
5|Awesome..
5|Excellent
5|excellent
4|very nice
5|Very good
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Lvly phne
5|Very good
5|Excellent
4|Good one!
5|Very good
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Go for it
5|I like it
5|Very good
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
4|Very good
5|Verey.god
5|Excellent
5|Just buy.
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
5|excellent
5|Excellent
5|BRILLIANT
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|very good
1|Only 4 hrs battery backup..... Waste
5|Awesome Product. Some Active oneplus X invite valid for 48hrs IN8D-3E79-D216-6003 IN78-5CE8-CC21-69CC INA0-35AB-5698-A3C7 INF5-F643-8726-9EEC INDF-77F2-A2C7-A69E I have Oneplus X few invites contact me for invite at shyamsunderyouareawesome@gmail.com
1|SHORT ADVICE - do not buy this phone. Update 12/24/15 - I have given my phone for servicing. This is with a 3rd party company that Oneplus has hired named as Regenersis. The service in the place was horrible to say the atleast, many people were coming there with issues on oneplus phones. They have no clue when my phone will be fixed. Really regretting the decision of buying this phone for 17k when there were much better options. My advice dont buy this phone and suffer like me. I am just going to focus on the performance I am seeing in this phone. This review is not for amazon. It is for Oneplus X phone only. Here are the issues I have found after using the phone for 1 month: 1) Phone gets heated up badly and even worse after the charge. 2) Mediocre battery performance for this range of smart phones. I am getting max 5-7 hours of full charge. 3) Here is the worst problem that many people are having with this phone. After the oxygen updates, phone has become so unstable, that it will die down in between phone calls, or when you are playing any games. This happens at least 10 times in a day depending on your usage. The only way to revivce the phone is to connect back to the wall charger and restart the phone. If you try to restart without charger inside, it will not boot up. When I did a quick google search on "oneplusx reboot optimizing apps", I found that 1000's of people are having this problem. Some amateur programming is causing this issue. So, I would not recommend this phone to anybody as I did not find anything special in this phone which is not there in other smart phones in this price range. "MOTOROLA - YOU SCREWED UP BIG TIME" this time..
1|I bought this phone with lots of expectations due to the hype it had. But to my disappointment, the performance is so poor that I just returned this phone and got refunded. Hats off to Amazon in prompt delivery as well as refund. As always Amazon is the best. Here are my observations abt the phone: Pros: Very nice packing So stylish and the ideal size to be comfortably used with one hand. Hardware feels robust with glossy back Cons: Nothing special about this phone except buggy behaviour Camera is not getting flash to take photos. Flash available only for taking videos. So photos indoor are below average and in daylight it's above average. External memory card is not working if I use a Card more than 16 GB. 64 GB card just did not work. There is no way to set default memory to external storage or no option to unmount the card. You have to copy every file and move it to the external storage via file manager. When I tried to move an app, even with full memory available, it just says not enough memory. So there is no use to have an external memory and with 10 GB usable internal memory is just not enough. Even with the latest system updates, none of the above features worked. I just don't know if it's just me, who has got a defective piece as I see most of the ppl are really happy with this mobile phone.
1|I have used one plus x for 10 days and here is my reviews.... Cons :----> 1.During charging it really heats up like any thing and if you are using cover you may not feel it but without cover it too much hot... 2. A lot of issue with memory card..you can not move any app on that if you try will get error like No space on memory card even though you have lot of space . 3.You can not select the default memory location to Memory card even not for camera .You have to manually copy all pictures and paste it on card which is worst part of it... 4.Battery drain too fast and i agree as battery is only 2500... 5.It is too slippery that you can not use it without cover as it can easily slip from hands... 6.it is 16 gb but as card is not working properly so memory it too less ... 7.No ear phones.... 8.Screen sharpness is not that much as that of one plus 2 9.No laser image stabilization.... 10.No sound equalizer .... 11.Sound setting restore to factory setting even you change it many times... 12. 3G is not working some times....
1|i am amazed why Amazon is not stopping selling this product for a time being because phone has severe issue with SD Card, it is not recognizing SD card as phone storage , this simply means you can not install any application and you can not store any data directly to SD card. Amazon seriously need some changes to there policy , if i am purchasing a product it should be working 100% at time of purchase , i should not wait for some patches/fix for later (as one plus team said they know the issue and they will provide fix later) . Second issue is with the camera , the default camera application has problem , if you are taking photo then it will not able to use flash light though it is okay with video, this issue can be solve by downloading the google camera application which is also good in use. I am sure One Plus One team is using there customer as a beta tester, by taking feedback from them they will make there next flagship better, so if you want to help them go ahead. If you are not die hard fan for one plus x , i will ask you to wait for sometime till the issue is not resolved or better choose some other phone in same range.
4|Finally I got my one plus x. The build quality is very premium. Amoled is awesome. Cons. Camera quality is poor even after getting the update.I used use one plus one camera was very good. One plus x is very disappointing in camera department Venkat
2|I have a issue with the phone, i am not getting beep sound when my call waiting is on. But i get that on loud speaker. I am not sure its the problem only with me or anyone else is facing or noticed. Its not serving the purpose 100%. Please suggest.
4|First things first, this phone's external storage feature is dumb. Yeah you heard that right, its dumb. Cannot move any of the apps to SD card, cannot change the storage of any app to SD card, you cannot delete or change music from sdcard while you're on any music player. Now!!! The device is STUNNING!!! It is literally the awesome phone you can buy for 17k. Leave about the glass back and all cuz you're gonna put a case on if anyway( thumbs for that silicone case oneplus included) @oneplus you guys are awesome !!( if you fix your silly software bugs, every time you release a phone it's software is still in beta. God whyyy???) Performance is a little greater than OPO and a bit more less than OPT. camera is really really good when compared to the devices below 20k Amazon always kills it when it comes to delivering items. Keep it going. FYI: I ordered a sdcard with this phone I got both th next day. It's like below 24hrs.
2|The phone is very good looking and display is really toooo good. BUT I have decided to return it coz, camera flash is not working and its Bluetooth doesn't recognize nearby device. I am giving two star only for its build quality n good aesthetics.
4|Its been a week I bough this product and the mobile is working fine. I found below problems 1. Flash option is not available in the default camera when operated in the "Photo" mode 2. No back light for the keypad buttons.
5|Extra invite - IN27-45A6-6D15-CBA9
1|did not read sim,not user friendly
2|Review is post 20 days of usage. Phones heats up a lot. They have provided a back cover purposefully to hide heating issue. Customers should go for Lenovo Vibe or may be Gionee Elife S7 if storage is not a prime requirement.
2|The battery life is great but rest is ok. It's screen is too much sensitive to your cheeks when you receive a call , either the speaker gets activated or it goes on mute , receiving calls gets tough if you have apps like true caller
3|Cons 1. Capacitive buttons are difficult to see. 2. No NFC 3. 64GB SD card need to format to NTFS to work. Pros 1. Very good camera pictures 2. Easy to handle size 3. Overall look and feel is very good.
4|Awesome phone....stuffs of a 30k model properly synchronized in it. Why to buy...? 1.Awesome front and rear camera 2.Sexy oxygen os 3.Premium looks 4.Superb Amoled display List goes on...Chap just buy it!!!
5|Best mobile under 17000 After ending a call the mobile hangs for 2 or 3 seconds except this im extreamely satisfied... Some of the user comment that the rear camera is bad... I dont think so its a decent camera.. Superb build quality
2|This phone has great hardware but software is not great. Bugs are there which are not fixed even with multiple updates. Basic phone call is a mess due to proximity issues. No custom tone for alarm. camera is good only on day light....
5|Got phone on Dhanteras from Amazon. Phone is same as expected. 1. 3 GB RAM 2. AMOLED Screen 3. Stylish Look & Feel 4. Nice Back/Front Camera 5. No Lag & Heating on normal use 6. & many more
4|good product but a bit over priced should be in 12k range. pros display,dual sim,expandable memory,back case and nice charger cons, NO earphones OR head phones in the box and price hence the 4 stars
2|Cheat, this phone don't have a dual speakers which they boost about it so much. They have just showed from outside case like there are two speakers but sound comes from only one and they have loads of bugs in thr OS Bad buy
4|I have used one plus 2 for quite some time now. Its a very nice phone with great specs. One plus X is also similar and will be gr8. If anyone want an invite kindly mail me at aadeshpande@gmail.com. even one plus 2 invite available
5|The only problem is with battery
5|beautiful phone, good battery, decent camera at an awesome price..well done oneplus. Invites expire on 3rd december 2015: IN30-502E-6B31-5F8A IN9B-A438-C4AF-E3AC IN45-A673-7E94-7BF6 ENJOY!!:))
4|A good Android phone and perfect size for someone looking for features and not wanting a bulky one. Battery, speed, camera all good. After using other makes do expect some features as built in rather than downloading the same.
5|The best ever 5" phone in the segment, although no finger print sensor, water protection and NFC. The phone is super sexy. Storage should be given more like 32gb. Over all phone is all above other phone and a must buy phone.
5|the best phone in this price range. May be it's not a flagship killer but it kills its competition very convincingly in this price range and features. onyx glass provides that luxurious look and the phone quality looks awesome.
2|Specs are good but when I started using I was shocked it doesend support all Indian regional languages. Gujarati is not supported. Those who planning to buy this mobile check about the languages supported before wasting money.
1|Phone look Good, batry poor 100%charge batry 8ours discharge bad phone vest money no purchase any other purchase through Amazon delivery good 20/11/15 using two days only voice calling 4times batry charge batry quality poor
3|A good phone but for 17k the company doesn't provide a earphones & screen guard. The website say free one plus one radio with build in app. but dear one plus u need provide an earphone in order to listen to it. Disappointed.
4|The phone is good, camera lacks detail. Light weigt, good finish premium looks. Glass surface is Slippery. Neat OS. Decent performance from the battery.(May have to consider powerbank if you plan to use 3G all the day.)
4|Nice 1+x
4|Good one
5|Good one
5|Two good
5|Good one
5|Good one
5|Awesome!
5|Good one
4|Good one
5|Worst pr
5|Awesome.
4|Good....
4|Liked it
5|Good One
2|Bhfbjhbf
4|Too good
5|Amazing.
5|Best buy
3|not good
4|A master
4|Amazing.
5|Good one
5|Nice phn
5|a looker
5|AMAZING!
5|Good one
5|Good one
5|very nic
3|Worst OS
5|Good one
5|Too Good
3|Everything is too damn gud....bt i cn use it to iron my clothes......it gets so freaking damn hot....fix it asap OP!!
2|Fed up with two issues, first, it is taking two to three seconds to get unlocked, sometime takes more time and second that it does not support Punjabi language, it might not be supporting other INDIAN languages also.
5|Anybody wants invite email me.
1|THIS IS A THOROUGLY USELESS PRODUCT DO NOT BUY IT IT IS A TYPICAL CHINESE PRODUCT MINE GONE DEAD WITHIN FORTNIGHT THEY WILL CHANGE MOTHERBOARD HOW CAN YOU BELIEVE THESE PEOPLE DO NOT BE A FOOL BETTER GO FOR IPHONE 5S
1|Camera quality is not at par and AMLOED display is also not as good as Samsung devices. Overall not a satisfactory phone at the price of 17000/- you can get same configuration within 10 K with other brand name.
2|I didn't expect OPX to do such a weird thing. I was desperate to buy this phone but as soon as I got to know about the hybrid slot, I backed off. As soon as Oneplus decides to keep 2 sim + microsd, I'll purchase it.
4|As it's said.. OnePlus X Onyx is expandable up to 128 GB only.. On top of 16GB Internal (Inbuilt) Memory, can we insert a 128GB MicroSD Card? Or, we have to Insert (128 - 16 = 112) GB or less than 112GB MemoryCard?
4|1.Good screen quality and sound.... 2.Battery is not so gud..you have to charge it at least two time a day 3.heats up up to 42 degree 4.performance is good I.e. no lag 5. Overall good phone ..
5|The best phone in the price range and can rival some flagship phones as well. The built quality is superb! I will not waste more on any flagship phones going forward. Oneplus all the way! :)
1|Not as per my expectations...
5|Slim and trim..Awesome Design
4|COMPARE TO ALL OTHER MOBILES WITH THIS RANGE, "ONE PLUS X" IS QUIET SUPERIOR. THERE WAS SOME CAMERA CLARITY ISSUES BUT AFTER ALL PRIZE MATTERS. SOME HOW - YOU HAVE TO COMPROMISE WITH YOUR TASTE
2|One plus x doesn't meet up to the expectaion. Facing hang issue. While swtiching on the flash all photo graphs comes with red eye. Touch is also not much comfirtable. ovr all not recomended in 18000/- not worth.
2|Loud Speaker is Not Working while on the Call. I've Received a New Mobile as a RETURNABLE Basis, that is also same Problem. This is Time I do not want this ITEM, Kindly Refund my Amount.
1|worst phone ..heating issue..battery drains very quickly..guyz its a waste of money..beware of marketing strategies..n plz dont get influence by 5 star reiviewz..sayin dis based on my personal experience...
1|Connectivity issue with wifi
4|I got invite.. Anyone want??
4|I got to buy one as someone posted his invite in the review page. So now I am posting mine. Please give out your invite for free and spread the love around. Peace. Here's the invite 4e-7d78-e4fc-eec4
1|My phone display showed green without any external visible physical damage - please i will.not recommend even my enemies to buy this phone its display + screen now costing over 7,500 INR can you imagine
2|Camera is very bad. OnePlus - Are you sure it is 13 mega pixel? OS have many glitches and outdated. OnePlus - Did it pass QA? Looks like you just want to make money than make quality phones.
5|Great looking and Superb phone....great for multitasking...great camera...decent battery life...dont listen to anyone who is giving false reviews...no heating issues....i am very happy with this phone
2|Excellent build quality and display is ruined by a terrible camera with some heating issues. For a comparison my age old S2 takes much better pictures. If camera is your priority, just stay away.
4|Great phone *Looks elegant *Brilliant performance, almost at par with OPO *Oxygen OS is not as good as Cyanogen and android M update coming next year *Faces minimal heating
5|Any one who needs a oneplus x without invite in Mumbai .....contact me on sohilpatel90@gmail.com . have bought a extra oneplus x onyx which has not even been used.it has warranty of 1 year .
5|Awesome
5|awesome
5|Amazing
5|Amazing
5|Superb!
5|Awesome
5|Amazing
5|Awesome
4|Good...
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|love it
4|Not bad
5|Supereb
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|Amazing
3|Not bad
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|Superbb
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|Amazing
5|Perfect
5|Amazing
5|Awesome
5|Good...
5|awasome
5|Love it
5|Awesome
5|Best !!
5|Amazing
5|Awesome
5|Beauty!
5|Amazing
5|waiting
5|Ek no..
5|Superb!
5|Amazing
5|Perfect
5|Premium phone in Economical Price. I am loving it . Sd card issue is also solved after today update of oxygen 2.1.3 .Now I added 32 gb sd card. To buy Invite call me at 9988229191.
1|No, not at all. It is not to my expectations it hangs a lot. There is this defect in the handheld. At the time of unlocking it hangs, at the time of pulling the deck down it hangs.
5|Any one give me a invite
1|The phone looked sleek, camera was good, but there was a software glitch. Every five minutes of usage the phone would hang and then reboot. Had to return the product due to this.
3|Some of the features are not working properly. While typing enter key is not easily accessible. Also WiFi and data does not get switch on and off according to WiFi availability.
4|Nice slim phone good performance, camera quality is nice , comes with sketch gard and back silicone cover, only one think is missing that is Gujarati font's. I m waiting for it.
1|I am very upset with phone ,it is beauty with out brain ,it doesn't have gallary,TTS option ,RAM manager, for dual sim its hanging frequently, please don't fall for its look .
1|one plus is giving me problem within one month of purchase. And the worse part is, it's almost next to impossible to contact them for the defects...... Utterly disappointed
3|Did the dual sun feature fully working.. I m using mi4i. I am real dusk sin user and need to call very regularly from both sims. Did it make sense to switch over to OPX.
4|Nice but no earphone's
1|Its a very very bad phne ccontact get deleted by its own and why talking its get muted by own so would request you to take back I will very thankful to u if u do so
1|Not detecting the External memory card and poor battery performance. Too much cost without these two Requirements. If you don't want these two Requirements, go for it
1|Never buy this handset as lots of problems are there like castscreen not working properly wifi not connecting properly sim selection option disable frequently etc...
1|Re writing my review from 5 to 1 Because few issues like brightness issues voice muted on vedio calling Mobile heating issues no flash light working in photo capture
5|Nice one fall in love with this beauty.. Never used 5 inch device personally I like smaller ones but this is very handy.... Some one need invite then let me know
1|I have received one plux x 17-12-2015 I am using this product approximately 3-4 hours in a day i am faced some difficulties as phone is hanging and heating problem
1|need to upgrade like select all option, call waiting tone raise, second sim ring tone & SMS tone should be differ. it should be more smart then.........
1|Not satisfied Phone goes into ADD A CALL, while talking on the phone, happens with almost all the calls Very very bad phone Not recommended
5|Best phone within the 18k range.. with the latest cyanogen 2.1.3 update... the sd card issue is fixed....great news for Oneplus X users...... thank you #Oneplus
5|This product is easily the best budget smartphone available out there when we consider Looks, Performance Price Highly recommended!!!
1|Mobile is not at all working properly. All the applications are showing not responding & screen gets white n getting hanged... Much disappointed
5|Superb
5|Thanks
4|Almost
5|Lol...
5|Nice 1
4|Arpith
5|I want
5|Superb
5|superb
5|Nice 1
5|Thanks
1|I am facing problem in getting system updates, it keeps on downloading till eternity and the system does n't get updated I need my phone to be replaced
1|no nfc, no dual band wifi, back camera below average, no fingerprint, no 64 bit processor, no marsmallow, n last battery very poor..only looks n screen good
1|Got the product but it simply refused to boot .. nor did it get charged .... strange .. not expected from 1 plus x .. especially with the aura it carries
1|This phone is ok for the price range , but it's only beautiful on paper, it's not really upto the mark in terms of performance. It almost mimics the iphone
1|Sim is not getting detected, i have converted my sim to nano sim but tried many times but very dissatisfied with the phone :( :( I will have to return it.
5|Powerfully beautiful
4|IND4-7307-9AF8-2940
4|Product is good except the drawback that its not dual sim in fact its dual sim or 1 sim card + 1 micro SD and currently apps are not transferrable to SD.
3|The phone looks are awesome and the functions are smooth. But I find the phone heating a little while charging and when too much usage at the same time.
1|Don't get deceived by its looks.Phone is certainly not worth Rs.17K. It's better to spend 3K more and buy One Plus One instead. Or there are better alternatives like Asus zen phone 2 and Lenovo Vibe P1 in similar price range. There are software glitches, poor camera , highly saturated display and phone gets heated up even on using some basic apps like camera. Would have rated it 3 stars if it has been priced around 10K - 12 K, as that's what the worth of this phone is. Bottom line is its not worth 17K.
1|I did not like the look and feel of the phone.. Returned it next day and got an iPhone6s Tall claims that it is iPhone killer falls flat..
2|i got the invite, but invite is not working. If i call customer care, they will give number. If you call there, it will request for one more invite.
4|Awesome phone... The specs are very good in this price range... I've an invite to share if anyone wants this please mail me at rizzy.sayed@gmail.com
4|I don't expect lags in phone with 3GB ram. :/ Even I experienced few lags in 50MB game Otherwise it's a great phone with aesthetic looks.
1|Product is very bad . I have taken it and it has not been more then 10 days and there is problem in saving contacts and i want to return my product
1|Got a defective phone with defect in speaker and mic. Requested return. No update on when the new product will arrive, or the return status...
4|IN18-CB24-9141-976E
5|IN4B-08ED-C899-96C6
1|The screen is not good. it does not have a better battery life. When i browse the net then the scrolling is an issue. Camera quality is poor.
1|Phone is good. Unfortunately I could not use it even for a day. Idea cellular does not have nano SIMs(national MNP), no plans to manufacture them
1|Bad product, no customer care call center Mobile handset cannot detect micro sd storage card. Network detection issues. Call hearing problem
5|Any Interested buyers who needs Invite code can get Code at Reasonable Price as per Buyer want...So,hurry up & e-mail @-( [vdoupdates@gmail.com )
3|I am buying oneplus x mobile its a good phone but can you tell me anyone how to show sd card on mobile.. i am insert sd card but dont show.....
4|Amazing phone..but need regular updates for bugs and latest versions..produce same product with different colours will make difference I think..
2|This product is not so good in usage as it looks like in paper. My main consideration were UI,Battery Life and performance 1) Its UI is not friendly at all, you will have to learn this Oxygen OS which doesnt offer any help/manual, 2) Battery didnt even last for a day with 2hrs of talktime, I am not sure if this was the issue with my phone alone and 3) Its performance was good didnt get struck in between apps. However will appreciate amazon for providing good return policy.
4|This is the undoubtedly the best mobile phone one can get under 20k keeping in mind its brand value, hardware and its absolutely gorgeous looks
1|The screen has stopped responding with in 3 weeks of use! And its so tough to figure out who to call/ask for details given you ordered online!
1|I wish I must have bought one plus two. I don't know whether you can offer me this with differential amount, but if so I will be obliged.
2|Phone quality is good and look is awesome but video,sound and apps are not up to the mark many had given their own reviews.. but pic quality is not great and very difficult to switch between video and camera.. and sound is very low as it has monochrome speaker which is not good factor.. and coming to applications there is no gallery folder as it has been sync with google photos which i dont like my pics to go onine ..please cross check and buy
1|One plus X Very poor phone camapre moto g2 motor g2 much better plus X no mmi code same features in motor g2 don't buy
5|It is really awesome phone, one should go with it. I have three invite for oneplus X. Interested one can mail me at solanki.krunal7@gmail.com
1|I am shock when I see in the box no mobile only a big stone
5|Ordered my OnePlus X just now. Too much excited to get my hands on it. Will provide a detailed review with pics once I receive this beauty.
1|mobile charger is not working fine.. It takes too much of time to charge mobile. Please give any pointers how to get replace my chargers..
1|Even basic games like subway surfer lags in this phone. Poor camera in artificial light. Huge configuration with poor software.
3|Phone design and built is excellent but camera is not good... I am using CM 12 camera app. Photos are grainy. Performance is excellent.
1|Not happy!!!!, As on purchasing a new phone the Sync cable is not working, Hence cannot charge the phone or use it for data transfer :(
5|Need OPX invite..waiting for the invite bt new the getting it... Pls share the activated invite.. on rohit2785@rediffmail.com. . Thanks
4|First person in my city
1|Lenovo Vibe with NFC, finger print unlock, 5000mah battery and also it acts as a power bank can charge any mobile,1000 rupee less than this is much much much better than this useless s***..!! no need of invite and all for buying this useless s*** at this price.. guys better don't get cheated of this useless hype created by one plus and Amazon.. oxigen OS is another biggg s***..!! just hype for an useless s*** which is over priced..
5|Hey if any one want to buy one plus x i have invites, contact me on prakharchandra07@gmail.com for invites 3 days remaining
5|IN66-EB87-4F30-7E77 Great phone. Extra invite. Hilarious how people are demanding money from people for an invite, baffling
5|If anyone needs this phone I have it in the cart valid till 12 night. I won't charge any extra buck just email me @ K.Bzonda@gmail.com
1|its dabba mobile.
5|Wooohooo made the purchase I love this device. Guys benchmarks and only hardware is nothing What matters is optimization... ;)
5|If you are oneplus fan, techie, smartphone lover then do join this group,,, https://www.facebook.com/groups/835767746461190/
5|The charger adopter is loosely connected. The design itself has an issue otherwise the phone is excellent. No complains. Thanks!
5|awsum and every one must have mobilehandset... i just love its look and performance. suggesting everyone to buy this.
1|Bought it and replaced it.. Bad Camera, Bad Battery backup OnePlus did blunder just close to creating a masterpiece
3|Great phone. Except battery does not last the whole day even with minimal use. Have to start looking for a charger by evening.
4|GREAT
5|Super
5|Awsme
5|Good.
5|great
2|OK OK
4|The p
5|great
5|Great
5|10/10
4|Nicce
5|great
5|Super
4|Great
5|Nice
5|Great
1|very bad product, internet connectivity seems very erratic, changed 2 sim cards and 2 differant networks but the same result
4|Any one required invite for one plus x I have 1 invite code (it's free ) required kindly contact me or whatsupp- 9833473478
4|Good phone. I have three invites : IN65-6249-0DCD-1C54, INE1-C722-026E-BB37, IN04-187C-6F19-CFB0. Claim within 4 days.
1|I am camera lover.so should i buy this phone or not? Is the picture quality better than that of samsung galaxy grand prime
5|If you have an invite for free pls ...give a missed call to 7406862523 .waiting for an invite since since nov 2nd.Thank you
5|Have three invites for one plus x. Call 7065003725 to get @500 each. Only serious calls reqd. Call till 2nd December only
5|The phone is really awesome nd excellent features compare all other phone in this range value one plus x s best .........
5|It would be probably your best phone experience using 1+ x . Its superfast. Its tooo sexy . Trust me its worth buying !!!
5|Hi I'm really looking forward to get my hands on this device. But hard to get an invite . Can anyone share an invite ? :)
5|I m very happy with this one plus x device. It is very slim,Compaq, faster,beautiful, look premium. Go for it.
5|if u want to buy the phone use invite: ind7-4bbc-2bc3-6ffe it wl expire in 1 day so claim it now. enjoy..
1|Not worth to buy.. have returned on day one itself.. looks are premium but os is not good. icons on the screen looks very hazy.. like a normal cheap china make phones. Processor is not up to the mark it has 3gb and 2.3Ghz but dont know why phone is very slow. you cant personalize your phone screen.. have to live with what they have given if you buy it.
5|product was absolutely beautiful and some software flaws are there , I think one plus development team will take care
1|I never used such a product with improper design.. So many defects.. No proximity sensor.. Vibration while calling..
4|Invites : IN19-085E-5EC0-5131 INF1-936A-FC24-DE49 IN6A-6828-D75E-2343 Claim within 5 days!
4|Great mobile having good looks and very handy. But flash is not working in the inbuilt camera application
1|One of the third class phone I have ever use in terms of camera. You can't click pics at night without flash light
5|Just purchased the OnePlus X. I hope it'll be good. As their One and Two are awesome! Hoping for great!
4|Not get invite
1|It dint work well. Started using it for a week and now my top left touch is not working. Returning the product.
1|5 star to product but 1 star to Amazon for not converting amount to EMI and charging full amount + interest WTF!!
5|Got invite for both one plus x and one plus 2 if any budy wants can call me 9039168739 today only be fast to call
5|Ordered on the very first day at 2.25pm and I received my order the next day, an amazing mobile lovin it.......!
1|Worst handeset eve bought. 100% battery dischcharing in 5hrs.without use of data connection and wifi. Don't buy.
4|Here's an invite code for the OnePlus X. IN99-CF46-B6A2-F2B5 Will expire within 48 hours. Cheers.
1|Before buying the phone please think twice. I am a victim of all these five start reviews. I bought the one plus x phone 3 days back, and now I am considering to return it. The problem started from day one, display is blurring, apps menu turns off automatically... I am really fed up with this product... Don't even try for this mobile....
4|Wifi is weak and i do not get signal in my bedroom wheras all my other devices get connected from the bedroom.
5|oh thats great and btw I have OnePlus X invites with me plz contact me on hraval1510@yahoo.in and +919892148690
1|Issues with mobile data connectivity and mrmory card.. You may need to reboot couple of timed daily... :(
5|I will give 5 stars for this phone. Looks and features are awesome. The best phone I had ever. Love you one +x
5|Bought this phone at 2 PM, waiting eagerly for delivery. Will keep u guys posted after initial use.
5|Haven't seen such a fast phone! Have 1+2 as well this is good, there is a big for. So card. Waiting for fix
5|Awesome phone and if anyone wants an invite contact me on shrivastavaateet@gmail.com I am selling it.. Hurry
5|BUILD QUALITY OF PHONE IS JUST AWSM. COMPARED TO 50K PHONE. BUY IT BEST PHONE IN ITS CLASS UNDER 17K.
5|Need an invite,contact me at 7728991920 It's for sale @Rs 1500 Non negotiable Payment first
3|INB8-5852-DF20-45F7 ....if any body need invite so you can use this invite ....Enjoy....only one day left
3|Phone is beast.if any one need a invite you can contact me on avinash0097@gmail.com r whatsap:9491962418.
5|Nice phone... Awesome experience... Anyone need invite do contact on manas.bajpai88@gmail.com
5|I got the mobile today afternoon nd from then I hv used it full day bd trust me dude its awesome mobile
1|I want to return the phone as the phone is getting hotter since 2,days pls return I want my money back
3|It gets hanged in between the call,need to restart it all the time.Its not a product which i expected.
4|One plus x invite 500 only interested people only ping me on m.mthers@gmail.com first come first serve
3|First thanks to Amazon for delivering the one plus x on time. every thing is fine but I am facing one problem I am not able to use Airtel money on this phone and also I am not able to check prepaid balance of my Airtel number is any one facing this problem will it be solved in next software update.
3|Only constraint is 16gb if used as dual sim. Waiting for a 64GB variant. Any idea when it will come?
5|I have got an invite for oneplus x any one interested...... mail me at mukulanandin@gmail. com......
1|waste phone.
4|Can anyone tell me how will rear camera work as it is protected and its written on it not to remove
5|Good one - AMAZON TRANSPORT SERVOCE CAN DELIVER BEFORE TIME . About ONE PLUS X it is good phone ?
5|Hi guys looking for an invite wats app me first and I will give invite for one plus x 9066592480.
4|Nice
5|Good
4|good
4|Good
5|good
5|GOOD
5|Good
5|best
5|Best
5|Good
4|Nice
4|Good
4|Nice
5|Good
4|Good
4|good
3|none
5|Good
3|Good
4|Good
5|Good
4|Nice
5|Good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|What
5|Best
4|good
4|good
4|Good
4|good
5|Cool
5|Good
4|Good
4|Good
5|fine
4|Good
5|good
3|Good
5|Good
5|Nice
3|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|Good
4|Fine
5|Nice
5|Good
5|Nice
5|Nice
4|Good
5|good
5|Good
5|Good
3|Good
4|nice
4|Good
5|Good
4|good
5|best
5|good
4|Good
5|Nice
5|Good
4|Good
5|Plss
5|good
5|Good
5|Cool
4|Good
5|Good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Nice
4|good
5|Nice
5|Good
5|Good
5|Nice
5|good
5|Nice
5|NICE
2|On first look it was very awesome..after 15 days of use the phone is giving problem..the other person cannot hear you until or unless you put the phone on speakerphone
5|Claim it asap. INB6-D8D1-0B68-FF2B IN56-A9F8-C20F-B54A IN54-AE7E-D0EF-4AE5
2|Not satisfied Heats like fire. Quiet disappointed. Not worth the hype and money
5|IN95-41CA-4ECE-2E92 Dont need an invite coz i have oneplus 2 use this one if u want.
2|I brought my OPX last week.. My one speaker is not working. How can I apply for replacement..
4|I have an invite. If anybody needs this, they can use this for free. IN55-2F0E-1D8E-C48D
4|Has anyone got an invite for one plus x phone?please do share... preetammanoli@gmail.com
1|Camera performance is very low, No flash, Main issue USSD notification,wall Charger missing
4|Just Purchased FYI, I applied for invite and within 12hrs got one from one plus...
1|Booked the phone on 5th received on 9th. build quality is good. I ordered this phone because of camera and i was expecting a great camera quality. The camera is not good. Bpoor battery backup. But I think it is overly hyped and priced. This should come in 13,500/-.
1|Can anybody help! On switching on the phone.. Its all chinese, cant even operate! What to do
5|Any one wanna buy use my invite as i have changed my mind - infb-d43e-659f-c86a Cheers.
4|I have one 1+ x invite.. any body need.. email me samumr86@gmail.com. FIFO wil get invite :)
5|I have Oneplus X invite to share.. if any one require, mail me.... devendarbukyaa@gmail.com
4|Oneplus x Invite.use it today as i received it on 20th november. IN14-894E-40FA-9430
5|Got the Phone With One Day Delivery,Over All Performance Is Good With Good Camera Clarity
5|There is small problem used at a time on 2 sim no memory card or one sim and memory card
1|The phone is not worth buying as per the price defined. Very poor quality of processor ,
5|Worth it..!! have some invites let me no if interested Constancecoutinho8@gmail.com
1|Just got my one plus . Not able to receive or make call. Asked for replacement horrible
2|How to check radiation level in device and what is the radiation level in one plus x ?
3|I hve a one plus x but my phone heats a lot and while playing games it lags! Need help
5|looks great and premium... should need to wait for full review... just started using
1|Hanging problem Sd card doesn't show Easily catch finger print and scrach
5|I have a Invite and selling it for cheap Contact me on skype live:mzn_000
1|Not upto the mark. Hangs a lot Need replacement if possible.
5|Claim your invite at http://onepl.us/IN71-EE75-EE4D-6A89 IN71-EE75-EE4D-6A89
5|I've one last invite. 5 days validity. Contact 9480154552. mschirantan7@gmail.com
2|dual sim or singal sim and micro SD card. not sported dual sim and Micro SD card.
5|Using it for 3 months. Great phone. For invite contact "xkanth@gmail.com"
5|Please provide an invite for one plus x at pushp_dhingra@yahoo.com.........thanks
1|my mobile is dead after two weeks. i just switched off my mobile at knight. but morning its not turned on. in these two weeks the mobile was hanged two times. request amazon to replace my mobile or refund my money back
1|Rear camera pic is too blury after 1st uses. Not worthy experience with one plus
5|everything about the mobile is awesome till now.. using it for the past 4 days..
5|Need invite pls help me ..i want this phone very badly.zuzara_soyab@yahoo.co.in
1|I mobile did not satisfy by its battery life its too bad 3 to 4 hrs life max..
1|Not worth for price.heating rapidly. low quality camera for low light pictures
5|Excellent phone I want buy three more thanks lot amazon team and one plus team
5|excellent
2|Ear piece is not working in just one month defective piece !! Looks brilliant
5|Invite for sale Pm at shashwatagrahari@gmail.com and hiteshpratyush@gmail.com
5|If anybody wants invite,whatapp me on 9713999599 Valid for only two days
5|It is an amazing phone at under 20k. won't get other phone better than this under 20k. If u have an invite and thinking of buying it, go for it!Another great job by OnePlus but still annoying with invites!
3|Snapdragon 801 in Oneplus X is an Under clocked processor(2.3GHZ) compared to Oneplus One (2.5GHZ), due to this certain benchmarks are very low. I dont understand why to go for an under clocked processor?
5|Can any one invite to purchase one plus x mobile Vijayyadav64@gmail.com
2|One plus x invite available. Selling it for a reasonable price. Any one intrstd mail me at akhiljain1996@gmail.com or can contact me on whatsapp - 9550839900. Its valid for nxt 22hrs only. So be fastt
4|I have three invites for OnePlus X to share. Let me know if you want one. ?
4|Nice look.good display. Great front camera.but some minor software glitch..
5|Atleast on diwali please remove the invite... i m waiting to buy this phone
1|Not worth for Rs 17000 You can get similar phones with much less cost
2|64 and 128 GB card have issues, phone is not detecting it. Sad experience.
1|video recording not properly and video recording don not caught music bass
1|Received today... And the back camera showing blur image.... Unsatisfied..
5|Happy to have a new OnePlus x in my collection.. Satisfaction unlimited...
4|Need an invite urgently.. Kindly mail it to dr. Harshdeepsingh@gmail.com
1|This phone sucks...so many technical issues..better go for lenovo vibe s1
5|Invite available, please email at work.akashjacob@gmail.com within 24 hrs
1|Design and features OK but coming to battery waste phone. Don't buy this
5|Got loads of invite pls contact if you need one ! shant.shivu@gmail.com
2|Another China phone as it becomes very hot which is not good for usage
2|Not satisfied with the performance.The 2 stars is for looks and speccs.
5|I have a invite for anyone interested in purchase. WhatsApp 9962648178.
5|INEC-7823-9F25-3A29 Claim within 12 hours Stay happy!!
5|Best phone in 20 k range......with more than enough class features....
5|i have an invite anyone intrested let me know samratbhardwaj@gmail.com
1|The worst phone of the year 2015, We can pay for this phone 6,000/- .
1|Battery work only 5 hours. battery backup very bed. i don't like it.
2|did not stand up to its reviews or my satisfaction. Returned it back.
3|Not a great battery. Display response is okish. But well built phone.
3|Good phone at reasonable price...BT lacks at certain basic features..
5|Finally I got oneplusX .....early delivery by Amazon... Awesome phone
1|INVITE process Sucks
5|Yes
5|Gr8
5|WOW
3|3/5
5|:))
5|Opx
2|It is not a Dual Phone, only you can use one SIM with memory card.
5|Pretty good small and power full phone nice camera very good music
4|Its a good phone.... If u want a invite you can contact 9421656664
5|Again in time delivery. One plus has rocked again with one plus x.
4|Contact me @91-9999449939 or 91-8968056098 for one plus x invite.
5|I want to gift one x to my sis.plz give me invite if anyone have.
5|Excellent clarity front cam and speed good no heating. Good look
1|Software is not OK. It hangs a lot. Doesn't respond in one click
1|Some applications are not to good which should be basic features
1|Heating problem and os having lot of bugs. Very disappointed..
5|Invite available for only rs 300/- Whatsapp me @ 9414370360
4|Koi claim kiya huwa invite code update karo..yar help ho sake..
1|This is the worst Phone I have ever been used.It is not a business phone. I am using this phone from last 1 month. Planning to change it. Not a value for money.
1|Worst mob..i ever use..pls dont buy...wasting of money and time
1|Phone does not support sd card.The charger is also not working.
5|INO2-AF3F-8993-7673 Use in 30 hrs Enjoy!! Thank me @ 9446009001
1|Other person not able to hear my voice when I on the speakers.
1|Unable to support 64 gb memory card. Facebook app not working.
5|Any one want invite contact me @t pawanjes@gmail.com
5|I need an invite could someone ping me ashwanthk2593@gmail.com
1|Very bad mobile don't buy please guys one plus one is so good
2|Overheating is an issue while playing any one has solution???
1|Don,t buy this mobile .this mobile is having software problem
5|NICE MOBILE, Awesome :-) Join 'One Plus X' Facebook Pag.
5|Brilliant phone at an amazing price IN21-E95C-10EA-950B
5|Best phone..... For invite whatsapp me 9033919464
5|i love this oneplus x phone good degine bulid quality good .
1|I have bought one Plus x on 11 Nov 2015 in Amazon India. Yesterday accidentally just slipped phone on hand less than 1 ft suddenly entries display screen was broken . what is build quality of gorilla Glass 3 production ? What is use gorilla glass , I don't except this low and poor quality products from one plus. I lost trust about one plus products.
5|i have an extra invite for one plus x if anyone wants to trade mail me at swapniljiwane96@gmail.com remember this invite expires in 30 hrs...
1|WiFi is getting disconnected frequently even in close range
5|I want to buy one plus x.. Any one got to invite share
5|Those who need an invite PM me at dchatterjee93@outlook.com
4|Can any one invite me this my mail Id sm.amruth93@gmail.com
2|Mobile not upto mark I won't recommend this one for buying
2|Charger not working properly because charger part missing
1|It came defected! Although amazon refunded my money!
1|Battery backup is toooo low... Please think before buying
5|I've got a free invite to share. IN1F-2D84-DEFC-1CE9
4|Here is the activated invite enjoy . ind4-ed2e-c2e0-0541
5|If anybody wants invite, contact me on abcdbond@gmail.com
1|Worst choice for a lot of wait in the name of invitation
5|NA19-33B2-B926-3022 - use this invite who ever needs it.
4|amazing phone! battery could have been slightly bigger.
1|I confused from the review whether i can buy or not....
4|It's a good phone... Haven't had any problems so far.
4|I have extra invites let me know if anyone interested.
4|Cannot get connected to one plus x by using my invite.
5|FOR INVITE CONTACT ME 09660666085 For rs 300
4|Anyone have invite pls help ....yashsoni1294@gmail.com
1|Total crap camera! Lot of noise in it, sluggish picture.. Installed Camera MX etc apps but no use... Good is size and thin mobile light weight, speed no hangs... Bad battery drains super fast.. Minimum use battery drained 80% end of day... I didnt expect this after so much positive feedbacks...
5|Value for money given the phone specs and performance
5|I need invite, plz mail me @mihirparmar1313@gmail.com
5|Need invite..? mail me at jai.matoliya@gmail.com
4|Got a spare invite.. Please WhatsApp me at 9037049409
3|Too much hype, poor specs. Mi4i is a better package.
5|Will the glass break if dropped? How sturdy is it?
3|1.Hands free is not provided. 2.Camera is okay
5|Can anyone invite me ... hitesh21nov@gmail.com
1|though phone looks good the OS is outdated. Phone build wise it looks rich, touch is great. But many features are missing in the phone, at this price we can get better OS phones than this. This was my wrong choice, need to compromise on many things.
1|One plusx almost looking gud but baterry verry bad
5|INCE-3F41-3363-48ED claim this invite within 1 day
4|Any one looking for Invite?? Call me on 8652312344
5|I am happy with the product as well as delivery.
5|I have an extra invite. Text me on +91-9033236056
5|Super duper phone good battery backup clean is...
1|Heating.. Poor rear camera,.. High price...
4|Good phone ... interface could have been better.
1|flash is not working when i took photos in night
1|Mobile is getting hanged on the 2nd day itself..
5|IN0B-600D-142E-25C7 one plus x invite for you...
5|Classy looks, great camera, overall great phone.
1|Dont buy this..... Battery is Worst............
1|Am returning this phone...very very bad Battery
5|INAD-106D-4A89-502B invite will expire in 1 day
5|i dint understood bcuz , i ordered my phone on 5th nov during launch exactly by 2.05 pm , amazon delivered my phone on 9th , and one of my frnd ordered phone on 7th he got one day delivery (free delivery) that was really irritating . Talking about phone looks simple and just amazing , I loved it,gives rich look , looks bit like nexus 4 , iphone 5s. back one plus logo makes the phone much more amazing Back camera is good , front camera is ok , doesn't look like 8 mp. Talking about speaker ,if you are music lover then this phone is not for you because this phone does not have good sound quality . side buttons are bit loose might be this would be in my case Battery life is pretty ok , i charged 100% in morning using 3rd party apps , wifi ,by the time of 3pm battery is 60% , Charging is bit slow it takes 2.5 hours to get ful charge Display size is 5.5 dat makes phone amazing bcuz i feel this is the perfect size for cell phones not to small not to big . I will say in the price if 17000 you getting amazing phone .. loved it any ways ..
1|Fooling people with wrong links, it's all hoax
5|diwali gift to those who want to hve X IN2C-0C41-91F2-031C it is activated enjoy it.. and happy diwali
1|Expected a lot from this phone but too narrow
3|No screen guard and earphone with the mobile.
3|Issues wit charging. Not feel good interface.
1|Camera flash issue and SD card not detecting.
5|Somebody needed invite call me at 9466465965
1|Camera Quility is not good and battery also
4|A very nice phone with less battery life.
5|IN94-2BCD-9DD3-41C5 claim within 3 days....
2|Buggy software...amazon refused return also
4|Good phone, light weight good configuration
1|Got a defective phone. No help from Amazon
5|Use this Invite IN7D-91AC-8AC3-4E35 :)
5|For invite mail me at jitentex@hotmail.com
3|HEATING PROBLEM,CAMARA FLASH IS NOT COMING
5|Invitation code required.. Email - shubhant@gmail.com, I will give you 100rs in PayTM wallet
5|Hi
4|Ok
5|Hi
3|Ok
2|ok
4|?
5|Ko
3|ok
5|Hi
5|Great phone, so far. No further comments.
5|Cntact @vshashank96@gmail.com for invites
1|Camera is not as per the expectations...
5|Excellent phone Got delivered next day .
2|There is no ear phone which is complementary part with every mobile . Shame on oneplus
2|Freaking.... S4 is much better with less price Pros 4G, design, free back cover Cons Battery, no head phones(crazy), high price, network problem, no call clarity,
4|Nice mobile, but lack of camera clarity
3|Built-in gallery would have been great.
1|Not for people who used highend phones.
2|performance is not upto my expectation.
1|Adapter of the phone charger is faulty.
5|Its amazing but it should be waterproof
5|Nice
5|For invitation mail placidkx@gmail.com
4|Nice phone battery backup is no good.
1|Not as responsive as I thought of....
5|An excellent product for itz price...
5|Best of luck INB7-7EF6-750D-8888
1|Too bad.... My charger is not working
4|Do one plus x carry head phones with.
2|hang problem while unlocking device,
4|Not recive glass protector with box.
1|charger defected highly disappointed
5|A great phone with a great price tag
4|IN3C-806B-C99D-F633 valid for 3 days
5|Ausum phone with amazing features...
1|Only looks...... Worth less battery
3|ok hai but Punjabi font not working
2|Heating issue is their in the phone
5|can somebody give me a invite??????
1|Atleast they should give handsfree.
1|When we have the best similar phones for 10k this is costlier.. Eg Acer
5|Best seller ever.. Cloudtail rocks
5|Amazing phone. Just loved it.
5|Whatsapp 8943780282 for invites...
4|Need an invite does anyone have it
1|Phone strucks and sometimes slow
5|Nice phone. Worth every penny!!
5|Whats app on 7827260130 fr codes
1|Speaker was not working properly
5|Nice phone specs under my budget
4|Need invite, Someone please helo
1|it is not upto my satisfaction.
2|Does it has fingerprint sensor?
1|Waste product not worth of 17k
5|Whatsapp - 9783678914 be quick
5|Nice Mobile and clear graphics
1|Do not buy this phone if you get irritated by bugs in the software, the oxygen os has so many problems I think their QA doesn't get paid, the phone lags while playing [...] They are deleting posts from their forums who are coming up with complaints regarding the same so I just posted the hoogle search results link above The internet just stops working, after an hour or so, no matter you are connected to wifi or cellular data the internet just stops, none of the websites load nothing works, you have to reboot every time This is just a overhyped low performing phone
1|Battery life is a big disappointment,average use lasted me for around 6 to 8 hours maximum (on 3g connection). camera shots lack in detail and images are grainy and low light images are disappointing and most part of the image is out of focus. Display is great along with the look and feel and touch response is fluid but display takes a toll on the battery life and the heating issue is still present and can be felt easily thanks to the Snapdragon 801 SoC. Overall the phone does not perform well and is a big disappointment for the price that Oneplus is charging.
5|Best phone I liked it so much
5|oxygen os is not optimised :/
5|Nice phone fr the price range
5|Awesome Mobile worth for cash
4|I subscribed to the invite on Launch day (Nov 5th) & lo behold! Received said invite to purchase on 7th Nov. Ordered the phone the same day & I gotta say that I am pleasantly surprised to have received it within 24 hours:) However, the delivery guys should carry Swipe machines as I do not prefer to withdraw & pay in cash especially when the amount is substantially large. About the delivery experience- 1. Superfast delivery (24 hrs) 2. Packaging was intact & untampered. 3. The negative- The delivery guy called me in the afternoon to confirm if I was at home & asked to to keep cash ready for payment....REALLY!!! I has to withdraw 17k from the nearby ATM. I mean, come on Amazon:( Please ensure your delivery guys carry swipe machines in working condition. About the phone: There are so many reviews & unboxing videos that I aint gonna say much except that it is a gorgeous device. Its very similar to the Oneplus One launched last year in specs except that it comes with a few tweaks & a smaller screen size. My two cents...... What I liked: 1. Build quality: 9/10- Feels like a premium phone. Oneplus has paid close attention to details. 2. Oxygen 2.1 is almost like Vanilla android but with a nice few tricks- love it (PS- My old phone was a Moto G2, the switchover was a breeze) 3. Comes with a translucent silicone case & screen protector which is a nice touch. 4. Almost no bloatware (Feels like stock android) What could have been better: 1 Should have included a separate SD card drawer & dual sim slots. Currently we can have Sim 1 + SD card or dual sim cards. 2. Phone is glossy & a fingerprint magnet. 3. Looks very similar to last year's Iphone 5s (But hey, its still a head-turner) 4. Screen size is 5" which is quite small compared to the larger screen sizes that are in vogue today. Overall, I am very happy with the phone. Giving 4stars out of 5 due to unavailability of swipe machine with the delivery guy. I
4|Good fine at amazing price.
1|Worst phone heating problem
5|loved it nice budget phonet
1|Not recommended to any one.
5|Invite for sale 8866587736
5|nice phone with best price
5|This phone is really the best from oneplus. Has great looks infact killer looks. Oxygen Software is also good. Has compact size fits into the pocket without poping out. Front camera does a good job than the rear. Oneplus atleast in future updates if a gallery is provided would be good instead of having thirdparty app. Hybrid simcard slot it not a matter for me as i donot store much data i can use both slots for sims. 11gb space is available which is sufficient for me. Over all a good phone
2|I want to decide between lenovo vibe s1 and this. Which one should i go for? Only problem with this is which has almost the same specs and pricing but the internal memory which is 32 gb in the lenovo vibe s1. Anyone has a lenovo vibes1 to compare with this. Its for my mom. So need decent big size keyboard with background prefer to be in white color than black. I want black keys and white background. And should ne smooth in adding contacts and texting. I used a moto E was horrible. TIA
5|IN9C-DF79-C4F7-F27F Enjoy
1|My phone is heating too much wastage of money
1|Not satisfied, no value
1|very conditional item...
5|Best phone must purchase
1|Didn't meet expectations
5|I want one plus x invite
1|Camera not exelant ....
1|heating problem. no futures, low quality,
1|Looking gud BT speaker properly not work
1|DONOT this phone, not worth a penny. The Battery does not last for even 8 hours even in normal use. design do not serve your purpose that you want from a smart phone, what matters is Functionality.It is too much slippery. even if you wish to flaunt its design you would not be able to do that due to worry of damage by falling. better buy some good phone . Moto G Turbo is the best and this is below this price range.
5|Excellent in all terms
5|The budget flagship :)
1|not fit as expected...
1|Mobile heating problem
5|Must buy at this price
4|I have been using this phone for the past few days now and the experience is really great except that when I unlock the screen using the system locks, the system lag a little. The phone has a great camera both front and rear. The touch is soft, battery is a little above average. It is really a nice fone with awesome looks. If u have a budget below 20k it is the only phone u should go for.
1|Overall phone looks very good, however there seems to be issue with WiFi connectivity due to its own OS.It does not connect to wifi automatically and needs a restart quite often as soon as wifi connection is lost. I am waiting for a fix from the company to resolve the WiFi issue. If WiFi issues gets fixed (which I believe it will be fixed soon) then its one of the best phone in this range.
1|Baring 3gb RAM which I was looking for, nothing else excites. Even, customer care is not upto mark in resolving my query on location change not happening automatically despite mobile data & location setting is on. Buying this despite this review is a huge risk & u may repent. I strongly feel, am deceived by this product. Suggest to explore branded mobile lest it costs bit higher.
1|Charging not support with its cable
5|the best VFM android
5|amazing black beauty
3|Is it working on 4G?
5|This one is a beast
2|battery its too bad
5|IN7D-B4E6-B20A-2F3D
5|IN5B A026 C128 B469
5|IN2E-8107-3E14-7355
5|Enjoy! IN61-BBEE-4CAD-575C
4|
4|
5|
5|A
5|
1|SIM and memory slot is common.
2|Very worst mobile.
5|am I the first one to order:):),got an invite and ordered it sharp at 2 PM today .....I was about to upgrade to iphone 5s from my 4S and I got to know about this beast!!!!!!......design of this phone is truly remarkable....some may argue that its copy of iphone 4S design.....yes it may be but it provides 5 inch display and 2525mAh battery which I badly needed and which was lacking in 4s......this is just the exact specification which I was thinking of and I got it in the form of one plus x......waiting to use it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
1|Product perfectly delivered by Amazon. The phone is dead slow. Launcher is not responding most of the times. Contacts fail to load everytime. Battery is draining super fast. Having hell of a time with this. Worst of all this, not able to reach oneplus customer server - Its either busy or no one picks it up.
1|Please don't buy this phone and request you not to spend your hard earned money on this phone . Don't go on wallpaper and others review . Camera is not good , phone is getting heated .width of the phone is small compare to othe phones . Very very ordinary phone . It gives me a feeling of buying cheap Chinese phone .
1|Poor quality camera as compare to Mi. There is no flash for pictures (its only for videos). Plenty of bug using usual play store apps like gmail, goog map and music. No gallery option for viewing pictures ad videos (have to use google photo app). Performance is almost same as Mi4i despite of its 3 GB RAM.
5|Its was awesome..
5|Fantastic product
5|it's good product
1|Poor battery life
1|not upto the mark
5|Simple the best..
5|I M LOVIN IT..;-)
2|Phone is almost good but they cheat with some one plus x user ....in details they show internal memory is 16GB but actual is 11.25GB. How could it possible ...I have 2pc ..same position in both..you can check all review most have same problem..so don't buy untill you don't get answer regarding this
1|hanging problems
5|Awesome phone ..
4|Invite available
4|Headphone mising
4|Accordind price range mi4i is best than this. Because both are similar nd fullfill our needs upto some extent.both phones r not compatible for dual sim nd mico sd. My choice is mi4i. Try once then feel the difference. Dont attract the specification nd pics given by company.
1|Heating problem
5|Awesome Product
5|Value for money
5|Amazing mobile.
5|just buy now...
1|Don't buy this phone.Oneplus x is a joke.Oneplus claims that it has the same processor which oneplus one has but thats not the case.Instead it has snapdragon 801AA. This version of the processor has an underclocked gpu and ram performance is also poor.I have tried many games all of them lag in it.So don't buy it if you are expecting good performance from this phone.Especially in games
1|Not satisfied
1|Not satisfied
1|Average phone
1|Not worth it.
5|Good phone. .
5|Awesome phone
5|Awesome Phone
5|Awesome Phone
5|It's not a phone, beast from one plus, Everything amazing BUILD QUALITY =ONE PLUS NO LAG NO HEATS UP NO BLOATWARE Totally Awesome and good build quality product from One plus
5|Awesome cell
1|Its not good
1|Worst mobile
1|not so happy
5|This is the best phone until in this range If you want to perfect Mobile then in 17000/- this is for you I have One plus X invite if anybody want then contact me on my mail I'd a.a.sharma1982@gmail. com
5|
5|Best phone in 17000/-. Product quality is good, Google OS need improvement like calling take time, i am selling one plus x invite in Rs 4000/- . interested, Contact on pareshgis@gmail.com.
3|Contact me. jaiswal.rohit6@gmail.com and whtapp no. 9966565427. This phone is real beast with beauty. Dual sim and 4g enabled is awesome. Battery backup and camera are very nice. Contact me.
1|Atlast oneplus also made a copy of iphone didnt expected this from oneplus I am also a user of oneplus one but i was expecting smeting new but the design of oneplus x is copy of iphone
5|Good phone
5|Satisfied!!
1|Sub standard OS for the price .And less than adequate battery performance. Could be a hardware as well as a software issue. I only used to get 8 hours of usage on mixed moderate use.
3|Rear Camera, display is very good but for me 1. One of the speaker is not working, 2. Overheating problem only after 2 hrs. of uses 2. Front Camera clarity not upto the mark 3. Video is lagging sometime. 4. Android 5.1 inbuilt flappy bird game is also lagging. Finally I am going to return the phone
5|Nice phone
4|Nice phone
5|Perfect!!!
5|Ekdum fadu
5|best phone
3|Very beautiful.. Trying to own Oxygen UI... It's not an user friendly UI...at the same time not that much hard too.. . Over all nice product..
1|Very Poor Quality of this phone . Ear speaker not working properly at all. And when I opened that phone from package after recieving there was a mark on screen.
1|Worst product
1|The right speaker is not working for the phone. And it has been just 15 days to this phone. Really disappointed. The products replacent window was also shut.
5|The phone is bang on good. I have a spare invite. Let me know if anyone wants to use at +9811118257. Please note that the invite would cost you Rs. 500.
5|Awesome !
5|Excellent
1|Returned the phone back due to SD card issues. Card not detected. Also gets heated up on playing simple game like "two dots "
5|I have bought this phone. Shipped. Product awaited . I have one more invite.in case anyone wants it email me at akichawla01@gmail.com
1|I was thinking to buy one plus x phone since a week and sent request for invite but didn't get any code .so now thinking to buy another phone ...I am so disappointed with invite n one plus is loosing a customer
5|Awesome!
1|Not good
1|Very bad
5|Good buy
5|Awesome!
1|Boring.
5|One plus X mobile invite for very low cost...only 200 rupees Invite valid till 21st Nov.. Hurry.. Contact me ASAP @91-9769167041
4|Perfect mobile for most of the users. Most satisfied with its display, sound. A handy mobile with all features except NFC.
5|Top Notch Phone ....!!! If any needs an invite really bad and couldn't find one do whatsapp me @ 9446641457
3|This product have Major problem i.e automatically rebooting for 2hrs.I haven't received earphones in this mobile box
4|His one plus x hve white colour....... Bcoz wile I search case I can see white with gold it's awesome pls help me
4|Got an invite Price 1300 negotiable What's app or call 9566198849 Email : vigneshkrissh95@gmail
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|Awesome
5|Performance, looks, standard specs, best price.... And fast delivery by Amazon... I am really satisfied...
4|good one
1|looks & build quality is really good. but there is lot of issue in software and missing functionality.
5|I need one plus x invite any one have pls share 9985958323-whatsapp me or rashad_benetton@yahoo.co.in
1|This is not a worth product. Phone is getting hanged very frequently & processing in not at all good.
5|Only concern is with the battery its draining fastly, otherwise awesome phone with awesome features.
1|Battery Backup is very poor and sound quality is also very poor and remaining are all marvelous...
2|I have an invite expiring tomorrow but don't need it.punk7x@gmail.com Only people from pune will be entertained..
4|I have an extra invite...if anyone is in need contact me @8144221542 and you need to pay a little
1|Sucks!
5|superb
4|Do share one invite...I really need it..please.. Ur sharing will be highly appreciated..
4|if someone need invite whatsapp me on 9010805182 hurry up time is running out .. :)
1|don't have Apps to SD . fingerprint magnate .. Type C connector and 32 bit processor.
5|I have an invite just for 500.....if anyone is interested WhatsApp me 8097856208
4|I hv an extra invite to sell, interested ones can WhatsApp me @ 8144221542
5|Happy
3|It is cdma + gsm ? One plus X working with reliance cdma net work ?
5|Looking so good....I think its features give us a amazing experience
4|Nice. Phone Any one wants invite pm me.... 9892894868 whatsapp me..
1|Getting heated and system updates are not downloading through WiFi.
4|got an invite to share....whtsapp at 9915762101...xcellent specs :)
5|If anyone need invite , mail me !! At manuja.mohit1@gmail.com
2|If anybody requires one plus x invite, contact me on 9860138716
1|My phone's one speaker is not working is it with every phone??
1|Just got the phone , Opened and checked back camera not working
4|OnePlus X INAF-1693-C2BD-9C7B Claim within 3 days!
1|I received a faulty piece....not expected dis frm one plus
1|I recieved a faulty phone so i returned......also its bad
4|Good
4|Good
5|Awesome phone!! Need an invite? Contact me on 8696609909
3|Anybody want invite contact through Whatsapp 9035584074
3|if u want invite contact me at chitapureusama gmail.com
1|Camera was not working out of the box- had to return
2|Not much facilities available as per one plus 1 or 2
1|Camera is not working.... Ordered a replacement...
5|one plus x invite available - whatsapp 8460607740
1|invite issue is nonsence stupide thing .
4|Invite for 1+x @ Rs200.mail @ grdad1990@gmail.com
1|I m having problem in microfone does not work
1|Bad
5|Faddu mobile hai , superd build quality
5|ined-a60e-73fa-6b9d - u can use this
1|My right speaker is not working
5|OnePlus X is a Beauty Beast.
3|Not getting Invitation ...
2|Ok
1|Ok
3|Hi
2|IN1B-EE06-1990-B853
5|Superb phone under 20k
1|The functions are complication. The feather touch buttons at the bottom of the phone are not been seen. Its not user friendly. One has to be careful while using. It is little costly too. There are not ven any nice apps inbuilt like Apple or Samsung phones.
1|Poor invite section
5|IN88-A6EC-8ABA-8639
4|in2c-c715-ce15-cdee
1|This phone is soo ugly and does not have any good features waste of money, guys do not buy this phone, please wait for xiaomi mi 5 until February 8th
1|Invites!! Stupid
1|INE5-4A29-3BCD-FC50 dont beg for invite 2 anyone..happy diwali.. one star for bad invite system
5|I got an invite for one plus x, anyone in need can mail me at shivamstar73@gmail.com
3|I hv one invite for opx anybody want .plz whatappp on 9431586361 or mail to dr.sitanshumahan@gmail.com
5|Does anyone need an invite for oneplus x contact me valid up to 21st November 2015 PH : 9496096186
5|Fantastic
4|Awesome
5|If you get an invite, just go for it! The best decision I made :)
5|got an invite. Contact 8271153599 for getting it at 1000.
4|Have invite for opx . Contact pillaiganesh.89@gmail.com
5|Awesome phone... Equally awesome service by Amazon.
1|I got invite but is showing invalid we tried
4|One plus one and mi4 is better option .
5|Awesome phone.....
1|Price is best but inbuilt memory and battery life is too low. According to my experience we need below 5 inches display, minimum 32 gb of inbuilt memory and above 3000 mah battery for a best smartphone...
1|Copy At its best
5|HIHELLOBOLKE
1|The invite thing has led me to buy another phone
3|I have one plus x 3 invitation.....mail me ksbana@gmail.com
1|Worst
1|Cant wait for coupons, rather shift to another phone..when chose is given, keep it open
1|I am a mad about gadgets and hence i made a purchase of One plus X without thinking twice as i have already seen the magic of One plus 1, beside that the kind of Rating it has i thought its a flagship model in this price range. But Genuinely when i got this piece of S**T in my hand, i was absolutely amazed to see that it just a little bit of high configuration this mobile has. If you are thinking that you will find the customization in this piece of One plus forget it. Why one should spend around 17K on the handset which doesn't have customization at all. I am not the one who consider camera over all other feature. Major Cons : Fake Dual Speaker : Yes for those who are not aware about it. Let me inform you, though it is seen that one plus x has dual speaker, It has only one speaker (Mono) and other one is just a microphone (Confirmed with One plus customer care). Memory : When you will get the handset you can check out the memory in storage you will find only 11.54 GB of total memory is available. On connecting to One plus customer care they said once you upgrade the handset to latest version of Oxygen OS you will see the total 16GB. I haven't done that cuz i was not sure if you i do it, i can still ask for refund (Pl'z confirm this with seller) It is Just Basic Handset demanding too much for what it is not worth. I understand that it has got plenty of positive review but i understood that it must have been given by those who are using the Android platform for the first time ( No Offence). Overall I don't consider it worthy.if you are spending this much, raise your budget a little bit and buy One plus one if it is still running on Cyanogen. Good Luck
1|If you use two SIMs, then you cant use Micro SD card, because of the same slot for SIM and memory car. MIt means any body use two SIM that cant use memory card....!!! its seems like past mobile era of a single SIM....!!
1|What the hell !!!!! Why launch a product with software issues ! The SD is detected but you cant move an App to it . You can move files and browse it in file manager. I did a quick search on the forum and got to know that the issue in software is real. Go check out the forum. But the build quality is okay.
3|Purana phone.
1|What the hell !!!!! Why launch a product with software issues ! The SD is detected but you cant move an App to it . You can move files and browse it in file manager. I did a quick search on the forum and got to know that the issue in software is real. Go check out the forum. But the build quality is okay
5|anybody want one plus x invite i have invite and its cost 1000 Rs. message me on 8470082292
1|Mobile companies are coming out with ingenious ways to sell their phones.. But and invite is pushing it a little too far.. This phones doesn't have anything special that sets it apart from others.. Surprised
5|lucky to get k4 in the first sale itself and it ws worth the effort. The build is classy!! It looks like a premium phone.Though some people may argue about the big screen size but it's nice.The resolution is crystal clear. Camera quality is pretty impessive.Even the front camera takes nice snaps and that tok in low light.Looking at the features lik 3B ram and octa core processor,there is no need to say it won't lag though I haven't tried high end games.But the best feature is the battery.3300 mAh battery is a monster!!!Due to the dual front speaker supporting Dolby Atmos,sound is pretty much clear and crisp.What else can u xopct frm a phone priced 11999!! Issues like heating etc will only be seen after few days and I wish that doesn't happen.I wish it wud have come along with earphones.Just a screen guard and back cover is all what u get.However the charger sometimes annoys u while connecting at the USB port.It gets stuck and in order to take it out,you need to apply some power.Else d phone is too coool!!
1|WTF....... one plus said usb Type-C as future proofed in OnePlusTwo... Now in one plus X they are using micro usb v2.o...This is not fair.
1|Battery backup is very low I won't recommend this product to any one Go oneplus2 better
1|its not dual sim with external mirco SD card. if you are using dual sim then only 16 GB is very less. or else use single sim.
1|Price is way too high according to market with that specs :(
1|A bad mobile . Some dumb mobile , very heavy ,no good features,very bad camera , not a good screen
1|I can't even read anyone's comments...I have to buy this without knowing the cons...
1|The phone lacks the major feature cynogen mode. The phone does not support 64 GB memory card.You can check the link for that https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kVburs-ayls It does not worth 17k price. I wont recommend this mobile for any 1. It lags and heats up also.
1|MAIN FINGER PRINT SCANNER MISS SO
1|it is a useless mobile. Similar to Iphone 6 which is also a useless mobile & even worst than 1+
1|Not good
1|I bought the One plus one 3 months back. I cant buy a new phone every three months. Oneplus team should understand and schedule new launches accordingly.
