5|Been using this external HD for the Wii U for a couple months now. Works great without any complaints. Nice small form factor. If you're looking for one to hook up to a Wii U or any other console, make sure you get an A to micro B USB 3.0 cable.
4|This drive had the best price for a 1TB drive. I like the USB 3.0 and that it worked on a mac for time machine backups.
4|The dorms don't really get good reception, but this really helps.
5|Easy and fast setup. Almost plug n play. Then it is set it and forget it.
5|It's good to use. And looks very good. And it's not expensive.
5|Economical, small, single-cord external drive, and works great.
5|Small. Resonably priced and large storage. What more do you want? I have about 4 other seagate hard drives, i've never had a problem with them. ( knock wood).
5|This is easy to use and has plenty of room for daily back up of our business files, including accounting and data bases. Just plug it in, save tons of stuff and free up space on your computer.
5|It is a great external hard drive for the price. Bought on black friday for $39.99. Purchased it for a secondary option to be able to place another copy of pictures and other important items on it so that I can put it in the safe deposit box.
5|Needed to purchase this because the memory on our X Box was full. Not sure why this is required.
5|Never used external hard drive! Super simple to use! Sorry I procrastinated for so long :)
5|Easy to set up and a great price! Works great on my iMac.
5|I have near 20 of these over 8 years and every one of them still works , I can't say that for the toshiba ones I have ! SEAGATE IS # 1
5|I'm using it to back up my server. I have 2 of them, and I use the Acronis backup software. I switch them each day, 1 is off site, and the other is being used for that day's backup.
5|I bought this hard drive to be used with a Tablo DVR based on a list of drives which Tablo had recommended. It was very easy to install and the formatting and use of it went very smoothly.
4|Got this for myself and I love it. Have no problems with this product.
4|The external hard drive meets my needs. Using to backup and transfer files.
5|Works great. Its awesome. Its what I waa looking forward.
5|Needed to reimage a couple of computers and this made the process so much easier since they didn't have disc drives.
5|As mentioned had already completed my due diligence before purchasing Seagate TB 1 and work's perfectly.
5|I use this as a backup to my backup. When its plugged into my computer it runs smooth. Its lightweight which makes it easy to transport in my backpack.
5|I compared and decided upon this product. It has been fine.
5|I purchased this because I already had a Seagate back up drive that was almost full so wanted a bigger storage capacity. I was surprised initially when I saw how small it was. I like the slim design.
5|Great product! I was able to get 10,000+ pictures off my computer and now they're safely stored! Super easy!
5|I loved it...it performed beyond my expectations!!
5|Our consultants required portable, easy to manage, presentable, reliable storage... This product met their requirements. They believe in Seagate's reliability.
5|I needed more storage for my Xbox One. Customer service rep suggested this drive as he used it for his Xbox as well. Works great. Happy with purchase.
5|This has a simple USB connection and was very easy to transfer my data from my PC and laptop!!!
5|Needed a reliable hard drive to use for a backup. Does the job really well!
5|Setup was easy, and worked exactly as I needed it to work. I would buy another if needed.
5|This hard drive is easy to set up and has lots of space. It is perfect for backing up family photos.
4|Pretty simple and straight forward. Backs up data quick
5|I bought 4 of these on sale to use as back up for our computers and all 4 have worked flawlessly.
5|Love the product. Compact and powerful. I back my computer and iPhone photos easily to the external hard drive
5|My daughter reports no problems now for about 3 months of use.
3|The product works well; but the user interface is lousy. The instructions on a thumb drive are much better.
4|Needed an external hard drive for photo storage (was Christmas gift). Seagate produces a good quality hard drive and the unit was competitively priced and in stock.
4|The product was a great accessory to add much needed space to the xbox one.
4|it has been good additional storage for my computer.
5|This hard drive has a very good capacity for the money. I bought it for my daughter. She has been very happy with it.
5|Got this to copy files from dying laptop. easy to use and now using to backup new computer.
5|Had to get for my mom to put all her digital photos
5|Works beautifully in tandem with his XBOX so that he could access the full game.
4|I bought this external drive so I would have a place to store movies. It is easy to set up and has plenty of space.
5|This was a great purchase, It is an excellent product!
2|This was supposed to be easy to use with Mac's but it is not quite as simple as it says.
5|Copied all of my files from my dying laptop without having to load them all on to my new laptop. Very quick very convenient and nice and small.
5|Works great and never had any issues with it. Highly recommend it.
4|It was my Christmas gift for my son, he needs it and he wanted the brand because according to him seagate is a good brand.
5|This device was practically and plug and done. I needed to back up my data to transfer to my new computer and it worked perfectly. Now I have a back up for all of my music and photos too.
5|Bought this external hard drive to run computer backups and, so far, have not had any problems.
5|It does what I need it to. Stores data well. No trouble seeing it. Just plug and play with windows 7.
5|I purchased the portable hard drive because of the limited drive space on my laptop. I'm happy to state that it has worked out great and the design of the drive makes it very portable.
4|Easy to use. Support was very good when a question was asked.
5|It was a good recommendation from the store associate.
5|This is my third Seagate backup drive. The Seagate drives install easily and have performed exactly as I needed. I use it for automatic backup &amp;amp; manual backup. I use 1 drive to backup my server &amp;amp; 1 to backup my PC. This drive is being used for additional backup &amp;amp; will be stored off-site.
5|Purchased this so I could copy files to transfer to another console that is at a home away from home in another state. Nice and compact but lots of memory storage.
5|This is a great storage device. Easy to set up and use! Helped me free up space on my devices.
5|provides a lot of file storage.very satisfied with product
4|It is good, I hope it continues to work for a long time
2|I purchased this unit for my son just prior to his deployment. He told me that it broke during his 2nd week of use. I haven't had a chance to return it as he won't be back for awhile. We've had other Seagate drives and items that worked great for years, so we assume it is defective. However, the only bad reviews we found were the exact same issue. Next review will be about how accommodating they are with the return/repair.
4|Product seems to be working fine. I was impressed with the speed with which it performed the backup.
5|Ease to use and it is a life saver because I never get the error message that I have used all my memory like I did with a regular flash stick
5|The item is operational as described. Great value for the price. Will purchase enthrone soon.
5|It is small and easy to use. It can be used as a continuous backup or as a snapshot which gets it out of the way.
5|I've been wanting to get a reliable, compact portable hard drive. This Seagate model is the Backup Plus Slim and it can store up to one TB with continuous back-up. It also came with a bonus 200 GB of cloud storage on One Drive. It had a 4-star rating with C-Net. I would definitely recommend this product. I ordered online with in-store pick-up for fast, free delivery.
3|Have been generally happy with Seagate products. The only thing I haven't liked about them (lately) is the built in backup software. Older versions seemed more intuitive and was easier to use. The current backup software is glitchy and unnecessarily difficult.
4|Amazing product I was able to back up all my music, documents, videos, and files.
5|I was looking for an alternative to the multitude of DVD's. Needed something roomy, portable and separate to back up all of my desktop computer files. Not only does it reduce the number of DVD's I burn through - the file transfer is quick and easy.
5|Plug and play, very portable and tons of space, everything you could want!
5|Very easy to use. Very convenient and great for the price
5|Easy to set up and use. Small size fits great in my laptop bag.
5|I love these Slims. As my second one, I'm really satisfied with them. I primarily switch both drives as bi weekly backups to my files, and they travel well if I need to work from the laptop.
5|I've had Seagate external drives in the past that I really liked, so when I needed another one it wasn't hard to pick it over the others. I compared it to what else was available, and there wasn't anything that stood above it. The drive has met all of my expectations that I had when purchasing it. It has more than adequate space for my needs and it's plenty fast with the USB-3 connection. You can't go wrong with this one.
4|Did the job as expected and is easy to use. Great security for my data.
5|Good, no issues or complaints. I would definitely recommend it to my friends!
5|I needed a back up device primarily for my MacBook Air, I purchased this because it can also be used to back up Facebook photos, and I have a lot of photos on Facebook. I've been pleased with this product so far and would definitely recommend it.
5|Very reasonably priced for the security to know you've got a back up!
5|I love the size and capacity of this hard drive. The Seagates have been more reliable then all of my hard drives on the past.
5|If you are looking for an awesome and fast new external hard drive, this one will fulfill all your needs. That's our second and for sure I'll buy more of this if I need it.
5|Love this. It is speedy, interfacing with USB3. Woks well on USB2, but the speed on USB3 is great! considering getting another.
5|this is a great product. I bought it for my son who was looking to back up all his stuff.
4|was referred to me by a friend. Seems easy to use and very compact.
5|I loved the thin shape and it holds a lot of memory for all of my pictures .. Good price
5|I needed an efficient, portable and capable external system and the Seagate system met my needs.
5|I bought this device for my wife to backup her Mac Book Air. Although she is proficient with a computer she does not want to deal with devices that have a lengthy or complicated setup process. She was able to plug it into her USB port and click the "Time Machine" button in her Systems Preferences menu and was up and running. She was pleasantly surprised with how easy it was to start using it. So far it has performed excellently and the price for the device was also excellent. I could have spent 3 to 4 times as much for a comparable device and I'm not convinced they would perform any better. I have a more expensive device I bought a few years ago and from what I have seen this device for my wife functions as well as the more expensive one.
5|Very easy to use and will hold lots of memory. Very good investment.
3|I purchased this hard drive to hold photos. I have about 6000 between laptop, tablet and smart phone. But no idea if it will actually hold all of them. The transfer process is a little tedious, but if I can store all, I'll be happy. Actually disappointed in the lack of clear instruction (for a non-geek type like me) beyond initial plug in. So far it seems to be doing what it's suppose to do.
5|The best brand in the business, you cannot go wrong with the reliability of Seagate!
5|My lacie hard drive decided to be a piece of junk and start messing up so I decided to buy a new external hard drive and purchased this one, was able to transfer all of my stuff over from my lacie to this one and haven't had any issues with this one yet!
5|Very happy with the amount of storage for the price
5|Got this drive to do 16 track recording of an annual music reunion. Didn't have the levels hot enough last year, (wasn't able to put the notebook running the software in a location I could reach, while playing keyboards). Will fix that this year. Should be able to record several more editions on this drive.
5|This slim and small portable drive is great to have in your gear bag or on your desk
5|wanted to be sure we saved all of our pictures. it was very easy to set up
5|Purchased this for my sister in law for her photo backup. It works great, and the software worked seamlessly with WIn 10 home.
4|I needed extra storage for my Xbox one &amp;amp; was looking to buy an external hard drive, when l found this one on sale I was a little unsure if it would work, so I read a few of the reviews &amp;amp; saw that a few other people had bought this for the same thing. I'm actually thinking about getting another one for my Xbox 360.
5|Anyone looking for a solid external drive for laptop or even XBOX One Seagate does not disappoint! Very easy to use just plug and play! One important note this drive is super light and easy to travel with if needed.
5|This is a portable device that is capable to hook up to my xbox one for extra storage space. It also came with 200gb cloud storage when registering the product.Overall great product and dose what I need it to.
5|works great for what I was looking for and application
5|I bought this for my Xbox One and it plugged in and was instantly recognized. Not a single issue.
5|Cloud service personal or enterprise need reliable devices to hold our files together.
4|It is good but does not come with a cover. Also the cord is short,
5|This hard drive is great for storing all of my photos in one place. Easy to use.
4|Super easy to use and tons of storage. Purchased for my wife to use with her Mac.
5|Worked straight out the box and continues to do so
5|Bought this for my grandson for Christmas and he is going to use it for gaming. He loves it.
5|Bought this before I sent my Mac off for a repair. Once you format for the Mac, it's a breeze to back up via time machine or just to back up certain files on demand. Easy to connect and pull files as needed from backups as well. Good price too for the amount of memory.
5|Seagate external hard drive is quick and easy to use. I set it up, and haven't thought about it since.
5|The representative listened to my needs and put me into the right product.
5|Its slim which works great for traveling with not heavy nor bulky . It's easy to use and access backup data quickly.
4|Good price for extra storage. Easy to use. Very small and saves space.
5|A must to either back-up or make portable my data.
5|Good basic external hard drive for backing up my files.
5|Great product to store my media and works wonderful for backup. Takes up less room by my desktop and can be used for laptop also.
4|Used it in a ps4 and it's amazing! Would definitely recommend this to anyone.
5|Excellent product. Works great. Plug and play, works immediately.
5|I gave this as a gift to my niece. She had it up and running in 10 minutes, and was transferring files with no issue. Great way to save files and get more room on your computer!
4|The external hard drive was easy to use. Simple on screen instructions.
5|great price for a 1TB drive, fast backup of large files.
5|Couldn't be happier, this external syncs fast and plays great had media
5|This external hard drive does a great job. It's compact so it needs very little space. I dont have to do much with it because it knows what to do , so I don't really need to think about it or wonder if it's doing its job. It's a great little hard drive and a very necessary part of my equipment.
5|For the price, this drive really cannot be beat. No compatibility issues, easy to use. Bought this to replace an old Hitachi drive that was full. Would buy it again.
4|its a back up to my back up and its small and travels well.
5|It holds all the pictures and music I have and I still have tons of space left!
5|Best hard drive I've purchased in years. Great price.
5|This item was very easy to use. Exactly what I needed!
5|Was very happy with this drive, once I figured out how to format it to Fat32 for use as a backup for my ps3 / ps4, has plenty of space a great back up drive
5|Bought this to supplement the storage on my wife's computer. At 1TB will be able to back-up her's and mine as well, giving us a 3rd back-up for both.
5|works flawlessly on my mac desktop for backups. low profile and self powered.
5|Lots of Storage for back up, especially nice for photos
5|Connected to USB port and fast and easy. Works seamlesssly.
5|Connected to a Windows 10 PC. Fired right up. No configuration needed. Good and fast.
3|Doesn't work with windows 10. Customer service said they had not worked out the kinks so they had to walk me through a different process. Would gave chosen a different product had I known.
5|I recently purchased a seagate portable hard drive. I am please with the product.
5|My son in law wanted this for Christmas and told me what to buy
4|Good product at a good price. Works as I expected it to.
4|Top quality - highly recommended - this portable hard drive completed my download quickly and the directions were extremely easy to follow
5|There's so much room for activities!! I used to carry a key chain with 8 flash drives. Now I only need to carry this and it's so small.. it's awesome..
4|DIDN'T NEED MORE THEN THIS.STILL HAVE ENOUGH ROOM FOR MORE INFO.
5|I like this drive and the backup software functions a lot better than the Western Digital software. I returned my WD drive.
5|Easy to install , directions clear and concise. I did have some issues but they were computer related, not device related. Right amount of storage for my needs.
4|As bonus 200GB cloud storage and after 2 years you can't upload anymore, data will be read-only, that at least is better than deleted. Drive itself is ok and it appeared as USB attached SCSI (UAS) Mass Storage Device, which is different than most usb drives.
4|Does it job quite well. For the proce, great deal. I would suggest this item to others. Lot of memory for the price.
4|I like the fact that's so slim yet packed 1TB of storage. Price was also very good for the storage space.
5|This external hard drive is thin and can easily be carried out. So far, it appears to be reliable in backing up data. I have not had any issues with it so far.
4|Great product work great but to set up online a bit tricky but great
5|Excellent for storage and back up. Fast and great quality product.
5|Bought three of these to load old vacation videos as a gift for each of my children. Very simple to load files to and an easy way to preserve memories.
5|Using it for extra storage for my Xbox one. It's fast, quiet and reliable.
5|Great hard drive. Easy to use and a lot of space. Needed to transfer files to new computer.
5|purchased because of recommendation on channel master website and it works great and the price was close to online but I purchased at BB
4|I bought this hard drive to back up all of my data from a windows machine to convert to a mac. however, I can't back up my mac to it with out reformatting the drive. Anyway, it was easy, simple, plug and play which was exactly what I was looking for.
4|Installion a breeze .Directions for use a little deep for novice like my self.
4|It works fine...plenty of capacity, quick connect, fast data transfer.
5|Used to use flash drives to back up but never enough capacity especially when a person has a huge amount of pictures to back up. Learned a very important lesson to always back up. In the past lost about a years worth of pictures after hard drive crashed. Used flash drives after used CDs
5|Seagate provides reliable performance as always. A thin compact drive that is easily transported with you providing large amounts of external space.
5|This product is easy to install and use. The price was super cool and I will buy this product again as the need arises.
5|Was a very easy way to back up photos from my camera, 2 phones and laptop.
5|This is my 3rd one. I bought 2 more for family members so they can back up their computers also.
5|As an instructor, this drive holds everything I need and runs pretty fast.
5|Meets expectations for the photo storage I desired. reasonable price.
4|I bought this when the hard drive on my all in one computer started failing. It was really simple to register and start using.
5|Was very easy to use. If I can use this, anyone can.
5|Nice, compact portable one terabyte drive that is useful for picture and video storage for laptops or desktops.
5|Great hard drive! Very portable and light. Would recommend to anyone who needs a drive to store things especially during travel.
5|Great for X box 1, great price ,, sale people very helpful.
5|Needed to back up my pc drives before upgrading to a laptop. Easy plug and play, and decent transfer speed for a usb 5400rpm.
5|Today's laptops do not have enough storage for pictures and videos, so it is helpful to have an external storage.
5|Was very easy to install on my sons Xbox one. Would highly recommend
5|Bought as gift because so happy with mine, easy set up and no problems. highly recommend.
5|It was very easy to use and stores a lot of files, pictures, and videos
5|Bought 2 of these for Christmas gifts. Seagate external drives are reliable and compact....great product.
4|The Seagate is very easy to use. I am a senior and didn't have any trouble using it. It is compatible with my laptop and my iMac desktop. It's so nice to store all of my pictures on....I have over 2,000 so now I know they are safely stored in case my computer crashes. The price was good, too.
5|When I bought this it was on sale for $60. It was a great deal for an extra 1tb of space. I mainly got it to use with my xbox one and its been perfect for that so far!
5|Works great! Replaced one I had purchased that was starting to fail
5|This drive worked-out so well for me I decided to pick-up another to give as a gift. The small form factor is great! Along without needing a separate power supply, and being relatively lightweight, it's very portable to boot. Unless you are certain you'll need more GBs, or otherwise have the money to spend on a larger size drive, 1TB should be plenty space for the average user, don't hesitate.
5|Works great. Easy to install. Small enough to carry anywhere.
5|I love it, and purchased the same model for my mother for one of her Christmas presents.
5|Good portable hard drive for traveling. Was able to carry all my music and movies on my road trip.
5|With 1TB of space, and USB 3.0 speed, there are so many uses for this drive. The USB 3.0 works to get items onto or off of the drive FAST. The small size lets you take it anywhere (like in your coat pocket). Super fast and super small. Until they have a cheap 1TB flash drive, this is the best you can get!
4|Great backup drive that works just as it was advertised.
5|I needed to buy a portable hard drive to back up a portion of the files I have. I wanted something fast, sleek and easy to use. This drive fit exactlywhat i needed!
3|Setting up the drive was easy and it picked all what was needed. I simply could not complete the task since the actual laptop drive was broken. Overall it is easy to setup.
5|really fast connection with my computer . Easy to use and no need of any program installation
5|This Seagate 1TB External drive work greats for bringing home huge 5 and 10 GB ISO files from school and for making large, multi-gigabyte backups of my laptop.
5|This eagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black is very good and worth buying.
5|Small and fast. Help out with so much pictures i have on my phone and tablets...
5|I like that im able to save allot of games from the xbox one and that it has incuded the cloud storage.
5|It's small and compact. I haven't used it yet but I like he size
5|Really like this small piece of storage equipment. Great brand, speedy and compact - perfect in your pocket or place out of the way on your desk, you won't feel or see it. Nice!
4|I really like the ease of use and how compact it is.
5|works great as seagate usually does. usb 3.0 is fast
5|I have two other external hard drives but I love this one because of how small and thin it is. It was also a great price! I also love that it did a back up of over 22 gb in about 30 minutes. If it was my other external HD it would have taken about 3 hrs.
5|This external hard drive is exceptional in storage, function and portability. It was very easy to start using with very minimal research on it. It has a large amount of storage and is so handy to be able to take it anywhere being that it's small enough to fit in your purse, backpack or pocket even.
5|I Got a bunch, they are cheap without being cheaply made.
5|I use it for backup photos and video. Very easy to use and it is inexpensive, especially purchased online. Don't know why in store price is higher.
5|I have stored a lot of stuff and it is very easy to use.
3|Works well for the purpose I wanted it for. Using it as a backup.
5|An absolutely perfect solution to our problem. We bought a new Xbox One, with the internal 500GB storage. This is most certainly not enough storage, even for the average gamer. Having this device as an accessory to make up for much needed storage was just what we needed!
5|Slim and quiet. This external should be exactly what I needed.
4|Seagate external hard drive is good and does the job
5|Needed additional data storage and was looking for a small unit. Was surprised when I received it at just how small it was. Very portable and easy to use.
4|Easy to use and store away. Great for game storage
5|Now Im able to take backup of all my important docs and pics
1|Got it for more memory for our game system and was told at the store that this item can do it. Well, it didn't! Wasted a lot of time at home trying to get it to work only to find out when returning it at store that you can't use it for as PS4. Bummer.
5|This is one of the best portable disks in the market, we use it all the time to back up information of our server !!!
5|This a great size and is easy to move from computer to computer
5|Great size and works perfectly. Very small footprint but with a great amount of storage.
5|A good looking, slim portable hard drive, and if you can use USB 3.0, it's much faster than older USB 2.0 drives. At $50 for the 1 TB, it was an excellent value, too. If you need more room (and who doesn't?) consider the 2 TB drive for not a whole lot more.
5|It's a really good hard drive and I love it so much! Sure I will recommend it to my friends.
5|I'll keep it simple...Costs a little. Stores a lot!!!
4|I needed a hard drive to back up all my data as my computer was getting slow. This provided all my storage needs, and it is compatible with both Mac and PC (I have both), and at a great price too. It also comes with ample free cloud storage as well (200 GB free for 2 years). I definitely recommend this.
4|Good product to go with. I would also suggest others to follow me
5|Our club has several documents stored on members private computers. Every time we change officers we are required to transfer those documents to new computers. We decided to put all the documents on an external drive which would make it much easier when we have to change club officers. This drive is perfect for that.
5|I purchased this item because I needed backup. This item works as described. Fantastic!
5|serves the purpose that I purchased the item for--
5|This replaces an older Seagate unit with a smaller capacity. It came at a reasonable cost, easy to set up, and offered 2 TB memory -- that met my needs so I did not do any comparison shopping. I was pleasantly surprised to find it backed up some programs as well as my files.
5|Very compact, just the right amount of space for our needs, price was right.
4|I'm not very technical, but this was very easy to use.
4|Seems to work as described. It is 1gb external hard disk. No problems so far...
5|Used to shuttle media from Pittsburgh to NYC. Quick transfer, low cost. I use g-drives to edit anything big, but drive will probably work well for small projects.
5|This product is a no brainier to use. Just plug it in and you are ready to go. I travel with it because it is small and light.
5|Just plug and start backing up your computer. Easy to use and easy to see contents stored
5|Great hard drive. Compact to carry around. Great price value
5|Nice save storge and carry it so lightly. Love it.
5|I have purchased four of the Seagate back-ups for office, home and mobile use. Excellent product. It is Plug and Play.
5|Great product for the price. More than enough storage for my needs.
4|What I wanted was a terabyte hard drive. Not only did I not read the device name properly, or the description, I also didn't read any of the reviews. As a back up hard drive, I'd say it's pretty good.
4|Looks great and works great. Gave one more as a Christmas gift to friend.
5|Excellent Drive! Lightweight, small, and transfers data fast!
3|It was indicated in the product specifications that this is compatible with Mac and Windows..I have to format it three times before it worked with the iMac.
5|Perfect for what I need at work to consolidate lots of files
5|I have purchased Seagate hard drives over any other brand for years now due to there superior quality. I am very please with this drive, it provides a lot of capacity for a small purchase price. If you are looking for a lot of band for your buck...look no further.
4|Protects the portable hard drive when traveling and need to carry the drive with
5|I am very satisfied with the Seagate Plus Slim USB portable hard drive.
5|As with any 1Tb drive I love it. Tons of storage but best part is the onedrive boost of 200gb cloud. 1.2tb for the price of 1
4|Instructions could be alittle better but over all a good product
4|The drive has plenty of space for files and is easy to use.
5|Great hard drive. I have had no problems using it on my Mac and PC.
5|I bought this on black Friday at a great price. I was looking for a small but good external for my laptop that I use at work and home but now I just have to take this external and I'm good the best part is that is so compact and light weight. I love it and haven't had a problem. I haven't figured out how to back up my phone but I'll figure it out.
5|The drive works great and does what I expects. I would recommend.
5|perfect solution for my son's college laptop. No need for an internet connection to the cloud, plug it in to a USB port and you are good to go.
5|This portable hard drive is easy to set up and use. The software allows for backup of your data. The 1TB capacity allows for storage of many hours of video and thousands of pictures.
5|Works well especially when it is on sale. Color also matches everything else on my desk so it doesn't feel out of place.
5|Placed this in my PS4 with minimal effort and it works great!
5|I have been using this hard drive for two months without problems. I recommend this product
4|Works exactly for what I need. I caught it on a great sale and is very portable.
4|This product gets a good review from me. And would recommend.
4|I had no issues getting this connected to my computer!
5|I use one just like this for backing up my desktop computer and it's been flawless after a few years of use.
5|Good slim design and handy to carry anywhere.nice to have mobile backup included.
5|Good Product Thank you very much.............................................................
5|It is great for backing up stuff on my laptop and it is very compact and easy to use
5|I have used this as a back up for my xbox one and it is wonderful, makes my whole Xbox run faster!
3|Wish I would have read reviews first. It works really well as long as your in the same room, only get 20 feet away and signal decreased dramatically.
5|Great price perfect gift for my husband for chrismas
4|This is a very good decision i made when i perched this product!!
3|Size and weight is great but it doesn't come with any case to protect it. It would be perfect if it was wrapped with some type of rubber case.
5|Works on both mac and pc just what i was looking for
5|Works well for storing movies on this hard drive and playing them through my tv or blu ray player. No issues with it.
5|I have two 1 TB drives for the wife and myself and a 2 TB drive to back up all 5 computers once a month plus a yearly full image of each one. Never hurts to have your data safeguarded.
5|This hard drive seems to be exactly what I was looking for - something to back-up my files on my computer in case of a big problem. My son-in-law helped me set it up in just a few minutes, and it has been working fine. We set it to do a back-up weekly (daily and monthly were also some options) and it did this for me. It is hidden unobtrusively behind my laptop, connected to a USB 3 port, and is silent. The connector cable is provided, contrary to what some reviewers have said. I am not a techie, so I needed something simple but trustworthy to do what it is supposed to do, and for backing up, this is it. It is also compact and appears sturdy.
3|Got this in the Thanksgiving deal. Impressive speed and response time..supports all file formats
5|I trust Seagate always. They are not making disappointed. I had failed couple Western digital external hdds, but Segate had never failed. Great product and long lasting.
5|I went into the store looking for a 500gb HD. This drive was cheaper than all the other 500gb drives and DOUBLE the space. I also like the style of this drive. Clean, slick, and slim. I ended up buying two.
5|I needed more storage for all of my files and this product had great reviews so glad I bought it.
4|Product is good with value for money and good deal offer
4|bought for our college student, but a bit hard to figure out how to see on the mac. it was the mac settings. all good now.
5|This ext HD has been my best friend for the last 2yrs. I cannot complain whatsoever.
5|This is my second Seagate Backup Plus portable drive &amp;amp; is a bit smaller than the 1st. I like the speed of the USB 3 &amp;amp; so far both have been 100% reliable. I use this as backup storage for my photos &amp;amp; videos but don't use automatic backup software.
5|I bought this for my son to dwonload all his stuff.
5|I've been in need of an external hard drive for awhile and the Seagate Backup Plus Slim is perfect for what I use it for. It's inexpensive, easy to use and is small and lightweight so it's easy to store. Very recommended.
5|It's so easy to install and worked perfectly, no problems so far
5|Bought this product because it seemed ease, quick, and painless. Great product; backs up automatically as scheduled, no programming issues, compact. Let me eliminate a cumbersome old backup drive. Terrific!
4|This hard drive is normally priced higher so this was a steal at the price I purchased it for. I use it to transfer video files for sports so it is pretty average in terms of transfer speed...I'm used to waiting anyways as I transfer GB's of video files onto it.
5|Did all it is supposed to do. The software installed instantly and has been working flawlessly.
5|Had to return first one, but so far this one works
5|Excellent gift for anyone on your digital friend's list
5|It works great!! No issues. My techs use it everyday!!
5|This drive is both USB 2.0 / 3.0 compatible. Honestly I would suggest it to anybody looking for an affordable external drive to store back-up information. No complaints!
5|Great shape, Great service, Great product!!!!!!!!!!
5|This item is awesome! Very slim and light. Compact and portable
3|Super slim and virtually no sound or heat generated. However, the Seagate backup software does not have a very intuitive interface and is not easy to use. Has a known flaw with Help key that causes the program to freeze.
5|The disk is performing very well and is very sleek. Plus a great price.
5|Great product great price. I use it to backup/store files the 3.0 speed saves a lot of time with big files.
5|When I went looking for a hard drive to be compatible for my x-box the rep that helped me was knowledgeable to my needs for the hard drive and highly suggested Seagate. Is all that was expected.
5|Good backup drive. Very stable and portable drive.
5|I have been using Seagate for years. Never had any problems of any kind whatsoever. Have used 1, 2, and 4 TB portable hard drives. Would highly recommend them to anyone. Great buy for the price.
4|I got this hard drive to use with my xbox one for the extra storage. It is plug and play so I didn't need any software to set it up. Overall it works great. Hopefully it will last longer than a year!
4|Truthfully haven't used it yet but Seagate is great product I don't think there will be issues
5|I use this to increase the storage on my Xbox one, which was only 500gb. Funny part is that this drive is faster than the hard drive on the Xbox itself.
5|This is an excellent device for backing up your data.
5|This works great with my Macbook Pro. Everything transfers so fast. You won't have to wait a long time to transfer gigabytes. I really like it that it comes with 2 years of 200GB online storage on OneDrive.
5|Easy to hookup. Backup is quick. Has lots of space. Comes with bonus material. Seagate does what it is supposed to without error. The slim design helps to minimize space taken up on desk while backing up PC.
5|product is what i needed but i had to return for more TB's
5|I've bought 3 different Toshiba external hard drives and each one crashed within 30 days, so after reading reviews I decided to try this one. I'm so glad I did! It's sleek, slim design makes taking it with me a breeze (my phone is bigger), and I've had no problems with it! I love it!
5|For 1TB, the price was great, especially since it was on sale and I got a free $10 gift card with it as well. Very happy with it.
5|Seagate makes a dependable product for backup on my computer. I thought this to be a good idea to purchase.
5|The external hard drive is easy to use on the initial start up. It also has the online option as well.
4|Bought as a gift for my son and have heard no complaints.
4|I ended up returning this product because I have about 3 TB's that I wanted to back up. I intended to use this to play movies on my TV via USB, but opted for a 4 TB hard drive as a 2nd backup drive for all my files.
3|I purchased this drive as an external backup drive. The packaging indicated that the drive was compatible with Windows 7 and up, but the backup software would not work with Windows 10. After dealing with the customer service, I returned the drive and got the Western Digital.
5|This portable hard drive is just the right size for my needs, it is very easy to set up and use. Reasonably priced.
5|Love it, definitely recommend this product to everybody
4|I love the size of this drive. I did find the software a bit confusing, though.
5|Wish I would of bought another one at this price. Amazing product save tons of stuff on here
5|I purchased one of these for myself a few months ago because - as I'm sure a lot of people struggle with - my devices were becoming too full of pictures, so I needed to buy a backup device that holds A LOT of stuff. This terabyte ext hard drive has given me no problems and is highly rated on the internet. I have no complaints and am so happy that I now have more space on my devices and that my pictures are safely stored forever. :)
4|I bought this yesterday after my mom's external hard drive didn't work for my new Mac and everything synced perfectly. Only issue is figuring out how to get the 200 free GB of One Drive storage to attach to my existing account with OneDrive. No real help guides on the website so I emailed Tech Support and am waiting on an answer.
5|I've been looking to buy a new external HDD for awhile now since my 5 year old one finally crashed. This new Seagate model is incredibly small and compares to the size of an iPhone 5s but a little wider. It comes with a bunch of features that I tend to not use but you might. My main purpose of owning an external HDD is to use it as a direct backup to me laptop and run a back up once a month to make sure everything is updated in case my laptop ever crashes. Great little external HDD, let's see how the test of time does with her.
5|This is a very easy way to back up your lap top. Plug and play
5|Bought this for my son and he said it is perfect for his laptop.
5|I bought this to back up all of my photos and files from an old laptop. Perfect for the job and a TON of space.
5|I wanted an easy to use backup for my photos and documents. This meets my needs and I don't have to feel anxious about losing them if my computer breaks down.
5|Exactly what I needed to clear up space from my laptop and office desktop.
4|The storage device stores data as it should! Good job!
4|this external is is exactly what you get. great amount of storage. i did have some issue installing the program and setting up an account with the backup feature. but overall good product
5|Nice small size...each of my children will get a hard drive with all their childhood photos on it.
5|This hard drive exceed my expectations. I needed more space on my hard drive and purchased this one to fix that problem. It is so small and light weight and super easy to install.
5|I had put off buying one for years, but now I wish I hadn't. Great price and easy to use.
5|It is a nice slim design. Works exactly as I need it to.
5|Great for adding extra storage to a laptop. I would have it attached to my work desktop to save files for backup.
5|This product fulfills our needs and the price was right!
5|My son wanted more memory for his Xbox 360 and this product is working great!
5|Very good small and slim Light weight . Pretty shape
5|I bought this for my wife. She loves that it is portable and easy to use.
5|I am able to backup two computers to this drive easily, which has allowed me to do clean and installs of Windows 10 on these computers
5|This Seagate External hard drive is fact and small enough to carry anywhere
5|I have a lot of photos and files on my computer dating back to 2010 and I would hate to lose any of that personal information
5|Bought this for extra program/game storage. Works perfectly and has a great small form factor.
4|Like the slim compact design but for me as a first time buyer of one of these you should really read up what is capable of of.
5|Great buy. Well built. No problems sofar. Price was great!
5|Very easy to use, practically just plug and play . I've got 2 units...
5|Satisfied with product, would suggest to others to buy.
4|Great product for the price. Aluminum top finish looks slick and seems to disperse heat well. With my usb add-on card, this is faster than my internal sata drive. I would have given 5 stars if the bottom rubber pads gripped the table better. it slides around a little too easily. Overall, I'm happy with it.
4|We bought this hdd when the one my fiancé owned went bad on her. She loves it and it's a lot smaller then her old one and it's fast. For what she needs it for, mostly to store documents and work on them, this product does the job.
4|Excellent speed .. nice design easy use good quality
5|Very easy to set up and to use. Good bang for the buck!
2|Not sure if it is because I havea Mac, but could not get this set up. Sent request for support and took 3-4 days for response. Still not great and difficult to ise.
4|Just what I needed to copy all my files on my computer.
5|Great external storage. Really like portable drive
5|After a little bit of internet research I was able to set this up and back up everything on my computer. I feel so much better knowing everything is backed up, and the product was really easy to use!
5|A good solid portable drive. No fuss, no muss. Works very well for me on both Mac &amp;amp; PC after proper formatting.
4|I bought this portable external hard drive because I needed something light with enough memory to hold pretty much everything that is on my other Seagate desktop hard drive...that isn't so quite portable. It has paid itself off already. With the 3.0 connection, transferring files was so quick and easy. I plan on buying a few more to give out as gifts to my siblings (how aren't so techy).
4|It does what it is designed to do. However, don't expect it to backup your OS.
3|Online Downloading is complicated and troublesome.
5|Very easy to use. I had a Seagate external hard drive in the past and it lasted for years until I dropped it. This one is sooooo much smaller and holds more data. I was able to back up all of my data from the other external hard drive and my laptop in no time at all.
4|I haven't needed to go to a particular file yet for restore but I wonder if its possible. Primary use was to bring my files from my old computer to my new one and then to use backup when needed.
5|I bought this item on sale (~$39, if I remember correctly) - a great price for 1 TB portable back up! Works great, no issues. It's small and very portable.
5|I use the external for my Xbox one games and I love it
5|I love it! No need to do anything if you have a Mac just plug it in and start backing up. I have two of these hard drives would recommend to Mac users!!
5|easy to understand and easy to use. Gives you a piece of mind that you have saved/ backed up your files, pictures etc in a secure place
4|works well for the use it was intended for. It s nice and compact and sleek design
5|I love my new hard drive I have no problems with it.
5|This backup external USB is just what my husband needed for storage. Rather than using up all our storage space on our laptop, we have plenty of storage space on this external USB. We absolutely love it!
5|This product was very easy to use and was perfect for my storage needs.
5|This seems to be user friendly and it holds a ton so no need for additional storage for me
5|Got this to back up my laptop but decided to put my movies on it instead. Love this thing
5|Worked right out of the box! Pretty much plug and use.
5|I've purchased other products of this type that did not perform to the level of this Seagate Portable External Drive. It has exceeded my expectations. Excellent Product!
2|i'M SORRY TO SAY THIS PRODUCT DID NOT WORK ON MY COMPUTER. i HAD TO RETURN IT AND PURCHASE ANOTHER BRAND ALTHOUGH WE USE THEM AT MY EMPLOYMENT AND THEY WORK FINE.
5|Easy to use for us. It does what it supposed to do
5|Good price and good quality Good price and good quality
4|This was only a about $5 more than a competitor and came with additional features. Seemed worth it to me.
4|Small drive that seems to do the job. A little trouble with 700 gb backup though. Hung at 600 gb for some reason.
5|Bought this for my daughter for Christmas to store her school work, photos and other items. Got it on sale for a good price. So far works well.
5|easy to use storage and back up for files...........................................................................................
5|Easy to use. I can make a partition of space to use it on MacBook and my other laptop
4|Great product, easy to setup. It comes preloaded with instructions for formatting the drive for either Mac or pc. Registration was annoying but overall I'm satisfied.
4|Working fine this is my 2 device from seagate . it works great
5|Works great for my sons Xbox 360, fast shipping. Very satisfied with this purchase.
5|This drive was pretty simple to use. I even added items from another drive that has older data, that was not on my current desktop
5|Got this to be able to port info from a mac to my classroom pc.lots of space to store everything I need
4|i was able to store alot of data. It is very useful.
4|Purchased for additional storage for XBox one. Great size to just lay on top with an additional TB worth of storage.
5|Simple enough item to review. Bought this for my mother who travels for work. she always has her speeches stored on her laptop but it is good to know that if/when the laptop fails, she will have an easily accessible backup.
5|I put all my pictures and music on it. It was everything I needed.
5|Bought to replace a Fantom GFB2000EU that croaked on it's power supply. No issues with new one.
5|this Seagate Backup Plus Slim hard drive is easy to use. and it's really in good quality. I love it!
5|The Seagate - Backup Plus Slim is an excellent external HDD!
4|This device is very handy. I received it with a discount.
5|I haven't really opened the packaging, but hopefully it's good
5|This is one of the slimmest portable hard drives available, short of going to solid state. You would be hard pressed to find a better portable drive, especially for the money. I have had bad experiences with WD drives in the past but have never had a Seagate fail on me. This influenced my purchase and the supper slim wallet size design plus the matte black finish make for a great mobile drive. I absolutely will purchase another one.
5|I bought the hard drive to load music on and to connect to my car. So far the only limitation has been from the car's stereo. The hard drive has worked flawlessly, quietly and fast. I am quite happy with my purchase.
4|I bought this device to backup my hard drive and to consolidate all of my USB thumb drives. It was worked flawlessly since I bought and it has save my because I had a hard drive failure
4|This is a back up memory device for security cameras. It works well and does that job just fine. Have not used it for any other purposes.
5|I needed a replacement hard drive for my SAN and this was a great addition. Fast speak, low sound, low power requirement.
5|very nice, very small, perfect for what i needed. I would recommend to anyone who needs backup
5|I got this on a black friday deal. Works great and I couldn't beat the price.
5|Bought this for Wiiu to expand the memory and it works great.
4|I got this in black friday deal. It is worth buying. Happy with its performance.
4|Good buy for the money. Easy set up. I like the portability.
5|We are going to use this hard drive to put all of our pictures on it. They will be all in one place. We were waiting for this to come out on sale, and it did.
4|I have this product for a while and I think it's well worth the money. I am a brand loyal customer , I buy all my hard drive from seagate. The speed of the transfer is ok.
5|Great to back up all files and at an excellent price
5|These portable drives are great and this one is perfect for travel
5|Bought this for extra storage for my Xbox. Easy to use.
5|The perfect size for a portable hard drive, happy with the purchase especially the price!
5|Buying external hard drives sucks you always end up over paying. As soon as you buy 500gb the 1tb comes out and you buy the 1tb then the 3tb comes out. Making you feel bad about spending $100 on the 500gb when if you just waited a little longer you could have spent the same money on the 3tb. I got this product on sale for $39. I did not feel bad about that purchase at all.
5|I bought it for extra space for my wife's mac book and works great
5|This product is great for backing up my MacBook Pro with Apple's Time Machine software. I purchased this external hard drive about a year ago. I also created a partition as a safe place to keep particularly important files that I'll need later. No complaints. The product does exactly what I expected and is exactly what I need.
5|I purchased two of these drives, one for myself and one for my wife. I have to say that these live up to everything I read about them. The transfer rate is top notch when used in tandem with a USB 3.0 port on a PC. Solid build quality, not flimsy at all. Sleek and small, which makes for awesome portability. I would definitely recommend this item to everyone!!
4|Very Good product, Suggested to buy. ..............
2|I purchased the unit to back up my computer in order to get it restored back to Windows 8, (as Windows 10 was causing problems). I was able to store my information on the device, this did not seem to present a problem,(just took a long time). But now I'm just not sure what's going wrong as I can not retrieve the information. There were no written directions in the packaging to follow, not good! I'm having to research on line for directions and clarity in use of the unit. Therefore this review request may be too soon for an in-depth analysis.
5|I would highly recommend this product and its slim and easy to use.
5|bought three of them one for my self and great for gift too
5|Perfectly portable and easy to use with my macbook pro - Just had to download software from the website to make it recognizable which wasn't a problem at all. I'm happy with my purchase.
5|Very light and Slim portable hard disk. Fast data transfer with both USB2.0 and 3.0. It's available in many colors to your choice. Reasonable pricing
2|I bought this to do what I thought would be a simple backup of my hard drive's Outlook emails. Installation was easy - you just plug it in. Then the frustration began. I did a backup, then tried to find my emails on the Seagate. Not there. Or maybe they are, but I can't find them. The Seagate Help service? It connects you to the Microsoft website, which is notoriously unhelpful and in any event not designed for Seagate products. I know I'm looking for a ".pst" file but I can't find it on the Seagate. Ugh. If only the genius engineers who design this stuff could get out of their bubbles and figure out how to communicate to us mere mortals.
4|small compacted fairly quick for transfer file perfect for the price
4|This Seagate portable HD is very slim. Fits nicely with my not so large laptop bag. I had a difficult time using as a back up for my Mac though, I wanted to transfer my vids from my Canon camcorder SD card. But it couldn't be read by my Mac so I just used my PC instead. It was simple....
5|Very good quality, runs smooth and also the design it's super cool.
5|gets the job done. I only needed to back up pictures from laptop incase it crashes
5|This is my 3ed Seagate - Backup Plus, drive I've bought, for use on laptops and a cpu.
5|It came as a shock- (okay, less a shock than "I was woefully unprepared") when my backup drive began the "clicking of death" destroying both backup and raw data. After many choice words and several attempts at deep breaths, I realized that much of what was on that drive hadn't been accessed in forever (speaking to its overall importance) and the biggest thing I needed back- my music- was able to be reversed from my old iPod back to the PC itself, I decided to pick up another external- primarily for upcoming projects I have that will be using 2 different computers. It had been 15 years since I purchased my original external, so I was shocked that the same amount of storage was now compressed (physically) to maybe 1/5 of the size. I expected some space saving, but this was soooo small, I actually had to ask the associate if he was sure this was actually a hard drive. It does everything it's supposed to, all while being not much bigger than a wallet. Highly recommend!
4|Drive is fast and reliable. Using it as NAS storage for sharing between machines.
5|This drive is nice and small, only needs a USB cable for attachment and does everything I need it to do. Quick and easy setup.
5|I'm so glad I bought this. Hopefully this review will convince someone to buy this product
5|Easy to use right out of the box and small enough to pop in my bag and go!
5|The design is beautiful, practical with 1 TB and has a reasonable price.
3|This thing seems to sort of maybe possibly work and function in a manner not inconsistent with the functionality expected by a reasonable buyer all things considered carefully with all due cons8deration for the necessity of padding out to a full fifty word review. Also! After further careful review it becomes clear that a sensible product evaluation would include a rating on an industry - accepted scale, so three hats off. And maybe around 12 clogs and a besplid for a durability score.
4|Haven't really used this item to make a qualified review, it wouldn't be right to write a review at this time.
5|Set up was very easy. Have transferred everything from my 750g with room to spare. Got it networked for wireless transfer. Have not done anything with the 'cloud' option yet.
5|Did a lot of research it is fast external storage and works with Mac, Xbox, and PCs
5|Dashboard set up quick and easy &amp;amp; cant beat the free 200 GB cloud storage for 2 years!
5|I have purchased a few of these portable drives in both the 1Tb and 2Tb capacity to use at work. None have failed.
5|Device was easy to install and use. Does all stated in description. Using it in continuous back-up and have no worries or problems as I know all my data is safe.
5|Can never go wrong with a seagate drive. I got this on Black Friday for such a good price. It was even better than costcos price. Setup with time machine on my Mac.
4|Looks cute and is very handy. I love how small and compact this drive is. I can take it anywhere. It's basically like a USB but bigger and with a lot more storage .Really great quality from Seagate. The product is very thin and looks beautiful. Stored all my memories like photo, videos, movies, songs and projects.
5|needed this to be sure that I would not lose expensive embroidery data and found it at a great price.
5|I was really surprised by the small size of this 1TB hard drive, when it arrived. It is fast, light weight and very easy to put in your bag or pocket to take with you. Great unit at a great price !
4|Performs as expected. Not much to evaluate. No moving parts
5|This was perfect for my needs. Compact size was a plus as well.
4|Great product , Would recommend to others, easy user friendly
5|Seagate was very good to save a lot of 1 TB and recommend to a friend!
4|Hard drive is portable and compact to fit my pocket in both size and cost
5|This drive is a good backup device that was immediately recognized by my Mac
5|works likes it should.. no qualms and it stores stuff, like it should
5|I purchased this to use as a backup drive. Truly plug-and-play. Couldn't be any easier.
5|Gud and compact storage device at nominal price. Must buy for all professionals.
5|Holds so many pictures. Good price too. I got it during Thanksgiving sale.
5|Small and compact. Cable is short but perfect for XBOX One. Had to let XBOX one format drive before I could use, but it was quick and the drive works flawlessly.
5|Good price. Worked to eaaily transfer old computer data to new. Now using as back-up.
4|I bought this to replace a smaller capacity Hard Drive - this one worked great and met all expectations.
5|Not expensive but good item for what it is. I would buy again
5|After reading a few reviews on the 1TB Seagate external storage drive it looked like the best option with the fastest read/write speed in benchmarks for a non-solid state drive. Very happy with the purchase. It was as simple as plug and play.
5|Seagate has always been a reliable company for hard drives so I guess this is just an affirmation :)
3|It is a good media storage of the price. Good to backup your data
5|This portable hard drive is a great investment for the price, ease of use. The storage capacity is ideal for home and personal use, not only to back up the computer but also all your thumb drives.
4|It's great for space. Portable and slim. A bit noisy but not too bad
4|im not tech savvy by any means, but this was easy to install and use!
5|Good to use the hard disk, perfect for the backup datas
5|This hard drive is being used to store lots of information.
4|A good drive. It has run smooth since I started using it. I would recommend it.
5|Works great....connects and works exactly as it should
5|it does what its suppose to do. Quite, Sleek, discreet. it was worth my money
5|Great portable hard drive for the price and design
5|needed to back up everything on a computer that was crashing. Worked great
4|Its good, purchase to store my photos. Got a good deal
5|I have been looking for this and shopping for awhile, good quality.
4|Works good for extra storage of photos videos etc...
5|Cost efficient and of good quality. Great for my needs.
5|Easy to load with my data that won't fit on my computer. Nice and small.
5|I bought this for my sister, and i was worry that it might not be mac compatible at first, but it ended up working perfect. I just need to reformat the hard drive because it can be used, which is easily done.
5|We needed to backup work computers and this worked perfectly!
5|was looking for a 1TB hard drive, bought it for $40 during black friday. very good deal!
5|No problem to use. Simple to set up. Easy to unpack.
4|I am happy with this item. I couldn't decide which one to get and I think I made a good choice.
5|so far this a good one for me. Working as expected.
4|This hard drive is very productive, but do not believe that you can not an os off it because the system seems to block this usage
5|Used only two times so far. New to me and it takes more time
5|My primary factor in making the decision was price. Being familiar with the product brand, I was confident that I was speaking a good purchase.
5|in recent times, laptop started showing blue-screen &amp;amp; had many crashes. Brought this product and happy to state that i am using it as an external hard drive for back up. Functions good and serves its purpose !
4|this was easy to setup and easy to use. Great for downloading movies for storage.
5|I have been wanting this item for a while. Recently purchased it and the price was right.
4|So far the backup drive is working well. Have not performed restore yet.
5|Very nice gadget. I would recommend the gadget to others
5|Easy to carry with you and to use. Can be used on mac or pc
3|Best portable HDD I have got. So far no problem ..
5|We hooked this up to our Xbox one and a few steps later it was ready to go. Happy with the extra storage.
5|I bought this on Black Friday when it was 40$ for my Xbox One (it was recognized and formatted immediately within a minute or so). For that price, its great as it works well and feels slightly faster than the internal HDD. No issues so far but, of course, it's early and this is a very straightforward usage for an E-HDD.
5|Great hard drive for the money. Easy to hook up and use.
5|It was just what I needed at the right price. Easy to order &amp;amp; pickup.
5|Bought this item on black friday and it is of great value.
4|Loved the ease of operation Ibwii recommend to all my friends
5|Slim fit and very easy to connect. I am only using it as extra storage for the Xbox but it seems to be working great.
5|Very fast external HD, made massive backups using this HD in a very short time. Reliable product!
5|Bought this because my old drive was failing. BB Shipped it quite quickly and had it unboxed within a week of ordering it. Transfer rates are super fast, sleek design, and registers about 998GB, which is fair due to the conversion of the "rounded" measurement we have now-a-days (1024kb = 1mb, not 1000kb).
5|This portable hard drive is great, just what I needed for my pictures, music, and important documents! It has lots of space too!!
5|Looks cool and best in performance. We can always trust Seagate
5|The working is good and as it is a usb 3.0, it's good in performance
5|Works great and good value. I would recommend this product.
5|1TB is a lot of storage and I got it for only $50 on black Friday. I started to put all my pictures and work onto it and I barely even used any space. I will have this for a lifetime!
5|It is easy to setup and get started. Fast transfer rate.
2|I bought this and for the first month it worked great then all of a sudden it just stopped working.
3|Bought this 1TB drive during thanks giving. It works as expected and no faults.
5|So convenient to have an external hard drive for back up. Functions good and serves its purpose!
5|Is easy to use and is just want we needed to back up the files on our computer.
4|Its Good product .I would recommend this to my friends.
5|This is one of the first seagate drives I have purchased, and it is working good so far. I have only had it for a month.
4|Great hard disk for reasonable price. Product delivered on time.
5|I love the size very portable can take with you where ever you go great price
4|Was easy to transfer photos to and great for peace of mind.
5|I partitioned this drive to use for Mac and Wndows backups on my MacBook Air. Works great!
5|This is a compact device from seagate. It is slim and has very good finish and comes with online support and backup. Transfer rates are comparable to other devices and working perfectly fine on my mac (need seagate software to use on mac)
5|Excellent external hard drive at a great unbeatable price
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive is good for day to day use.
5|Works without power cord and is very portable. If it is reliable only time will tell.
4|This is a great item for everyone to use. Simple and works great.
5|Good storage. Easy to set up. Lots of storage space.
5|Using this as a,storage device for my Tablo video system. I was worried that it wouldn't be fast enough but it has worked great so far. No,complaints.
5|easy to carry. No problem in using. I am sure this is much better one than any other hard drive.
5|I upgraded from a 250gb portable hard drive... This is way faster with the USB 3.0, and plenty of space for photos which is what I mainly use it for.
5|I am very happy with this product. It gives me peace of mind to know that my pictures are safely backed up.
5|It............................................works.
5|I use the Seagate Backup Plus to backup my PC and laptop. I have only used the backup routine once but plan to do backups once a month. There should be plenty of space available for future backups
5|Bought to add more disc space for a xobox one since the early Xbox ones had a small hard drive!
5|Im kind of shocked this little thing can hold a TB of data. It was a little bit of a pain to make it work at 1st because I use a mac but after 10min. I was good to go. It works fast enough and I have a backup just in case.
5|I had never used an external drive before, but this was extremely easy.
5|Works perfectly, great size. Much better than my old one
5|Can't go wrong with the manufacturer. The space is what I need. It's just so impressive its so small!
5|I can't believe you can get this for the price, and no bigger than a CD case! I can take all of my music with me in my pocket!
1|Does Not Work on PS4 as described, now I have to retrieve all I gave for Xmas and exchange them for ones that do.
5|Looking for the best and easiest backup device and this one worked perfectly. It was easy to use, just plug and play, It is small and compact, which makes it convenient and portable. Works Great!
5|I bought this external hard drive to back up my photos and free up space on my hard drive. It is very handy and portable.
4|Greaaaat Hardrive for the price! Easy user interface
5|Just plug it into laptop and get the backup you need, idiot proof back up for your computer. highly recommend
5|This Seagate portable hard drive was very easy to use. Just plug it in and drag and drop what you want on it.
5|Easy to use, did what I purchased it for. Backed up my hard drive.
5|Setup took some time, but worth it 16000+ memories
5|We have purchased 4 of these and have not had any problems with any of them!!
5|It is very easy to use and exactly what I wanted to store, transport and transfer my data. Some products are a bit confusing to use at first, but this was quick easy and step by step.
5|This is perfect for what I need and I'm gonna use it all the time
5|Simple to use and does what it should at a great price!!!
5|I have an older external drive that used to get fairly warm. This stays very cool.
5|I have used Seagate products and was looking for a faster drive. This hard drive surpassed my expectations and has been working really well!
5|Backup worked great and was easy to do.I did not price other backup devices so I cannot compare the cost to other devices
5|Great portable hard drive. Very easy to use and light enough to carry around.
5|The install was easy to setup and the weight and thiness was ideal for cluttered desk.
5|I am using the drive for a data backup for my computer. Just plug it into a USB port and copy files to the drive. After backup I disconnect the drive and set it aside in case it is needed in the future. Great little drive for the purpose although I'm sure it has lots of other uses.
5|She says it works great and is fast. She plans to use it for years to come.
5|Very satisfied with my purchase connected very easily to my computer and is working veriy well
5|I love it. Fast and reasonable price. I got it on black friday.
5|A MUST FOR YOUR PC. SO FAR ITS WORKING WELL. PRICE IS VARY AFFORDABLE.
5|Does what it supposed to do without any issues. Simple.
5|Real proof only comes over time, but this has not given me any problems or concerns so far. I have had several Seagate generations of these types of drives and this one is replacing one I moved to DVR duty.
4|Product is satisfactory, and works well. Quality product for price.
5|This portable hard drive is a great product at an excellent price. The software is easy to install and user friendly.
5|It's one of the best in market. Fast, slim and reliable to keep your files.
5|Bought this for Hubby's new laptop, He likes it a lot. Slim, portable, easy to use. We have had good luck with Seagate drives.
4|Works well. Very turnkey; easy setup. No complaints.
5|Got this for a friend and she loved it. Definitely would recommend
5|I needed something small for my daughters laptop. This did the trick. Small and light. Very easy for her to use.
5|I needed this for my laptop, this item works great!
5|I've had it for almost a year and I haven't had any problems with it
4|I would recommend this product to everyone. Seems very dependable and durable and easy to use.
5|I bought this as expansive memory for my xbox one been working well but I should have bought 2 (it was a really good price at the time) one for the xbox and the other for my computer
5|My last back up corrupted and this replaced it with twice the capacity
5|Thin, sleek, quiet and works well. We will see how it holds up but I am impressed with it so far and would recommend.
5|Met all my expectations for use on the Xbox one. recommend.
5|Have had a few of these hard drives and this one is awesome! Perfect size and easy to use
5|I bought this to use as an external hard drive for my xbox one excellent product and I would definitely purchase this hard drive again and also this is a great brand
5|Compact and easy to use - holds more data than most anyone would ever need
5|Love USB 3.0 and just how fast I can transfer files from PC to HD. All of my portable HD's are Seagate (approx. 10 of them) and I've yet to have a problem ranging from my first one purchased over 5 years ago.
5|Got it for the Xbox One and yeah I can't complain! Great size that fits lying down right on top of the console.
5|Perfect sized external hard drive for a college student or business associate needing to transfer or carry large files and/or programs. Also great for a back-up that can be placed in a drawer.
4|Bought as a backup drive for my wife. Copied files quickly. drive is very small and slim so it's easy to store.
5|5TB? I will never need another hard drive ever again. simple plug and play!
5|This is a compact storage device that does the job for me. I store general documents and pictures on this device and it works fine. Not sure how it would perform if playing music or videos directly from it, as I don't do this. Relatively inexpensive.
4|Great addition to my laptop to make sure I don't lose any of my data!
5|Wanted additional HD storage for my Xbox One and this Seagate 1TB drive came highly recommended and I have to agree. I love that it uses USB 3 and makes saving and accessing Xbox game files quickly.
4|Easy to install. My friend passed and we wanted to keep all of his photos from his phone.
4|Plugged in and worked easily had for a month and no problems would recommend
5|Easy to install and great to expand the Xbox One memory
5|The directions were easy to understand. I like that it is a little smaller than some other external drives I have seen.. I have recommended that a couple of other people I know get one.
5|We already own this product and Purchasef another for my son. It's easy to use &amp;amp; stores all files, pictures, etc. that we use. Would definitely recommend this product.
5|Easy to understand and connect, product works as expected. Recommended
5|I have purchased Seagate products before, so I trust the name. It works fantastic for my back up.
5|Very good value for what it delivers. Good enough capacity and easy to carry.
5|Great price. Very easy synching with multiple computers. Good price since it was on sale.
4|I've got plenty of room now to back up everything on my computers
5|This is what I needed to store several files once occupying alot of space on my c-Drive.
5|it was nice and easy to use. my daughter loved it and it was want you wanted.
5|Great product at a great price. stirenwith confidence!
5|This is a great external hard drive. It also comes with free cloud storage as a bonus.
5|I had a WD external hard drive before the passport, but this one is way smaller and slimmer, easy to carry it
5|I am so satisfied with product. It functions very well
4|This is a gift and we have yet to use it. should meet her needs.
4|Good back up to have for all your important things in case your hard drive goes bad.
5|software loaded quick and with no problem first time
5|Really good deal with unbeatable price. Thank you.
5|Portable, small, and plenty of storage for a great price!
5|very useful device for my technology needs. It is compatible with either Win XP or Win 8 which I have currently. Seagate is a Very reliable brand, I have purchased other external hard drives to store my music and videos, and I am very pleasant with it.
5|Never had such an easier and fun time backing up my data.
5|I love the compact size, speed (read/write) and effectiveness of this hard drive. Great value and storage for the price!
4|Just what I needed when it comes to either back everything up (locally) or booting from this drive with a different system, etc. Easy to install and go!
5|This product was just what I was looking for &amp;amp; needed. It is perfect size and not an over kill in space that was needed .I can use it as a backup and store all my pictures.
5|Got a really good deal on the product, was able to use and install it without any issues.
5|This is exactly what I was looking for. The right size, a very reliable company and a very decent price. It outfits my surface pro 3 just as I would expect, and backed up my desktop for decided to take a dump.
5|it's really slim too so I can take plot with me when I travel!
4|Love how small this is but lots of storage for all types of files. I most put pictures on it and some backup info.
5|I like compact design and seagate is my favorite brand.
5|Setup was fairly self-explanatory, and after I stored all my data, I still had five times more space left over. All parts work properly; everything seems to be built firmly as well.
5|This hard drive works perfectly with my xbox one downloads games fast with no problem
5|Exc hard drive, full usb 3.0 speed and awesome price
4|Took forever to move music and pictures- not what store employee said. Good price. Now the itunes wont work though so not too happy.
4|This is an external HD and is easy and is easy to take on my trips for downloading pictures, etc
5|This was just what I was looking for to back up my pictures. Lots of space and super easy to use.
4|on sale for a great price and will hold all of the pictures i have stored on my laptop
4|Works great on storing and viewing movies. Am able to connect to blu-ray player or tv to view movies stored on it, no compatibility issues.
4|Great small size and capacity meets our needs. Set up was easy - plug and play.
5|My son uses this everyday and it works great. He is a senior in college and his major is Communications and New Media. Nice!
1|This one didn't back up my computer &amp;amp; I kept getting the message the disk was full. Going to have to take this in to see what happened! I do have older models without as much storage that were simple &amp;amp; easy to use!!
5|I have purchased many My Passport drives over the years. They have always been reliable. I took advantage of a good sale on this one, which I have attached to my D-Link DIR-868L router, using it as a file server No issues in months of use. It just performs great.
5|This backup portable hard drive is really useful, I love it!
5|Always trust Seagate products, usb 3.0 at an unbelievable price!
5|Plenty of space for the comfortable price. Easy install.
5|This Seagate backup external hard drive is easy to use. The price is very good deal.
5|This portable hard drive is excelent for make a copy or all personal information. It is very light and very portable, his case is tough so it has protection.
5|No problems. I have an 500g Seagate but was getting so many pictures and I needed more storage so decided to go with the 1TB. Happy-Happy.
5|It is a very thin and quiet drive. I have been using it for data transfer and backup and it performs quickly.
5|I used it on the WIi U and it stream so smoothly on Twitch, extremely recommended.
3|Not compatible with all operating systems, and the software is having difficulty downloading onto the computer.
5|Delivers exactly as it is described. great as a backup drive
4|This product will allow my family to never loss precious pictures again
5|This product is small yet holds more than my other external hard drive which is the size of a book.
5|I purchased this unit for additional photo backup and it was a good fit.
5|I've had absolutely no problem with this. Small, light weight, convenient take anywhere external drive.
5|This hardrive has so much space, I don't think I could use it all. I saved everything I had to it, with plenty of space to spare. Great product.
5|This backup drive is small, slim and a great price for the amount of data it will hold. It's easy to hide on your desk.
4|I am using the device to back up the data on my desktop computer. I have only used it twice, but it seems to work well.
5|Love this external backup drive. This is the third one I have purchased. Always backup your work!
5|Exactly what I needed to backup my iMac. Would recommend.
5|The compact size is excellent, making it easy and portable for presentations.
5|Works great for backing up my pc and I will continue to back up weekly
5|Excellent product and easy to use. Good directions included. I am not a techie, so when I say easy--I'm not exaggerating!
4|Nice little hard drive. Not the fastest ever but does the trick. The free 200G onedrive storage for two years is a huge bonus!
5|Very easy to use. Setup is easy and it's a great price. Highly recommended.
4|I strongly recommend this product. Best to backup your data
5|This External hard drive was easy to install and begin storing all the stuff taking up needed room on my laptop. Plug and play at it's best
4|Easy to use even for someone with no computer exp.
5|Works great, brought for my Macbook Pro Retina. Works like a charm.
5|Bought this to store recordings from my Channel Master DVR. Device was recognized when plugged in the USB and works perfect. I purchased the 1 Tb, but the 2 Tb is an even better deal, just didn't need to save 300+ hours of TV. It's very small and portable if you were looking to use it as easy mobile storage.
5|Looking for 1TB portable hard drive. I recommend this one, light weight easy to use and last but not the least this 3.0USB.
4|simple to install and use. second best thing, small and compact.
5|Easy, fast, and was a great deal for the price. Might grab another while they are still on sale.
5|Just what I needed to create safe backup of client files from my desk top. I now have access to all client files when I am traveling to outside clients and need information. Fast, secure, quality product.
5|I have enjoyed Seagate as a great backup. There is one problem that when it starts clicking the whole back up is lost.
5|I bought this drive to backup my files from my desktop, laptop and old WD backup hard drive. It works like a charm and is fast in transferring data. It's thin and light so you can carry it anyway and connects via USB. No other power source needed.
4|i love this external hard drive from Seagate. Nice
5|The hard drive is perfect for my needs in that the design is great for traveling. Does not have a lot of unnecessary software either. Great product!
5|Love this external drive, works both on mac and windows!!
5|This is great for those who carry around their work. This little thing fits nicely into a bag or purse. Seems great. May have to get a bigger one though to hold more information,.
5|Using it to scan articles, photos, anything to save and make into books.
5|great back up for all my files that I uses on the run
5|This hardrive is so easy to use. It was such a great value for the amount of space you get. I love it!
5|I checked out the available options, called my son-in-law (a computer guy) to ask his opinion, and then got the one he said sounded like it would give me what I needed.
5|This portable product has more space than the average person need, making it perfect for teens in love with taking photos and with music.
5|Need an external drive, this one is awesome! Perfect. Perfect. Super fast uploading.
4|Tons of storage, easy to use. 1 Tera is plenty and will last me for a long while. Super user friendly.
3|I used it for the first time and working great. I would buy again.
5|This was purchased to free up space on my hard drive as well as a backup device. Very useful.
5|Bought this to back up all the information on my laptop and t worked like a breeze. Plugged it in and transferred all of my information very easily.
5|This little device saved me from loosing precious photos. Portable and easy to use plug n play. I love it.
5|My wife really likes this product. It is easy to use and you get a lot of storage for the price.
4|My son needed to free up some extra space on his computer. This was just what he needed to put his movies, music, and photos on.
5|Good product to replace previous one. Thanks for the other reviews!
5|Very helpful as it works with both macbook and windows pc without requiring formatting
5|Seagate has amazing support in the U.S. I had a semi unique application using this as NAS for music library without CPU, and picking that up with Sonos. Works great!
5|My wife likes this portable hard drive a lot. You get so much storage at a really good price.
5|I needed this to take all of my pics and videos off of my phone. Was very easy to use and works great. Lots of storage.
5|it is comforting to not worry about having enough storage space
5|Used it foy my xbox1. Do easy to use. Just plug it in and follow the prompts.
5|This external hard drive is very convenient in size and it works just as it should. I also like the fact I can use it on both my mac and windows computers.
5|I really like this driver. It is slim so it does not take up much room but it holds so much. I would recommend this to anyone who need a external drive.
5|This is very easy to use, and can store a lot of pictures (or data) for backing up important files.
5|I bought this 1TB drive and I really liked it, it has all sufficient storage capacity I need.
5|Setup took no longer than a couple of minutes. Very easy to use.
5|Works like an external should. No complaints here.
5|This drive is easier to use than my previous Seagate drive. Doesn't require a separate AC plug like my last one did. Much smaller and compact and lightweight.
5|Nice tool for the price tag, plenty of capacity and portable.
5|I have multiple back up drives from the company and they haven't failed me yet
5|Slim, reliable, easy to use, so far no issues. Bought 2.
4|Item works well. No problems. Holds a lot of my photos and videos and images! Good price point.
5|The drive works as it should. No issues, it arrived earlier than I had expected and is working well for backing up my PC
3|It takes a really long time to complete backups. I had to schedule one set of items for each day of the week. Can't seem to manage all in 1 night. May be because I have it connected via a USB 2.0. Not sure yet if I would recommend to a friend. I'll decide when I get a new computer and see how it works.
5|This portable drive was easy to set up and has been quit reliable for me.
5|I was looking for an external HDD 1TB for storage purposes including personal files backup. This device complies with what I was looking for: USB 3.0, only one power cable, small, light weight. I am trying it on and so far it works wonderful.
5|I was able to connect to my tower and set up auto back up , easy to follow instructions.
5|Ive had no issues, was easy to use and no issues!!
5|Hooked it up to my iMac to set up time machine. It is literally plug and play.
5|After problems with western digital's last batch of external hard drives that had the hard wired connectors and proprietary cables we decided to give seagate a chance. Have bought at least a dozen of these and have had zero issues and zero failure. Work fine on a mac or pc btw. Might have to be formatted if you want mac os journaled but it's done easily from the mac's built-in disk utility.
5|Easy to install and use.best thing it dint crash for huge data transfers!!
5|Was so easy to use. When my PC was on its last leg i decided it was time to buy a new Mac so i purchased this to backup the PC. Not only did I now have a backup I also was able to copy to my new MAC since it works on both computer types.
4|Easy to start using and performed as expected. No issues for a lower value externa hard drive.
5|ordered this for backing up files on both mac and pc worked like a charm
5|The product worked as expected, plug and play, no problems.
5|I had to back up my hard drive so I needed about 1TB of memory and for less than $60 bucks Seagate did the trick
5|Does exactly what it says. Great price, love the slim design.
5|I was getting a new computer and needed to transfer my files (I also wanted a backup). The price was write and the 1 TB was what I was looking for. I had no problems hooking it up to my computers.
5|THIS IS NOW MY 5TH HARD DRIVE, LOVE THEM, WILL BUY SOME MORE.
5|i'd say this external hard drive is better than any other hard drive. I used couple of hard drives. Those were broken very easily and most annoying those were not working on windows 10
5|I can't remember the last time I had so much memory. The Seagate 1T is so full of memory that I decided to get a second one, because if my memory proves correctly, "If you you don't have it backed up in more that one place, it doesn't really exist".
5|Great for what I need.. great for the price as well. Love that it has an additional amount of gb for OneDrive.
5|Easy to load with information. I use it for my business travels and it's great because it's light and easy to hook up when needed.
5|It's nice and small and easy to use. Great hour to store a lot of information on.
2|I'm sure this drive will work out great....once I get it installed on my IMac. Not easy to figure out, and no instructions included. Have spend many hours online trying to figure out, do I need dashboard???, Do I need to download drives? Would be nice to just plug in and go!!! Would still recommend brand, because it is one of the best out there.
5|I'd say this external hard drive is better than any other hard drive. I used couple of hard drives. Those were broken very easily and most annoying those were not working on windows 10. Because it needed upgrade version of software which is not easy to find and install. But Seagate hard drives didn't have those problems. So I'm happy
5|we use 1 and 2TB versions of this hard drive to back up video projects and photos and to share them with co-workers
5|This is one of the smallest external hard drive with 1T capacity in market.
5|My laptop is on its way out and I have a lot of files on my desktop, so I needed to purchase an external hard drive to back up my files. I picked this Seagate product and I am happy with it. Reasonable price and very simple to use. I befuddle quickly when using complex computer setups, but I did not experience that a all with thiis product. Great for beginner or casual computer user.
5|This is an excellent portable hard drive to have when your laptop is low on memory.
5|I am computer moronic. I am a klutz! I inadvertently break things. This includes but not limited to my computers. I have several back up drives because i have broken several computers. I am eternally indebted to my fiance and my second Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black
5|I have so many pictures. This is the greatest, peace of mine knowing i won't lose them.
5|this is my second unit great backup I use one for my files and one for my operating system never a problem
5|If your looking for a dependable pockect size external drive,look no further this Seagate drive is portable, durable and dependable.
4|Works well I feel better knowing my photos are backed up.
5|Good drive for the price! I had previously purchased a western digital drive and it failed me, ended up crashing so hard I lost several important files that were rendered irretrievable. Put a burden on me and my business. I bought this drive in recommendation by an associate in store, and so far it's worked fast and efficiently!
4|I use this to save dvr movies on and bring them with me so I don't eat up space on my laptop. Got tired of lag issues on viewing some of my dvr shows over wifi. Transferring movies to the drive is super fast using usb 3.0. Takes less than a minute for a 3Gb file!
5|I use this for my 2011 MBP and it's great. Often people see the Mac badge and think they have to have it for it to work, but you can use and drive for your Mac. I used this to back up all the time and it's great. For the price it's a great deal!
5|This drive is reasonably priced, a great size both physically (small) and data size (large). It is also very fast with USB 3.0 and extremely convenient since it is powered by the USB connection.
5|Very easy to use. Has a lot of memory. I would recommend to a friend
5|This is a very nice and compact device with a very quick response
5|This external hard drive is easy to use, light-weight, portable and makes you want to do backups more often. I would buy another one in a heart beat and I highly recommend this product.
5|It seems to cut out a little with the included wire but when using our galaxy s5 USB 3.0 cord it works fine.
5|I was able to transfer more than 100 gigs of data in less than one hour. This is great. Planning to buy more soon with greater storage.
5|This product transferred files easily from my old HP to my new MacBook Pro. And it did so in much less time than expected, given the 30+ gigs of music I was moving.
5|East to set up and has plenty of storage capacity. I highly recommend anyone to backup your computer so if you have a crash you have your information readily available to install on a new computer.
5|The computer was loaded exactly like I wanted it and was done on time.
5|I bought a portable hard drive. it works like it should.
5|I like this product and recommend to my family and friends, it has great portability and very easy to use as well.
5|Small and includes a year subscription to the cloud.
5|I LIKE IT 'S LIGHTWEIGHT,EASY DOWNLOAD SETTINGS.GREAT FOR TRAVEL/
5|One whole TB of a great external hard drive! It's portable and small enough to take wherever I need to backup my work. My tech- savvy son recommended this item and now he wants to get another one!
5|The price could not be beaten and I buy these all the time to backup customer networks. Great drive
3|I forgot to make manually make the hard drive compatible with my iMac and ended up crashing my iMac and losing a ton of information.
5|Purchased for my Xbox one and I'm very satisfied. Exactly what I needed for a great price.
4|If you need extra storage for a great price this is the one
5|It is easy to use and have lots of room to save your pictures &amp;amp; more!
5|Used for my xbox and it works perfectly. If I could use another on the same Xbox I will.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive provides effective and reliable storage for graphic design work.
5|Holds all my pictures. It's a perfect size to carry around
5|Very reliable hard drive, light on weight and small in size. 1TB is the best.
5|If you need something reliable get yourself a Segate - it's a slim, unique portable hard drive for a low price - don't miss it.
5|The Seagate backup drive system is much superior to previous drives. It is very easy to set up, works much faster than my previous system, and is very small for easy storage.
2|DOWNLOADED GOOD BUT HAVING PROBLEMS PUTTING IT ON ANOTHER COMPUTER.
4|I like it for my data storage and it's a slim device
4|I enjoy using this product, it saved me space on my PC and easy to use
5|this product is what I expected and I would recommend it to anyone
5|I bought this for additional storage for my kids ps4, worked out perfect
5|Plug and play, attached the usb to my xbox one and was back in business with storage space!
5|I use only two brands of external hard drives and that is Toshiba and Seagate. Both have NEVER failed me. And in the case of Seagate, I have been using their products for well over 4 years now (brought me through my study abroad in Rome and a larger chunk of college) and I have yet to be let down. I've had no loss of files and zero glitches of any sort. I could not give you any technical breakdown of how this works because I am a simple person with simple needs and this hard drive does exactly what I need it to do. All I can say is that I have no complaints and that I will always recommend their products. NOTE: I will more than likely be purchasing more of their hard drives in the future.
5|Using as a back-up drive on my iMac. Compact and easy to use.
4|The first unit failed out of the box. The replacement unit worked like a charm. Great value for the money.
4|Works well to transfer pic..........................
3|A lot of memory for the price, easy to hook up and small
5|Seagate is a very reliable brand. This is my third Seagate hard drive. I've had the other two running strong for about three years now.
3|Good price, available off the shelf at local store.
4|Backed up my computer nicely! Needed an external hard drive and it was a good deal!
5|Slim and ultraportable. Highly recommended to daily use.
5|This was reasonably priced and very easy to use. Great for a non-tech individual to use for backup of data
4|Good product. Works like it's supposed to, and can't beat the price.
4|Having an external hard drive with what I do (photography), is absolutely necessary. This EHD works great, is easy to use and so far I have had no issues with compatibility or speed. Worth the money to keep from having a disaster with lost photos.
5|Small and sleek. Easy to use. Digital services are nice if you need them.
5|I really enjoy the east of use and the high speed transfer rate from my computer to the hard drive.
1|According to the instructions, this device automatically backs up each file that is changed. It does not do this - so for me, it was a waste of money.
5|Used to store my videos from my FDR-AX100 4K Camcorder. Great for the job. Lots of room for storage.
5|This is perfect for uploading photos in order to free up space on your laptop. It is very easy to use and is a must for someone who takes a lot of photos.
5|I used this hard drive to expand the storage on my XBOX One. It works great - very easy to setup.
5|Great portable hard drive, was easy to use and was a great price too.
4|I returned this product and decided to use thumb drives instead. After having my laptop crash, I wanted to get an external hard drive. I can keep the usb drive in where the external drive is bulky but holds more information.
5|This is a great harddrive for a great price you can't beat the storage
5|I am now able to automatically backup my laptops everyday
5|Needed extra storage to clear my laptop and this provideday just what I needed.
5|It's simple to use. Wonderful hard drive. Highly recommend .
4|works well and no issues so far. large enough for all our storage needs and at a good price as well.
4|Easy hook up and great functionally cannot help your laptop run faster
5|It was perfect for what I needed. A backup and storage device for games and things.
5|I purchased the external hard drive to be used as a back up for my computer. I didn't want to lose pictures taken over the past years. Works great for the reason of the purchase.
4|This seems ok. A bit difficult to set up and use but overall good!
5|It is a convenient external hard drive . I like the slim size. I also have been able to save and transfer data as needed .
5|Great drive, used as 2nd drive for Xbox one. Cheaper than the green one, does same thing.
5|Easy to use back up. Just plug it in and leave it.
5|The Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive is a great product. It is versatile and dependable.
5|Sleak and easy to use. Would recommend to anyone needing a good back up drive.
5|Easy to use. Plug it in and go! And the price was very good!
4|Really like this ...it holds a lot of my files and easy to retrieve...only con is I don't want to use the "cloud", which expects one to pay for. I use my files for photoshop work and this is easy to use.
5|Very easy to set up - and very portable, would recommend this to anyone.
4|Seagate puts out quality gear. Again, not disappointed.
4|External hard drive allows me to back up my data which is why I bought it
5|Easy to use for a beginner bought this for my mom and she loves it.
5|Saved my files from being lost forever. You need to backup.
5|This hard drive works great for both pcs and macs. Would recommend to anyone
1|I got this drive less than 2 months ago and it's already failed. Called customer support, the price to recover the data is $599.
4|Device is sleek lots of memory perfect for saving xboxone games if you have a 500gig model transfers files fast if you have a usb 3.0. No issues so far with it.can even store files from your smartphone
4|good amount of space and compact for easy usage and travel; great price
5|I was looking for a new external HD to back up my system before I reinstalled my OS and this Seagate HD was an excellent value. I have been perfectly happy with the HD and haven't had any trouble using it since I purchased it.
1|I bought this drive 2 months ago and it's already dead. I bought it to back up all of my photos, documents, videos and music. I think I used about 45 gigs of the terabyte and it died. My PC (and the 3 other PC's I've tried) no longer recognizes the drive when I plug it in. The last 11 years of my digital life is being held hostage on this broken machine. If you have any data that you care about, I would put it on another product. I'm trying to recovery what information I can from the internet and friends right now. There is nothing I know of that can either restore my lost data or my faith in this product. The product is under warranty but they require the old drive before they give me a new one. I am not willing to let the sensitive information trapped on the drive fall into any one else's hands. Besides, I don't want another drive so that I can worry about the day that it too fails.
3|not happy with their software for teinstalling files.
5|Great product, exactly what I needed. Requirement for school.
5|It was simple to use and easy for me to do something that I screwed up with discs many times. I am happy to have it available now whenever I need it.
5|Purchased it to replace a smaller exterior hard drive I had. Set up and use was "easy peasy". 1 TB storage within my price range.
5|Recently switched jobs, and traded out my home devices. The Seagate backed up 10 years of work docs., dozens of go pro movies, 2,500 pics, and more than 5k+ songs, from different devices using different platforms. Still used far less than 40% of the memory. Unless you're saving 100's of full length movies, I don't know why you would need any more than the 1T Ultra Slim. PS - just picked up a case for under $10.
5|It is a good hard drive for someone who just uses it to store pictures, files and some extra software
5|I purchased this external hard drive to put all my photographs on. Wanted to have them all in one place. Worked great for my purpose
4|Found it reasonably fast while transferring data, hope it lasts long
4|Great alternative for backing up data. I travel with mine for work. No issues.
5|Great quality, great price. Life saver for backing up your computer.
5|Good producr. Easy instruction to install and up load.
5|Good reliable backup drive, fast upload/download. Price was very good. This is the second one I own and have had no issues (knock on wood).
5|This external drive is amazing for backing up your computer. I use mine for all my go pro photos so I can have them backed up. I would most definetly buy another one just to have. The price isn't bad as well.
5|I purchased this solely on price but now I'm hooked on Seagate. I've had the other brands but this one is super fast, portable and dependable. I liked it so much I just bought a 4Tb SSHD for my desktop at home.
5|Easy to install and quickly add memory for pennies
4|I'm very happy with my external HD, it's fast and has more than enough storage for all I need... all for a good price!!
4|Seagate's Slim 1 TB portable hard drive works as advertised. It easily backs up files on your desktop or laptop and is readily accessible if needed.
5|We bought this to back up multiple computers before upgrading to new laptops and desktops. We easily backed up the computers and still have plenty of space for future back ups. Easy to use and lots of space.
4|I needed an external hard drive to back up my Windows 7 before installing Windows 10. One TB was plenty of space, so I bought the Seagate Backup Plus for $39. I was impressed with the speed using USB 3.0. I was also pleased that they included a USB cable in the package. As Seagate is a well known and trusted brand, you can't go wrong buying this drive.
4|Great product at a great price. Backed up before windows 10.
5|I loved mines so much that I bought this as a gift for my sister also. Easy to use.
5|Love this hard drive. Perfect for what I needed and a handy size for easy travel if needed.
4|IT IS A SOLID PRODUCT BUILT FOR BUDGET USERS. IT IS QUITE SMOOTH, EASY TO USE.
5|best deal for your money. good quality and easy to use.
5|Perfect for my needs. Great investment. Goes where I do.
5|I came in to buy a storage device for assignments done only on the computer.
5|Bought this for my fiance. Excellent size for traveling.
5|I needed additional space on my laptop. This was so easy to set up.
5|Easy to use and works great. Lots of space and easy to set up for MAC.
5|I had my old computer backed up to this external drive. I feel more secure now having this and have plenty of room for tons more.
5|Best bang for the buck. Plenty of storage. Great price
5|This product works great formatted it to work with Mac and PC. Great for large file transfers!
5|This has been really useful backup storage for the files on my computer. It's really taken a load off my mind to know that if I have a problem with my computer, I won't lose all of my files!
5|These are great. You should always go for the best bang for your buck on these external drives. Brands don't matter. However, be VERY careful not to let them get too full, or have HUGE files open / reading / Writing while the drive is really full. Your operating system may end up crashing the drive, and you'll lose all the data. If you're like me, you'll want to max them out but be careful because if files are too large, and open, they can crash it. Best to leave a few gigs, and never have huge files on there. And then move on to a new drive. I have 2 Seagates, and 3 Toshibas. Only my Toshibas have crashed, but now I know why (too full, too large files). By large files, I mean entire working catalogs, or large videos.
5|This drive is working great and saves so much room on my hard-drive which I had filled with pictures and videos. Having moved them to this drive freed up quite a bit of space and now my laptop runs faster too!
5|Bought this for my xbox1. Simple plug and play. Follow the prompts on the screen and you are done.
4|The Seagate Backup Plus portable external hard drive simplifies backup for consumers who want to protect their entire digital life locally, in the cloud or from social networks. Via the Seagate Dashboard, use the Protect function to set up a one-click plan or customize your scheduled local backup. Keep multiple copies of your files in case disaster strikes. With the Save feature, user-generated content can be backed up from your favorite social networks.
5|Super easy to use and works great! Loved how fast and easy it was to use
5|This external hard drive is great for it's price. 1TB, fast transferring, small and thin just what I was looking for. I was debating whether or not to get a hard drive or a flash drive when I saw the Seagate was going for the same price as the SanDisk 64GB flashdrive. Seagate hasn't failed me before so I didn't think twice in purchasing it.
5|Love the external. I was able to fit about 2000 songs, lots of movies and over 13k pictures and there is still plenty of space left!
5|I like this product because it has 1T of storage on it and it's only $60-$70. I need a lot of storage for my movies and I think I found the right drive
5|I bought this for my boyfriend to transfer his games over to the external harddrive because Xbox One only came with 500 GB storage and can be eaten away with 10 games. He is a huge gamer. This came in handy! He has all his games saved PLUS extra storage!
5|great value for my money. storage works great. Thank you
5|Geez, external hard drives have come along way in just 3 years. I bought this to replace a WD MyBook for my Time Machine backups. So much faster and more efficient. Amazing that you don't need an external power supply anymore. Just uses the power from USB. Awesome
5|I bought this for my macbook air and cant be any happier..good price
5|We borrowed one from a friend and really liked it and it was easy to use.
5|So far so good with backing up my data on my computer.
4|The external use hard drive was able to hold all my information
5|Excellent drives, small, quiet, solid construction. USB 3.0
5|Perfect for my needs. I would reccomend this produce to others.
5|I'm happy with my new external hard drive. It's a very nice one that does the job.
5|You know what I mean. You all know what I mean. Just do it.
5|This external hard drive is very simple to set up and meets all the criteria I needed it for.
5|I can back up all my pictures videos onto this back up drive when I get the new iPhones i get the 128gb and I have had 3 128 gb phones over the years from upgrading so I put so much gigs on this approx 400gb and it didn't even use much of my back up on this drive. They make this in a 1tb a 2tb which I have both they also make a 3 4 and 5. This is a must have product and us worth every penny trust me. 5 stars overall satisfaction I loveeee it!
5|Wanted a external SDD but for the cost was not worth it. Great little device
5|Gave my computer the extra space it needed and also fits in my purse. Light and convenient
4|Compact device and ability to download multiple GBs
4|This drive reliable and easy to use. I am using it for Windows Backups
4|Compact unit with a great design and its very easy to use. simple to setup.
3|The Seagate backup drive was easy to install, but the software was sorely lacking. None was provided with the drive itself, and the Dashboard Agent that is downloadable from the Seagate website performs continuous and scheduled backups - but neither backs up in a user-friendly format, where My Computer (Explorer) can be used to recover files one-by-one, such as with a drop-and-drag process).
4|Bought this item few months ago. And this is my 3rd time buying this brand, works great
3|It was what I needed and I used it at work. It is.
5|great looking product and easy to set up. good price
5|This product is a great value. It functions exactly as advertised and I love the large capacity
5|This is my second Seagate external hard drive purchase. In both cases these hard drives are utterly plug and play with no issues whatsoever. Highly recommended drives!
5|Great hard drive. Needed a hard drive for my music and this fits perfect
5|Been using debate for years , very reliable products.
4|Great price that week.fast USB 3.0. I used it to transfer recordings for a client.
3|I bought this external drive because it is supposed to be compatible with Mac and PC but I found it difficult to backup data from Mac onto it. Of course I am a 50+ woman and challenged by these things.
5|Great product portable backup and I would recommend it
5|This is very efficient, fast with file transfer, as a result of it, I purchased the 2 TB
5|The price, the durability, the out of the box plug and play, windows 7 and 10 compatible, Seagate name and quality, small size, and no external power supply needed. I use the first one to backup my computer. The second is for the pictures, music, videos, files I share or use on someone else's computer.
5|I needed a hard drive big enough to hold my entire music collection. This one is small, lightweight, and easy to use. I had to reformat it to work on my Mac (the Mac can read it as originally formatted, but you have to reformat it in order to write from the Mac).
5|It took me a little while to get it to work on my iMac. The store did not have the mac version on hand but the box said it would work with Mac.
4|It's a great portable hard drive that works perfectly with my me and my stuff. Also it's both for iOS and Windows users.
5|Love it. Small and compact - easy to use.Take it everywhere with me.
5|This product does all it is supposed to do. I'm very happy with the product and my store experience when buying it.. :)
5|Great storage, not heavy at all and the price was great
5|Would highly recommend this product for periodic backups
5|I have 4 of these drives and they are great for keeping in a laptop bag, or for extra storage for your Xbox One or Xbox 360. They're lightweight and come in a few different colors. They're small and can be hidden away in an entertainment center pretty easily. I haven't had any issues with these drives at all.
5|I bought this portable external hard drive to backup 2 computers. I have it plugged into a USB 3.0 port on my wireless router, and it is working quite well. I like the small size, and there were no problems with setting it up.
5|The setup was effortless. A must for anyone needing system,photos or music backups. The price is great. I'm going to buy a second one for traveling.
5|We bought this drive based on price alone. It was on sale. It performs like any other external drive and does what it designed to do.
5|For what I needed it works very well. Just personal use. Good brand
5|This was a great investment as a student. Has tons of memory.
5|Great buy and great product! I needed something for a backup due to photography and this works great!!
5|This could not be beat for the price i paid. I got it on sale and love it. Wish the cord was a bit longer.
4|backed up my pc before upgrading to Windows 10 but had no issues and didn't need to use product
5|I am not computer savvy yet this product was easy to use and back up my computer
5|As a video producer, I use these portable drives for each job to transfer all video that we shoot, narration, music, supplemental photos and documents, and finally put the finished product on the drive. I then copy the complete package on another Seagate portable drive for my client. They free up space on my computer, and they have never failed me. A great and useful product!
5|This external hard drive was a little bit cheaper than the only other big player in external hard drives, the WD brand. I use it with the Time Machine function on my Macbook Pro and it works great. I also have separate files on it aside form my laptop's back up file and they do not interfere with one another. If you're looking for a hard drive that backs up your iPhone or Android, this one does that too.
4|It's for my dother, she wanted to backup pictures. Works great.
4|great to download my photos for safe keeping . easy to use.
4|It's easy to use and is ready to store files, etc. right out of the box.
5|The drive was easy to use and was detected right away by Windows. I have always had good luck with Seagate drives.
5|This product met my requirements would buy again if need to
4|Has SSUSB connection, just plug in and drag and drop files, music, photos or copy an paste. I also use it for backing up my computers using backup software. It does a great job. the only thing that needs is a longer cable, the one supplied is way to short but works.
5|Never had a backup hard drive so this was my first one and it was easy to use did not have any issues backing up my iTunes one it. The price was also great.
5|Love having the ability to save to an external hard drive and save space on the Mac
5|Glad to buy this one! It's great that it's compatible with Mac and PC coz I'm about to switch to Mac in a few months! Plus the memory is very big!
5|This external hard drive is fast, extremely compact and easy to use just plug it in and use it. If you have an Xbox One and are planning on extending your storage capacity to fit more games then this hard drive makes for a perfect addition to your Xbox One.
5|This is a great little drive. It's fast, lightweight and has never given me any trouble.
1|USB power only....takes too much power on a Mac and shut down my USB's because of it.
5|Easy setup, just plug and use. Nice compact size too.
5|Awesome product. Plug and play. Durable, I've dropped it a few times. Still works perfectly.
5|I needed this to extend my xbox one storage. I purchased this one because it was on sale. This has worked great on the Xbox without flaws. Would buy another if needed.
5|So when I bought this, I believe they were offering 1 TB of OneDrive space at purchase. So I ended up getting 2TB of storage for the price of $60+tax. This little thing is small enough to fit into your pocket (which i hope you never have the need to do), runs quiet, and runs fast. The set-up process is extremely easy for both Windows and Mac just involving a first time .exe/.deb run of the set-up file already on the device. This is very helpful because I've ran into many problems where people thought their externals didn't work just because they were missing the correct drivers. Not much else can be said about this device that hasn't already, it gets the job done, looks great, and performs as described. If you're looking for a quality external portable drive, this is definitely highly recommended.
5|Bought this item to replace an older one. Works great and set up is really very simple for us non-technical people.
5|It's simple and easy to use! Great purchase for anyone looking for a good hard drive.
5|works like a champ, when I needed a drive it came in handy
4|Needed a drive to do some data transfers from a clients failing iMac. This wasn't the fastest drive in the world, but it was definitely up to the task. I have shied away from Seagate for years, but I'd recommend this one if it's ever on sale again. Can't comment on the software that came with I didn't install. I'd buy it again especially at the sale price.
1|Just like the WD portable drive for nor reason this drive suddenly failed seems portable as a category are not worth purchase as they have a near 100% failure rate and even before that the working are very spotty in future I will stick to the plugin drive and just carry a bigger bag. best advice on external drive buy several and back up everything in triplicate as all external drive fail over the course of time but portables like this one are totally unreliable
4|No problems here! Plenty of storage for my pictures and school folders.
5|I needed a new hard drive since my old one was 320 gb, and up recently upgraded to USB 3.0. There isn't much special about it. It works great, does the job, what else do you want.
5|Very pleased with this product. No problems whatsoever
4|The drive is quick and works well, but the software could be a bit more robust and easier to use. All in all, a good choice.
3|Have been using Seagate HD"S since the early 90's ans always had good luck with them
5|the cost was low for a 1Tb that you can use on a OS &amp;amp; Windows
3|The backups from the computer to the drive seem to work, but backing up from a smartphone via the internet only seems to work if you have the program actively running on the computer, and not just in the background, and the app needs to be active on the mobile device as well. If either of those are not the case, no backups happen. As of today, Oct 2nd, no backup has been completed since Sept 27th, even though it's set to run every night, automatically.
5|Fast and reliable data storage in a very small space. Fits in your pocket.
3|havent got a chance to use much yet, but so far so good
5|Great for backing up computer and programs that you want to keep safe or transfer to another computer.
5|About as easy as it gets just plug in and back up. Great product!
3|Works just fine hooking it up to a windows box, needed a few extra steps for my Mac, but works like a champ.
5|The Seagate Slim external backup drive is easy to install, easy to setup a backup type and easy to restore your backup files.
4|Again, why do I have to write fifty letters in this space.
5|I needed an external hard drive for a new laptop so I compared price and storage capacity among the choices available. I thought this was a good value for the 1TB storage. It was very easy to set up. Dashboard is easy to use.
5|Well packaged, good instructions, easy to use, good speed: does what it is supposed to do.
4|Can't go wrong with seagate, the memory is compact and reliable
2|hard for me to understand great for the prce good for someone who knows computers
5|I love the ease of using my backup drive by Seagate. It is quick and simple to use. Great price as well.
3|Very nice and easy directions to save my stuff in my Mac
5|I was in search of a new external hard drive since my previous on was damaged. I love the size of this and doesn't feel cheap like the one I had before
5|I like it. Good price and it's small and pretty fast for uploading or download from it. Good deal.
5|I am impressed with the small size and the large 1TB file storage.
5|Good quality external HD! It works perfect with my MacBook Pró.
5|I'm totally satisfied with the portable drive. It's slim and powerful. It's so tough as well.
5|I researched several external drives and settled on this one because of the design, price and reputation of the brand. I have and continue to recommend this product to others.
5|Performs as expected. Easy install. Lots of storage space.
4|Works great good price I would recommend this too a friend
5|Seagate has always been dependable and affordable for safe backups of my computer.
5|The price was a driving factor for this. The device is fast and functional. I used this for an expansion to my XBox One and it works great for that.
4|This backup up hard drive is good quality and pretty easy to use.
4|Like the compact size of this portable hard drive. We have three of these in our household, great for college laptops.
2|NOT A TECH GUY BUT THIS WAS SO EASY TO SETUP!!!!!!
4|I like its look. Pretty sleek. Works good with both windows n mac
4|Nothing much to write about. It's a terabyte of storage in a slim case. Works well.
5|very easy to use....excellent there was excellent service given at the store...im so happy
5|At first it was hard to hook up to the Mac. I got the version where you have to wipe it out first instead of right out of the box being ready for the Mac. But works good no complaints here.
4|this product and the assistance of the staff solved my problem
4|The back up worked perfectly and a great value for your money!
5|fit my needs easy to use..priced right...what else can you ask for
4|works well, need to format drive prior to use would recommend as a portable drive
5|As always I kept saying I needed to backup my important files, but never did it. Then a friend said they had a hard drive crash and lost everything. I had flash drives all over the place, but nothing in order, I knew it was now time so I bought the Seagate. Everything is now saved and in order thank goodness. I got is while it was on sale and it has more space on it then I will ever need. Easy and safe and perfect.
1|I had a lot of problems with this hard drive randomly disconnecting, it started corrupting my photos off and on and some I am now able to use. Has a lot of nice storage space but I do not recommend for storing photos.
4|great product, no complains, easy to setup and use
5|This hard drive is very easy to use, not to complicated, and works well with my computer.
5|This is a great item from a trusted brand to store and backup my pc!
5|The screen is really nice, I know exactly how much power is left. It has enough battery life to charge my galaxy s6 3 times, or my surface twice.
5|This hard drive is super thin and perfect for anyone needing some extra storage space!
5|Light, small with a lot of storage, great drive to save all my documents and photos
5|Plenty of storage! Excellent price if you catch it on sale. Much smaller than the last extenal storage that i bought. Very happy with my purchase.
4|As a DJ I have to have lots of different types of music and this product makes that possible!
5|Brought this after reading several online reviews. It's rated as one of the fastest 2.5 external drive. I like the size and speed. Great for backing up files.
4|I store a lot of classes and other information many different places. With this amount of storage, I am able to store it all in one place
5|It was for my friend. He likes to use Seagate. This version is good combination of price and performance.
4|Bought this item so my daughter would have extra storage. Great value for the money.
5|Nice, slender storage. I use it with confidence. Very cinvenient.
5|I like the seagate drives, I have a few and have had no problems. This is a great drive for my son who just needs to save his documents for college on an external drive.
1|I HAVE BOUGHT 3 OF THESE EXACT 1TB EXTERNAL HD's AND EVERY ONE OF THEM HAS STOPPED WORKING WITHIN A FEW MONTHS AT MOST... lost DECADES worth of home videos, pictures etc! Purchased a WD MyCloud Storage Device instead, which i DEFINITELY RECOMMEND! Attach an external device if needed, but access your backed up media/files ANYWHERE you're connected to the internet. These SEAGATE BACKUP "PLUS" DRIVES DO NOT LAST!!!
5|Small, light, lots of storage and a great price. Perfect!
5|This external hard drive definitely serves its purpose for what I needed it for. I use it to back up my music, and it's perfect for that.
5|so far so good, easy to load and use, quiet and takes very little space. Not sure how robust it will be as last external hard drive was packed in a mega safety case.
5|I needed this to backup my computer - works perfect!
5|Plenty of storage to backup my files and yet is small &amp;amp; portable. Good price.
5|Running out of room on my internal backup HDD (500Gb) and needed another backup drive. This has been a great backup drive with lots of available space (1Tb). Priced right and worth it.
5|This drive has a nice simple design and worked immediately with my Mac, with no complicated formatting procedures. Transfers are very quick with the USB 3 connection. Good value.
2|Cant tell how well it works because I wanted a hard drive back up and it utilizes the cloud. I cannot use it.
4|The product worked great and was easy to use and download all the photos off my computer. Hopefully it will have room to store many more photos. I would recommend this product and it was at a reasonable price as well. Also compact and easy to store.
5|THIS WAS A PERFECT SOLUTION TO LOAD UP MY MAC WITH 1000'S OF PHOTOS AND SONGS!
5|This is a great price for a lot of storage. Very easy to use.
5|compact and easy to use. a must for your travelling data needs.
5|I need to back up my PC which had a ton of pictures and music.
4|I purchased this to back up my hard drive and have been satusfied with the product.
5|Hard to get used to. Not as simple as plugging into USB and dragging data on to.
4|Had an issue when registering but this was resolved by seagate after a short while
5|The more you put on it the more it takes, have not reached capacity yet
1|Product doesn't work as it is supposed to. The necessary drivers are not loaded.
5|I set out to purchase an external memory to back up my stuff on my computer. This was so easy, small, and very practical way to backup your data. I only purchased 1TB which I figured would be more than enough for my 5000 pics and a few documents. I have much more room than what was needed.
4|This is good for a first time user it was easy to understand
5|Works great. No problems. Can't complain. It's a functional hard drive.
4|Works as advertised. I wish hard drives would display the actual amount of spae you could use, not factoring in the formatting. For example, a 1TB HD would actually be near 1.1 TB, if that makes sense.
5|very slim easy install speed is good and a great item
4|Purchased for my grandson who is starting college. He loves it.
4|I was able to easily transfer all my data from my laptop to my back-up hard drive. I feel confident all my files are safe. I do a lot of writing for my job and school and I have a lot of information I don't want to lose.
4|Exceeded my expectations with regard to price per MB!
5|GREAT FOR BACKUP.........................................................
5|I use this as a Time Machine for my MacBook and it was super fast.
5|Easy to use for someone who is not computer savvy.
5|A great backup drive for personal or small business use. Slim and convenient for carrying and storing. 1TB space good for backing up an entire small laptop computer. Pretty fast data access and storing with USB3.0.
4|Seems to fit my use. Easy to use. Lots of storage options
4|When I purchase my first macbook it was suggested to purchase an external hard drive to capture my songs and pictures.....great product and I would recommend it to anyone.....very convient and portable for the amount of story,.
5|very easy to set up and to use. no problem backing up hard drive for the first time. Automatic backup is working very well
4|This is very easy to use, even for me LOL You will not regret purchasing this.
1|It was too difficult to reformat so I returned the Seagate
5|Needed a backup to make room on my computer for storage. Does just as I need it. Perfect.
5|Easy to use and affordable. I would recommend this to everyone.
4|Excellent product for backing up my teaching files
4|Bought this to help reload a laptop with a fresh OS. Works well, comes with Seagate's own backup software that can be deleted by a quick formatting. It does the job, but it's a low-powered drive, so even on USB 3.0, it's not the fastest way to go. Still, it is reliable, tiny and affordable - the value triangle.
5|This 1 TB portable hard drive is small, light, quiet, fast, and reasonably priced. I use if for backups. Works flawlessly and comes with a short usb cable; a big plus for me. powered from the usb port, so no power dongle. Very happy with this purchase.
3|This is a good product. I would recommend it to anyone.
4|This is a great back up for all of my files. I would recommend this product to other people.
3|Needed storage space for backup to upgrade to Windows10
3|Good product and easy to install . Nice to be able to back up files and photographs.
5|I am not very computer saavy and this was very easy to use. The download doesn't take long and you can purchase different sized storage amounts to meet your needs.
5|There is a lot of storage to hold all my data for backup
5|The hard drive was plug and go. Very easy to use. Very small case easily fits in your pocket.
5|This external hard drive is 1 T and is slim as well. Wont' take up space. I read that it has great reviews. It was a gift and he was very happy with the device.
5|I wasn't sure when I purchased that it would be compatible with my son's Xbox 360. (I had made the mistake of researching online and found out more than any mom could ever want to know about gaming). However, just simply plug the drive to the Xbox with supplied cord and the Xbox does the rest. Very simple. Great price on sale- hence the reason I chose the portable option versus an external drive with its own power supply (bonus one less thing to plug into the power strip).
5|It was basically plug n play. The Xbox one immediately picked the external hard drive up and now I have a terabyte of memory !
5|This external USB 2.0/3.0 drive is what you expect it to be. About the same size as every other USB external in it's class. Quiet and fast. I was able to hook it to my Mac and format it as expected. I was then able to use it as a time machine drive. I has been sitting quietly ever since. Backing up data.
5|I really like the hard drive from the price to the slim look. An it is easily portable
5|Love the portability and ease of use. Be sure to format before beginning. Good stuff!
5|Great. I am enjoying it. If I had to do it all over again I would.
5|I had a MyPassport hard drive, 1 TB for a while that's still in very good shape but I needed another one for my friend who wanted all the music and movies I had stored. I went out and bought this one as a gift and immediately noticed how slim and slick it was. It looks and feels very nice and was very fast copying all of my items. I like it better than mine in fact.
5|Worked great with my Mac and was pretty easy setting up. Good purchase.
5|Simple to use, holds a ton of data, and best of all has come down significantly in price since I shopped for this same item in December!
5|This was very easy to hookup &amp;amp; use, and I feel much better knowing my data is safe
5|I purchased this for my college age niece who needed it for her new mac, she loves it and I'm happy
1|My PC computer won't recognize the device. Tried multiple other devices as well but no luck. Will be returning!
5|The external hard drive is so easy to use and find files, documents and pictures.
5|Easy to use and great price! Just bought a new MacBook and wanted to be able to back it up.
5|I researched external portable hard drives for awhile until i decided to buy this one. For the price and stoage I was in between this one, Toshiba Canvio Basics, and WD My Passport. My previous external portable hard drive was an older version of the WD Passport and after a year or so it crashed, so i chose not to get it again. I liked the look of this one better than the toshiba and i had read more reliable reviews for seagates hard drives in general. I don't really use the seagate dashboard though it is helpful if you want to set it up to back up your files at a certain time. I like transferring my my dad through Windows Explorer. I have yet to use the Lyve app, but did get my extra 200gb for my one drive cloud. The only thing i see that my Passport drive had that I do not see or was not advertised on the Seagate is password protection, but I don't mind because I didn't use it on my Passport anyways. Overall, the hard rive is working well, I am really happy with my purchase and would recommend to others.
5|We haven't used it yet, but this is exactly what we need for storage, etc. Great price too.
3|I bought this item so I could complete a data transfer at the store. When I actually used it (to add new photos from my computer to the drive) it would not complete the transfer. I was able to view all the files on the drive. It's slim and lightweight.
5|Very satisfied with my purchase. I would recommend this product
3|This portable drive is only 931 gb. Outside shell is cheap plastic instead of aluminum. My music collection alone is almost the 70 gigs I'm missing. Advertised as a 1TB, I'm tired of everyone in the industry advertising a certain size hd and not delivering. To me this is false advertising and I'm tired of it.
5|Perfect size and storage capacity. Simple back up application
5|does all you need in storage..backup for gaming ,movies,music and much more..easy to operate
5|I also own a passport hard drive and it appears that Seagate is just as good if not a little quicker
5|Love this product and has so much storage space I feel like I'll never run out
5|This Portable HD is Tge Best in Its Price Point. I Needed a Secure way to Store Photos and Other Data and It Hasn't Let Me Down Once.
5|I use this to back up my new MacBook Pro. It works great. You don't need a separate cord to plug into the electric. Just a cord plugs into my computer.
5|We purchased this for my daughter's Mac. Setup was easy and it has worked perfectly from the start.
5|The disk drive was exactly what I wanted - file copying is fast and it is easy to use.
5|Another great product from Seagate!! Very fast transfer rate with USB 3.0 interface. The drive stays cool when running. Highly recommend!
5|I would recommend this item to all my friends and family
1|I needed to restore my computer to factory settings and I bought this drive and within 14 days I lost everything. The drive no longer works and seagate is trying to get me to pay $299 for data recovery. I had the device for 14 days and it stopped working and I lost everything. The drive powers up but doesn't read anything. I was so disappointed because there were good reviews about seagate but I will never buy their products again.
5|Usb 3.0 makes nice quick transfer. Works very well for my applications.
5|Quick and easy software. I'll just leave it plug (USB) for continuous back up or plug it in a few day later for a quick complete back up.
5|This is the 3rd Seagate hard drive that I have purchased.
5|I found out that this was the perfect item i needed to hold all my files.
5|This was a impulse purchase I am very satisfied with. Can't beat the price, cost less than a jump drive but 4 times the space.
5|Backup my Surface Pro 2, my wife's laptop a Samsung Galaxy 8 tablet and 2 cell phones for total backups.
5|Fast and efficient. I found it to be a good purchase.
5|GREAT PORTABLE HARD DRIVE. EASY SET UP AND READY TO BE USED. SMALL ENOUGH TO TUCK AWAY. NOT AN EYE SORE. HIGHLY RECOMMEND
5|The best thing I can say is that this does exactly what it should do. I do not have any issues with this device, I use it as a backup for some fairly large video files, it stores them well.
5|Picked this up for my Wii U. The ports on this system are all closely locked to 500mAh. With the single plug this cable comes with, it's not enough juice to run this thing. Picked up a micro-a USB 3.0 y-cable. 1 amp is not enough to power this drive (2 USB ports on the Wii U). So, took the power tip, ran a USB 2.0 extension cable from it, to an old samsung phone charger wall plug, and now it works spectacularly!
4|Works quite well, sets-up well, get seatools, online support is good
4|I am delighted with this product, but had to work a little to get it to act as only an external drive, NOT an automatic backup utility. However, it works perfectly once I got that straightened out! Tech support was great.
5|Needed more storage space available in MacBook so this backup did the job.
5|There is enough space on device to save photos and videos!
4|Been please with this product so far. Using it as a time machine backup for my 2012 iMac.
5|You can back up entire hard drives on this thing, definitely worth the money so you don't have to pay for cloud subscription.
4|at first was i disappointed to find that the particular external hard drive i went for was no longer available- but this was a little cheaper and is perfect! can you believe these things hold over 300,000 photos!? amazing!
5|I bought this as a gift for my friend. He said this one is very good. I am considering to buy another one for myself.
5|I backup each of my machines (3 macs &amp;amp; 1 windows) with this drive daily and change them every six months. Always excellent and never a problem. Would recommend.
5|Great little USB 3 drive. Used it to backup my data orion to formatting my desktop.
5|Slim, compact, doesn't clutter up desk/workspace, easily portable, if desired. Transfer rate more than adequate for my needs (using for system back up and file storage). I'm not highly knowledgeable about external hard drives but did research to help me make a selection. Seagate gets solid reviews; my experience has been in line with those of others I read about, and I'm pleased with the performance. Very good price for a solid product.
5|Serves its purpose. Needed room for my games on Xbox one and this worked for me.
5|was very easy to use and pretty fast download time
2|took me a while to figure out. not easy to install, doesn't come with lots of instructions. but it worked when I finally figured it out.
5|This is the third Seagate external hard drive that I have purchased and I must say that I think these drives are excellent. They are thin, relatively small, travel well, and offer abundant storage space. They are the ideal drive to use to backup important data and to use with laptops lacking a large hard drive. I have both 500 MB and 1 TB drives and they are the best external drives I've found so far.
5|This was a quick purchase for me. I didn't know a lot about external. It was easy to set up and easy to use
5|The Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive has more than ample capacity for all files and videos. My daughter loves it.
5|I was I a rush to get a hard drive for data and after searching for a little bit this one made the difference,for a little over 50 I got data worth thousands!!
4|easy to use holds vast amount of storage space convenient auto back up
5|This movie was great in the theater, so happy I was able to purchase
5|This hard drive is easy for anyone to use to back up your files and pictures. It's basically plug and play or plug and back up.
5|So far this external hard drive has been great. It's simple to set up and very portable.
5|I have used this brand before, excellent quality and value for the money.
3|Didn't use the supplied software, just dumped myself. It worked as advertised and was pretty cheap for an brick and morter purchase.
5|This works well with what we have. Using it as we need it. Works well.
5|I needed this when my computer had to get fixed!!! Everything got transferred over and there was still tons of space remaining!!!!
4|A good back-up but a little difficilt to use with a Mac
5|This a very good external portable hard drive. I purchased this because I was running out of memory on my laptop and this seemed like a very good option. I researched it after I purchased it and I got it for a great deal. I recommend this to everybody!
5|Programmed in and downloaded fast - exactly what I wanted.
5|Easy to use and effecient, user friendly easy to understand user guide
5|Very good, will need another! Very nice not to need a power strip, makes it very convenient to lug around..
5|I got this to recover photos from a pc computer that had crashed several years ago and it has more than enough memory, plus is compatible with my Mac.
5|An excellent product. Easy to install &amp;amp; easy to use.
5|Seagate is my go to for large data storage. I have yet to have one fail!
1|I shopped around looking for a reliable backup. I bought Seagate based on past reputation. Plugged in transferred 12 years of family photos (around 25,000) and stored in a nice cool and dry location. A few months later the drive no longer has access. Just making clicking noise. Sure I can send it back for a new drive and lose my data. Now my only option is to have a tech crack it open and recover my photos for more than I want to pay. Thanks Seagate. great product
5|The Backup Plus works great out of the box. No issues with the drive or the software.
4|This is great for storing excess data and photos from your computer. I have an older computer and needed to clear space so this worked perfectly! I recommend this product.
5|Price was good. Easy enough to set it up and start doing back-ups; the reason for my purchase.
5|Being from the older generation I found this product quite easy to use.
5|My son is using this drive for his Xbox to expand its storage for games and data. It performs well, is easy to setup, and doesn't take up much space.
5|FAST BACK UPS AND / FILE TRANSFERS. GREAT FOR MAKING REDUNDANT COPIES OF IMPRTANT FILES. CAN BE USED WITH OR WITHOUT SEAGATES BACKUP SOFTWARE. EASY PLUG AND PLAY - NEEDS NO EXTERNAL POWER SUPPLY. GOOD FOR BOTH MICROSOFT AND APPLE COMPUTERS. DEFINITELY RECCOMMENDED
5|Does what is supposed to do. Easy setup time machine
4|It works well does not feel cheap :-) compact handy to have easy to use just plug-and-play
5|This works like a charm for time machine backups on a MacBook.
5|This is a great device to have for backing up almost any kind of data. I was fortunate to get this when it was on sale.
5|I have had several Seagate's over the years both at work and home. They have never failed me to date. The one this was intended to replace is still working after 7 years. Keep going strong!!!
5|Getting rid of an older computer that has all of my music on it. This was a great way to save it and still have access to it on my newer computer.
5|Thin, streamline and effective. I has traveled extensively with this hard drive and it has never failed me.
5|Excellent price, excellent external hard drive! Very easy to use!
5|The Seagate external drive was easy to install and began its backup with no problem.
4|Great product, well worth the price. Lots of memory.
5|Saved my data from being lost as the computer was breaking down.
5|I bought it as emergency to save data from an ailing Surface, and it did it well. I wanted a straightforward solution, just to have my files in a safe place, and frankly it is difficult to get it these days: almost all backup devices come with cloud schemes, and at the end you do not really know where your files end up. Otherwise, I already use a cloud service, nicely integrated into the Surface, why to use another one?
4|The drive backs up my hard drive running Windows 8.1 well, but the Windows icon in the "Action Center" still does NOT recognize it to be connected and I continue to get the error message.
5|This external hard drive is perfect. I'm on the road 7 days a week. Great for travel
5|I wasn't sure which one to buy but this one was recommended by my sales person and I am pleased.
5|Great product, easy set up, compatible with my back up system. Works great.
5|Great product. We are able to store so much data on here and it's very easy to transfer data from our computer to this portable hard drive. Now we have so much free space on our computer.
5|Fantastic external drive. Has the usb 3.0 speed so data transferring is super fast!
5|I really like the reliability of this product. My wife now has plenty storage room for all photos. Thank you for providing this great product.
4|This product is awesome. I didn't have any problems with it.
5|Very good product. It is very recommendable. A good price
5|The Seagate 1TB drive was exactly what I needed. Easily transferred files from a Windows 7 PC for backup and to be accessed from a Mac.
3|There is no password protection built into the device.
5|Extremely easy to set up and use. Perfect size for portability.
5|This external hard drive is a very compact small device with very good capacity for back-up and off computer storage of files.
5|I love the new Seagate Backup drive. The amount of spac it provides is more than I will ever use, and the price was very affordable. It is small and easy to use and fits in in my purse which is a big plus for me!
5|These are so much better than the ones I used to have awesome product I like it alot very small with alot of memory
5|I got this to store my backup is my my families iPhone and IPad works great and easy to store away
5|good product for on the go and holds plenty of storage
4|Its USB3.0 and self powered, it makes a good snatch and grab device for personal items like photos and such. Words of Caution!!!! NONE of this type of drive are meant to be always attached to any computer. I've had multiple failures on similar drives costing hundreds of dollars to recover if even possible... You plug it in, do what you need, unplug it and store it with your "need to grab" items around the home/office.
3|This product is more difficult to use than expected. Need to read the manual in it's entirety.
1|I put all my files on this as a back up to go between Mac and PC. The transfer from Mac to HD was flawless. About 6 months later when I got a PC I went to put music and photos on it. Most of the data was corrupted in some way. The music files stopped playing at certain points and the photos had funky colors and shapes on them. I tried deleting and putting files on again, same problem with the photos but in with different colors and shapes. I will be attempting to return this, hopefully there is a 1 year warranty .
5|After losing everything to Google Drive, I got this so I can keep my own backups. The cloud is cool and all, but it lost over 30GB's of my music! No problems with the drive, and 1TB is more than enough for all my music, movies, and misc. files.
5|I bought this drive to transfer files from my old PC to my new Mac, a task it performed quickly and easily. Now it serves as a Time Machine backup drive, and I'm quite happy with it.
4|for the price. I never have issues with the Seagate Brand.
5|This is a good external hard drive and the price was right. I was able to use it easily on my laptop. I had trouble on my desktop due to having a previous Seagate product on it.
4|This portable hard drive disk work awesome no rpblems at all.
4|Great product works well looks great perfect for what I needed.
5|Purchased this to use for my xbox and it works flawlessly. Also love the small form factor where you can barely notice it is there.
5|The Seagate 1TB USB 3.0 Backup Plus Slim Drive comes with USB cable making it a perfect solution for copying over my photos and other key files from my laptop computer and 4 mobile devices while on a 3-month driving vacation across USA. I was guided by the service rep to buy the 1 TB slim unit for $10 more instead of the 500 GB unit I thought would be plenty and I appreciate the guidance.
5|Lots of space, and it's very easy to use on my Mac! Would definitely recommend to other people looking for an external hard drive.
4|Very nice external hard drive and small and compact in size.
5|Apple computer fail and backup worked great and all my info was saved.
5|This was a replacement to an older external drive (not Seagate) that suddenly quit working. Have purchased several Seagate in the past and have been pleased with the product and support. Definitely would recommend.
5|Great harddrive with lots of space for files and does not use a lot of space on my desk. Easy to carry around.
5|I don't know much about computer use and back up products. This product very user friendly.
4|So far I like this small external memory that I can use on Mac or windows
5|Easy to use to store backup for multiple computers, doing well.
5|A great buy for the price excellent drive fast easy to set up recommend this to anyone looking for a quick external drive
5|The iPad is a great tool for a college student. With the keyboard/case I purchased it is great for taking notes. In addition the camera allows pictures to be taken when Professor writes on the board.
4|I like this product, have purchased two other devices for my other computers.
5|I love the slim form factor. The connection is fast. The automated backup is fast, easy to setup and maintain. For the price, this is a great drive.
5|One that I can trust won't give up on me. It's also quite fast. This is my second Seagate backup external hard drive. Plus its slim feature make it extremely compact to carry around.
5|This is my first HDTV, and I am very pleased with the picture.
5|To put it simply, a terabyte is all anyone should need for their documents, and probably more than enough in most cases. On top of that, I have even run games off of the external hard drive and it works great. And as an added bonus you are able to send files to the drive remotely from other devices because of Seagate's cloud technology
5|The Seagate slim is compact and doesn't take up much space so it could easily fit in a small drawer or space.
4|Very useful portable HD. Good price. Excelent for photo storage.
5|Easy to use, no thinking required! Love knowing all is safe
5|Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black. Portable, Slim, 1TB size for a decent price, Excellent Product, Very satisfied.
5|Easy setup, smooth installation with no problems. I used Windows Backup utility instead of the included software for my PC backup. It took over two hours to complete, but I have USB 2.0 so I wasn't disappointed. Also backed up my phone using Wifi. Plenty of capacity, terrific form factor.
5|Works to fill capacity and I like it because I can transfer from my windows to my Mac with no problems. My brother recommended it to me now I recommend it to everyone
5|Compact and easy to use external hard drive. Great for storage needs.
5|Easy to use and has a sleek look... no complaints.
4|Product performs as well as expected. Very pleased with purchase
5|Easy set up and instructions. Installed, initiated, and it does the rest.
5|I am using this hard drive to backup my files and it is working great. I don't have any problems with it.
5|This drive is very portable and pretty fast. It only uses 1 USB port which is great. A good buy!
5|I like This external hard drive for its small size and ease of use
2|Its geared more towards a PC and not a MAC. Also not able to lock it down like I did with my previous HD.
5|Great external hard drive, especially for the price!!!
5|It is compact. Easy to use and transport. Setup was easy and self explanatory.
4|was easy to set up and easy to use, just what I need to back up files
5|It's a really great drive, very fast and reliable. The only thing I have to mention is my daughter has a Macbook Pro, and when she plugged it in and tried to use it, she could only READ NOT WRITE. I checked and the default format for the drive is NTFS, which her Macbook Pro running OSX 10.10 could not write. I had her launch Disk Utility and Erase, format FAT Extended, Quick It took a few seconds, and then it showed up where she had to click in Finder to open it, then it showed as mounted. From there, she was able to copy fine. Like I said, it's very reliable and fast once you do this quick step on the Macbook.
5|Love it! Was a great purchase and the service was excellent!
5|I/we have at least 4 of these they are for different purposes including using as a back up for files on my computer. My bf uses his to record movies through his satellite receivers they all work great!
5|So easy to use. Drag and drop. From start to finish all my pictures and document were saved. Didn't even take a full hour.
5|This new Compact design portable drive is perfect for traveling
4|Very happy with my product. I can recomend it, very good!
5|Very easy to set-up, small and easily stored. Also comes with software that updates regularly.
4|This harddrive was easy to set up and easy to read instructions. Has been backing up my personnel files every day with no problems. I did check it every day for the first week. Since then just once a week.
5|Great price, great harddrive. Its used to back up my files
5|I wanted to back up my new computer and needed something small enough to take with me when I travel. This product fit my needs perfectly!
5|I needed a larger external drive so I decided to purchase a Seagate. It transfers files so much faster than my Toshiba.
5|Fats transfer rate when used with a USB3 port. Good for traveling. Just enough movies,music, and pictures to put on. Light.
5|I'm currently using it for an external Xbox one drive and it is working perfectly!
5|We were looking to expand our memory and found this to be the best value for our money. No issues setting it up and it came with warranty.
5|The hard drive is really light, especially when compare to the previous model from Seagate I owned. The speed is also good. I can backup my computer and watch HD movie at the same time.
5|Great tool very easy to install . Easily accessible infirmormation in their web site
5|Lost my HDD and did not have everything backed up. Purchased this drive and able to back up everything and still have 3/4 of free space open.
5|I haven't had any problems, its easy to use, no complaints!
5|Bought this to backup all my pics It was the best purchase I have made in regards to backup drives
5|This drive is so tiny and stores an amazing amount of data with a screaming fast interface! My wife uses it to store her Lightroom library to go between two computers and the USB powered bus makes it far easier to plug and play. Seagate is the only brand I trust.
5|As can be expected was able to get my family to start using it without any hassles
4|Reliable Seagate name. Was easy to set up with plenty of space for backups
5|Love Seagate products. Works great. Love how small and portable it is.
5|The external hard drive is great to save my music on instead of saving them to my laptop.
4|this product did exactly what I wanted it to and that was to add extra space to my laptop
5|Works great , had it for 2 months so far and had no issues.
5|This is the perfect size; thin and light. highly recommend.
4|This backup was very easy to use. Our desktop has crashed a couple of times. We never backed up our files not anymore. User friendly.
5|Using this device is easy, it installs itself, and so far seems plenty reliable. 10/10 would buy again
5|Quick and easy to back up system. NO issues! The installation went exactly as instructions stated. Backing up took a bit because of the amount of data but I expected that.
5|Very easy to use and perfect compact size for traveling.
4|I feel a lot better having a backup that's easy to use.
5|A great, easy to install and use item. Recommended
5|I bought this on sale and has a nice design to go along side with the console.
4|Using this to backup my new computer. No problems so far. Works like a charm and I have plenty of space.
4|very good product works on PC or MAC ..great item !
5|Love my new external drive. Plug it in and use it. Very nice size for traveling.
5|Good bang for the buck. I use this to back up music and photos. Nothing fancy (hey, it's just an external drive) but does the job.
5|Needed a new storage device. Purchased this one with no issues. Slim and easy to transport.
5|The size of both the hard drive and memory capacity make this item perfect as an independent backup device for a computer.
5|So light and easy to use on both my Mac and PC !!!
5|Backed up my Macbook in about 45 minutes. Easy to use and store.
4|Easy to use. I just wish I would have been told it had to be used on a Mac first in order to be used on both Mac and pc. I used it on a PC first and apparently it will need to be reformatted to be interchangeable.
4|Good Device for the money. Well worth the time to set up.
5|I recently bought a new Asus Laptop for video editing and needed a new external HD. I love the look of this unit. It is the smallest "deck of cards" HD I've ever seen, and it's quick. Plugged it in and my computer accessed accessed it in seconds. Transfer rate is super fast too. Great little HD...highly recommended!
5|I wanted an affordable way to back up my valuable files and this has been an affordable investment. I feel more secure witha portable drive versus the problematic cloud systems that are out there.
5|I was able to make my downloads and had plenty on leftover space!
5|Got good on line reviews, and have had error free backups from this external drive
5|I hate the quality of mp3 files and have captured most of my vast music collection in FLAC files. Even with albums taking up as much as 400mb, I find that i can store plenty of music on these external drives and I have yet to have a Seagate drive cause me any problems whatsoever. I have had cloud service go out of contact and sound terrible. I have also had ITunes replace valuable recordings with something that clearly was not a "match." So I don't feel that a drive that is a little more than half the size of a traditional cd case is much of an inconvenience - especially when weighed against having no real control over my valuable music collection! I am also a musician and I am far more comfortable backing up my masters, samples and DAW program data on something tangible and physically in my possession. This is my third drive and I am sure I'll buy plenty more as I archive more music and movies.
5|I love having an external drive that make zero noise, is extremly compact and is nothing but a flash drive on steriods lol
5|Love the portability and having my music, files and movies with me.
4|Still learning how to use this item but from what I a told this is a good one.
5|Seems to work so far. Used this as an emergency measure to boot my MacBook. Main HD failed, so I put Lion on this HD and booted the MacBook just fine. Backed up the failing HD to this new HD and it worked great.
5|Seagate is reliable. This is portable, stylish, and everyone needs a backup.
4|got this for my sister for college. It's worked really good for her
5|I have been wanting to save all my pics from dropbox, but I reached the limit, and I did some research oh this item and got the time to use it and I love it, it has a lot of memory foe the price, now I can stop thinking about loosing all my data .
5|I was looking for a small, inexpensive back-up drive and this little guy is perfect. Runs off USB power so there's not a mess of cables and it's quick and easy to use.
5|I am very happy with this product. It works as advertised. I simply plugged it in and backed up my computer. It couldn't have been simpler.
5|I can slide this drive into my pocket. And I always found Seagate drives to be dependable.
5|Ever since needing an extra space for storage this device gets the job done. It's easy to use too.
5|This thing is my life when it comes to school. It holds four years of college pdf textbooks, research papers, music, and random files. It still has not made a dent in the storage space. It looks like I did not use any storage at all. It's slim, so I can carry it in my backpack. It's not hard to misplace or anything. It's worth buying instead of the small USB's. Get this instead because it will last longer.
5|what a great value, easy to use and very inexpensive , highly recommended.
5|Easy to set up. Works great! Good for extra storage and ease of mind.
5|This is a great product is easy to use and straight forward, it is light and small will travel very well.
5|This backup works great. setup was super easy. replace a WD passport that burnt out very quickly.
5|This drive is perfect for pulling apart and upgrading your PS4 drive. It's actually a pretty decent Samsung drive inside the enclosure, It's been working prefect. If you're careful when opening it you can use transgress an enclosure for the old PS4 drive too.
4|Great for any backup files or anythin needed to be store
5|How you you go wrong with this TB external hardrive? Smaller and lighter than a cell phone- extremely pleased with this product.
5|My husband recommends this device to everyone. He uses it on a regular basis.
5|Awesome external hard drive and you can't beat the price
5|We got this drive to save our previous one. It works great and reliable
5|I didn't want to store everything on my new computer and this small external device does the trick!
5|Overall a great choice, can be used with windows and Mac which is what I was looking for
4|So far, please with product. Lots of storage, little price.
5|Bought this on the road and it's a perfect size! Great amount of storage. Needed one that had usb not firewire and this fit the bill. Still going strong too. Love this lil thing.
5|I got this on sale so it was an even better price. Works well - this is the third one we have.
4|I bought this back up device recently because the one I had was confusing and hard to use. The old device was made by WD. Seagate seems to make a better product and I am happy with my purchase at this time.
5|Slim and perfect for the job! I would recommend this to anyone!
5|Recently upgraded from West Digital HD. PROS: Compact, USB 3, no extra power plug CONS: none
5|Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive is working in a perfect condition. I am able to transfer data from my PC to this disk very fast.
5|My wife carries this back and forth to work, saving her a heck of a lot of headaches; which saves ME a heck of a lot of headaches.
3|I bought this drive because it was rated for a pc OR a Mac. Came with minimal instructions. After installing, I couldn't create a folder. Googled it with the suggestion of a friend...ended up having to reformat for Mac. Why wouldn't they say that???? Worked fine after that....
5|We needed a back-up hard drive for my son's X-box 360. We were greeted by a friendly employee when we entered, told him what we were looking for and he steered us right to this solution. It is just what we were looking for.
4|I have one for each of my computers. So when I purchased the 3rd computer there was no doubt to purchase this brand. Of course, the price has gone down and the amount of memory has increased. I definitely like that!
5|This was the first external hard drive I have purchased and it was a great choice! it is easy to use and to figure out.
5|I purchased this to backup my Macbook. I have used it to do more and more storage since purchasing, and will continue to recommend it to others. Great Product.
4|Good writing speed. I use it to backup any type of files.
5|Is small size makes it perfect for all the traveling I do for work
5|This product is everything I expected, I am very satisfied with its performance.
5|Allows for the extra storage I needed at a reasonable price.
5|Great drive, very easy to use, and amazing for school! Bought this drive and I'm very happy with it! Very sleek and thin. Great buy!
5|If you have a windows computer and mac this is perfect back drive to use on both.
5|I have had external hard drives in the past, but this one is the first in which I have been able to access my files on both a mac and pc. (Other hard drives only allow you to open them in read-only format.) It's very simple to use, and it is small and easy to transport or store out of the way.
5|I bought this cause of a program I needed and the ability to take it with me wherever I go. The 1TB was a great deal, specially since the program took a bit more than half of the TB. The hard drive is quick and easy, pretty much plug and play. Comes with a cable so you can connect it to the computer through usb. There's a light on the drive that comes on when connected so you know it's active. The hard drive is also very quite.
5|I was beginning to question security for all the personal stuff I had stored in the cloud. I had an external hard drive previously, from another manufacturer and had difficulty accessing my files. This Seagate drive is great. Effortless installation and very easy to use. Everyone should have one of these. I have 45+ year old photos from my time in Vietnam and they are priceless. I feel very safe with them on this drive. Len Ganz
5|We only use Seagate storage products for our valuable files.
4|I purchased this as a back up for my daughter. It will easily fit in her backpack and not take up space.
5|Bought this for my xbox one. love the fact that its so small especially for the bulky size of the xbox games play smoothly off of it no lag at all..
5|very good product very good product very good product
5|Live this! Lots of memory for a low price. I couldn't ask for anything more.
5|This drive was very easy to use and get setup. I did not use it to backup a pc but rather a couple of network drives. I was able to easily select the files I needed and have them copied to the drive. I have been able to access the files as well as open and modify the files. This drive performs perctly for me every time.
5|These are great devices and are a very sturdy .. Love them
5|I have been able to transfer my pics and movies from my Mac Air easily. Transfers pretty quickly too.
5|So nice, I bought another one. I use the first one to share files between a PC and a Mac. The second one is for the Mac only and formatted to use with Time Machine. Directions that come with the drive are almost non-existent. I had to go to Seagate's website for user instructions for initial setup and use. That's lame. Otherwise, once the format is set, the USB transfer is fast.
5|I bought two of these hard drives for my daughters to back up their photos. One is a Mac user and one a windows user. Works beautifully for both.
3|Easiest setup and easier use. Automatically backs up everything and I plan on putting everyone from it on my new PC.
5|This little drive holds my entire iTunes folder and small enough to travel anywhere
4|Very easy to use and backs up everything on my pc!
5|WORKS GREAT EASY TO USE WORKS GREAT FOR WHAT WE NEED IT FOR
5|Works great for both Mac and Windows. Easy setup easy use.
5|I use this for my MacBook Air (back ups) and it does everything it should. It's nice and portable as well.
5|At $60 for 1TB, it's fast and efficient and best of it works with both PC and MAC.
5|I purchased this on the recommendation of a salesman to maximize the efficiency of my Xbox One. This was a great choice. A simple elegant design that takes up minimal space on my tv stand and it formatted to my xbox in seconds. I am very happy with my purchase
5|Transferred stuff from old computer to new PC. Works great for my needs.
4|That's one of the two I bought and it's been doing well!
3|This is a good portable hard drive. It works well, was easy to set up and runs smoothly. There is one issue I've found, it did not work to backup my mobile phone which it claimed it does. However I did not purchase it for that reason so I'm not all that concerned about it.
5|This such an easy product to use. We use it to back up family pictures and everyone is able to do it.
5|Very nice look and light weighed item. Super portable and easy fit on any pouch and backpack.
5|Out of the box, this product just "works". Plug and play, and you have 1TB of extra storage. I used it while in WinPE to transfer images of my harddrive over to it, and back to some new SSDs, and it worked perfectly.
5|Was able to successfully reformat it to work with my Linux OS. Very fast read/write with USB 3.0.
5|It satisfied my needs. Bought it for Xbox one external.
5|I bought this to backup all my pictures and music.
5|Fast threshold for quick transfers , I love USB3.0 devices.
5|bought several to use as backups for my work. Couldn't do without them. However, I wish it was vertical like the older models.
5|Bought this for a backup for my wife's MacBook. Plug and play operation with the Mac. Like the compact size and the fast retrieval.
5|My daughter loves the size and capabilities of this product. She recommends it to everyone.
5|The memory on this is really good! And it's very nice and simple.
5|Exactly what I was looking for! Very fast transfer
5|This HD is very compact and has fast read/write speed. It works for both PC and MAC without re-formatting. A good value for the storage capacity.
5|This external HD is very portable and fast. Great product!
5|It's an external hhd and it works. Beyond that, the preinstalled back up utility is pretty snazzy, but completely optional. I got a great price on it, so I'm happy.
4|The hard drive is great for back ups &amp;amp; storing photos. Very reliable. One side note: was not happy they have a specific cable for this hard drive. USB on one end and the other end can only be used with this HD. So, don't lose the cable.
5|Got this while it was on sale, used as a back-up for my pictures, great product, connect with both Mac &amp;amp; Windows, software included
5|Best price for fast, convenient, reliable and large amount storage
5|Purchased to back up a computer.Great product! Very user friendly
4|very good opportunity on prize value for sure will recommend it
5|Good drive for a good price. No issue with any of the 10 or so I've bought so far.
5|A good external hard drive. We use it to transfer our lab files for 3 scientists and still has lots of room left
5|Needed something small as a backup and worked great, it was fast and great price
5|Purchased for my wife to replace her old portable hard drive which had gotten flaky. The usb 3.0 thruput is only limited by inherent speed limits of energy efficient design laptop style hard drives.
5|This is good, it does what it is supposed to do. I use it for my Xbox One and have plenty of memory.
4|This drive is a good pick for fast, portable storage
5|I got this hard drive while it was on sale and I loved it! It was a great purchase and it has a very simple sleek design
5|It works great and was easy to set up. I like the auto backup.
5|Bought this for myself and the wife. This was a great buy!
5|Great price; easy to install as well as easy to transfer files
4|it was easy to use and pricing for the product was fair.
5|Very nice hard disk. it is small and compact and fast file transfer.
4|Very simple and easy to use. Did not have to read any instructions. User friendly and got the job done.
5|Works great as a plug and play backup for my files...
4|My only problem with hard drives is when they crash after a year or so. When new they all work well. I have a collection of broken ones and so far this one is working well- but I'll back this up too! Any suggestions as what to do with backing up back ups let me know!
5|Purchased this to backup files for an old OS. Overall very solid transfer speeds, plenty of storage for current technology usage, and comes with a nice Windows/Mac app that allows for cloud backup. All for a reasonable price. Nothing to complain about, solid build, solid purchase.
5|I purchased this for my Wii U as it has served well. The only problem is it comes with a single cord and you need a y adapter to give it it's own power
5|first time user, but seems to be working as advertised
5|I purchased two drives and they both are working well.
5|Could not believe the price for this unit. Was looking for a replacement cord for another brand unit. This was less money. Super compact and easy to use. The size and weight of a smart phone, which is great for anybody on the move. Drop it in your bag with USB cord and your ready to go.
5|We needed some external storage for the office. And this was perfect. It fits in your pocket and holds a lot of data.
5|Get these to backup your important files. Here is how I recommend you use it. Plug it in. backup the files and then unplug it. some viruses wil attack your external files too. Keep it unplugged most of the time, use only when you back up new files.
5|Segate hard drives are the best. Had problems with all other brands over the years, never with segate. The price was right (on sale) also.
5|I bought this drive because it was on sale and I'm impressed with Seagate products. This did not disappoint. It's well built and feels sturdy. The included backup software works fine. Now I have to wait and see how good the data is restored to my laptop if it ever crashes.
5|I love this external drive it's quiet, slim and works with both OS
5|I am not really familiar with the hardware aspects of computers, but have had no problems with this backup hard drive.
5|Haven't used it much to formulate an opinion other than the prices being so much lower than before
5|This is a really good external hard drive and I think the price was great
5|Very easy to get the backup configured. Fair price
5|This hard drive has amazing storage. I was able to back up my old laptop that had 8 years with of pictures on it!
4|This purchase has been terrific for my family. We use it most of the time. I like the color too. I looked at several and chose this one. The Traverse City store is large. It has many, many different items for sale. There is lot of items of one thing to look at and choose. This has a good price and so does most of the items they have for sale. I like what I bought. I like the way I use it. I'm very happy with this purchase.
5|love the size and amount of storage. take it with me on all my business trips. sleek build and travels easily.
5|very nice hard drive, small and powerful - also has software installed to set up easy backup for computer device
5|I've only used it once. I bought this to back up all the photos I've taken with my iPhone 6plus. The process was not complicated and I now have my older photos on the hard drive and have plenty of room for photos of my new niece. I haven't done anything else with it, so I can't really comment on how easy it will be to access the photos I have stored on the drive.
4|This was purchased for backing up a Mac via Time Machine. Works great for the intended purpose!
5|I needed additional space and portability to share files with associates and friends alike. This little wonder has tons of space, is inter operable with mac and PC, and is a snap to use. I would definitely purchase another one without hesitation. Super quiet too!
4|Somehow my work computer will lose connections to some of the network drives when I connect my storage drive.
5|great backup, compact size, working good so far. must have for storage.
5|Needed a safe storage for back up. Worked great, great price
4|Easy to carry. Light weight. Works well. No issues.
5|The best storage device I own!! I can retrieve my files quickly when needed.
4|This product works for me perfectly and I will recommend this to a friend.
5|This is my second Tera bit hard drive and I'm very satisfied.
5|This was a very good harddrive for the price it was listed. I luckily got it on sale and it works perfectly with transferring documents/videos from a Mac to a PC. Works great!
4|The disk is used to store photos, ample storage space and very easy to use.
5|I really like this hard drive it is very easy to use. I just plugged it in and immediately was able to just drag and drop files into it. There was no need to instal software like in other HDs I've purchased before.
5|Compact, no problems here. May buy another just cause.
5|Easy to use when backing up pictures and files from your computer.
5|This is my second hard drive. Very light and compact design.
5|This little drive is a great powerhouse to take on the road. It's small size fits well into my laptop case and being that it's 1TB, I can store all my files easily.
5|Easy to use, no difficult software and Lots-o-storage space. This was a breeze on my laptop using Windows 7, viewable right away and did a speedy back up. Great device.
5|Purchased the Seagate portable hard drive to store all my photos and it is so light, yet sturdy and reliable. I can travel with it and it does not take up much space in my bag. The file transfer is fast, especially uploading RAW photo files from my camera. I highly recommend this product for people who are looking for a backup that is compatible for MAC and Windows
5|This product fits my needs, Quality item, Good price!
5|This has been a great product. I think it was a good investment to make when I purchased my computer to give me the extra room for necessary storage that I might need.
5|Has enough space to fit my needs. The setup is very easy. Pretty quick transfers with the USB 3.0 cable.
5|I am NOT computer savvy at all, and this is so easy to use! Best purchase ever!!!! Highly recommend!
5|I needed a hard drive to store all my info just in case something goes south with my computer. This has enough memory to store everything I will ever need for a decent price.
5|I bought this to backup my photos while on a recent trip. This Seagate fit easily in a small pocket of my backpack. Easy to use. Portable. Very quick downloads, back home I transferred an entire 300G hard drive from an old laptop in less than 10 min.
5|I was looking for a low priced storage hard drive and the Seagate is just what I was looking for. Easy to install and use. I would buy this again.
5|Easy to set up with my computer and have lots of storage space.
5|Very easy to install. Very easy to use. Nice n slim and looks great. Great buy!
5|Works like it should. Can fit a ton of movies and tv shows on it.
5|Fnely I have tons of data storage, plus portability
5|Purchased this because I needed more memory capability than a flash drive. Allows me to transfer photos and videos.
5|There is certainly plenty of room for all the music I have on my computer and more!
5|This external drive is so small and light that I forget I have it in my bag.
5|Very pleased with the seagate hard drive! Extremely fast and very easy to use
4|I started using this drive about two months ago and it has performed just fine. I would buy this product again.
5|Perfect sized portable drive for backing up laptop. Easy to use. Don't forget to store in your safe to protect from fire.
5|This program uses a dashboard to set up updates. I can also set up for a continuous update.
3|It works just fine. Perfect for storing digital items.
5|Tons of space! Used for storing notes for professional school.
4|Great product, very easy to use and self explanatory.
5|I have never used one of these, so this summary is from someone new to this product. For me, this drive is very fast. It also has an app for my iPad that allows me to wirelessly backup it up as well, as long as it is plugged into my laptop. I have tried this and it works like a charm. The drive is very small and thin and is just awesome.
4|The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is that I haven't had it long enough! I bought it to replace another back-up drive that was showing signs of failing. As far as I can tell it works fine. The only shortcoming I'd say is that it only came with a USB interface; it would have been nice if it had had firewire 800 too. I don't use any of the supplied software -- no need. It's used with a couple of Mac's.
5|Was looking for a compact storage device and found a great one. The size was just what I needed
5|It met the need. The price was right and was easy to install.
5|Love this thing. It's small and compact. Super easy to use and 1TB! Perfect for saving all my precious memories and it made it so easy to transfer all my files from my old laptop to my new one in one shot. And it was CHEAP!
5|excellent product, very simple and easy to use. good deal for the amount of storage!
5|First external hard drive; was very easy to use and is small and easily stored.
5|This drive is fast enough and integrated enough that I can install and run apps from it without any slowdown. Works beautifully.
5|Product works great! I have four of these in my office.
5|bought to have when we visited grandchild - small and easy to use
4|When on sale, this is a great cost for a lot of storage space. Unfortunately, I am not getting the Seagate Dashboard to open appropriately on my computer and am having to spend more time than I would like troubleshooting it. Customer service is very helpful and friendly on the phone, which is a plus!
4|This is budget friendly. For the capacity is slim design. Only drawback is cord could be longer.
5|These external hard drives are great. I have several and have not had any issues.
5|Not much bigger than a deck of cards and a terabyte of storage. Easy to carry and is USB 3.0 for speedy data transfers. Like the Seagate brand hard drives too.
5|This is a really good product! Very glad I purchased it!
5|The seagate backup external hard drive is great! It's sleek, slim, and easy to use, I love it!
4|just brought home to work will hook up to see how good it works
5|I picked this little guy up for my Xbox 360 and it works great. It was as easy to use as plug and play and it is keeping up well with my game play. Seagate makes a great product at a fare price and I would get more if I needed them.
5|Easy to use backup with plenty of storage. Priced reasonably
5|Works well as data backup and storage at a reasonable price.
5|This hard drive is the greatest thing since sliced bread.
5|This product is exactly what I needed, a small, large capacity backup device. Works great.
4|I bought it to replace my Passport external disk drive. It works perfectly with my Mac Air.
5|Easy to use, installation was fool proof and the amount of storage you get for the price is great. Backing up my computer is also super easy and reliable.
5|Easy to carry and holds a ton of data. I have 3 and have had no issues
5|PURCHASED THIS TO BACKUP LARGE FILES INSTEAD OF HAVING THEM CONSUME SPACE OF MY LAPTOP. BEST PURCHASE THUS FAR!
2|Must connect with Dropbox, with I am not happy about.
5|Good Storage capacity. Good brand, reasonably priced.
5|great hard drive, you can bring all docs with you.
5|All I did was plug it in and was able to down load from my computer.
5|Unpacked it plugged the USB cable into the computer and was up and running
5|Got it on sale primarily for Itunes back-up. No complaints as of yet.
5|Title says it all. Crack open the case, remove the hard drive, swap it with your default PS4 hard drive. The end.
5|This product was plug in play for my MAC and a viable option if one does not want to subscribe to a yearly service
4|I needed to send a big chunk of footage across the US, and this drive worked just fine. It's a small form factor and the writing speeds were adequate. Not sure how reliable the drive would be long term, but I'll update any findings as they come. So far, I would recommend this drive as a cheap solution in a compact size for some reasonable storage space.
4|Bought because it had the highest amount of storage for the price. It's quick to load when plugged in to my computer or to my tv. No problems with it yet and even so, it comes with a limited warranty for about a year.
5|The unit has functioned well right out of the box.
4|It's small, fast, as decent capacity and doesn't get too hot. All and all decent hard drive for he price.
5|I love this external hard drive. I think it is great quality. I don't know much about it, I just know that it does what I need it to do!
4|Lots of storage for the price. I would recommend!.
5|product preformed perfectly. Simple to use and set up
4|Good Portable Hard Drive that takes a bit of time to go through its first backup (8hrs)
1|Couldn't connect to the drive after second use, all my data was still in there after I returned it..
5|Easy to use. No problems.Super easy. Like really... Love it!
5|More storage than I could use!!! Great backup!! Took me a couple of hours to download all my files and photos but well worth the time and price to have this added security!
4|The software that is needed to be installed is not the most user friendly. Once you figure out how to use it, it works very well.
5|It does the job it was built for. Will probably never fill it.
5|Using to back up computer files. Easy to use. Wish cable was longer
5|Well ,I was so lucky when I both because the price was chip for alot memory, and work wonderful , I storage my pictures, videos and movies for my trips.
5|it is fast and works well. The size and the price was about as cheap as amazon.
5|It was easy to install and it works. What more could I ask?
5|Does it's job seamlessly, once you figure it out. Simply follow the easy steps.
4|Easy to set up and back up hard drive. Laptop hard drive is full so I wanted additional storage space = want to move files and photos off laptop onto this drive. This will back up your files, but as one single file, you can't select and view individual files or photos.
5|I prefer seagate for upgrading/expanding my Xbox One storage. I currently have two different model seagate 1TB portable hard-drives connected and it is the easiest process. Plus seagate is always reasonably priced.
5|fast, compact, good price, I have several, excellent sale price
4|Since this is still new, I am not sure how much of a review I can give. let me play with it for a year or so!
5|For only $60, you can get a thousand gigs of storage. I highly recommend this to everyone who has files that they want to keep safe. Too often I've had to reinstall windows on a computer because of malware and as a result I've lost everything. But that was years ago. Now I use Ubuntu, but even still I sometimes I've had to reinstall Ubuntu because I got too excited in the terminal, and messed around with settings that I shouldn't have. As a result, I've had to restore my system and have lost files. Now I don't worry about that at all. I just back up everything to this external hardrive. On top of the fact that my files are safe, they are easy to take with me as the drive is very thin and small. It will fit into any bag or backpack without taking up space that is needed for other devices or chargers. As an Ubuntu user, I don't think this drive was made to work with Google drive on my machine - but there seems to be some cool features with this drive worth looking to if you are a Windows or OSX user and if you like Google drive. I am incredibly happy I bought it. It's a very good price and very good product. I recommend it!
5|Good buy. Easy to usef. Good brand. Will love to see the price drop more.
4|Good quality and easy to install. Always find the ink cart I need at staples.
5|This is an easy to use external hard drive. All you have to do is plug it in and follow the on-screen directions to download/back up any or all of your files and other items.
5|Installation is easy and very happy for what I bought.
5|The price of this hard drive is what drove me to buy it but i have to say i was impressed with the good quality of the hard drive. I made a quick review below. https://youtu.be/C2j0hpOPAic
5|This will help the new college student save space and stay organized .
5|I was looking for a hard drive that would work between windows and ios. this was the one the sales associate suggested and it has worked out great! great price as well (it was on sale)
5|I bought this to back up my info since my pin drive crashed and it is the best thing I could have bought! Great product!
4|I bought this product to provide portable external and back up storage for my IMac 21.5". Works well at providing automatic backup for pictures and video taken on my IPhone. The fact that I did not give the product a "5" rating probably reflects my lack of computer skills as I needed to get help reformatting the hard drive in order to have it automatically sych with my IPhone.
4|Speaking as a Mac user, it was very easy to set up. The outer shell seems sturdy enough. If you find it on sale, it's an excellent choice for beginners for both Windows and Mac.
4|Bought as a gift and the recipient loved it. She has used it to store all of her music files.
5|I am not "techy". So was concerned about trying something new,,,,but this product is really easy to use. It seems to do the job just fine.
5|Seagate makes the best hard drives &amp;amp; the price was right ($59).
5|Perfect compliment to any computer and it made transferring files from my previous laptop a breeze
3|Fair file transfer and slow file reading (iMac) Fair speed file transfer and fair speed file reading (windows)
5|I love this to store my file and pictures. Easy, buy it.
5|My daughter started grad school and needed to constantly back up her files. This was a great size and very affordable.
5|I needed something to transfer files from my pc to my Mac and this has worked excellently!
5|I found this external drive easy to set up and use as time machine for my Apple MacBook Pro.
5|I bought this external hard drive to back up my previous computer, and I worked like a charm and it is super slim.
4|It has good speed and works with my phone. It will not work with my venue 8 pro.
3|The backup drive does not work with Mac as desribed
5|Great Product at an excellent price. Small but powerfull and really fast.
5|My son was able to set this up on his laptop by himself
5|I was looking for additional storage for my computer. This 1 TB External Hard Drive has proven perfect for my needs. I've copied all the files from one computer and still have plenty of room for even more files. Definitely worth the money.
5|We use these drives to send projects back &amp;amp; forth between editor &amp;amp; sfx artists.
5|Excellent value. More storage than I need at a great price. Works flawlessly.
5|Put all my old school documents on as well as movies and music form itunes and i am a big fan.
4|Has been super reliable. Comes with desktop software that you can install and do a full backup of your PC. It backed up both of my hard drives I had on my pc.
3|Overall I am happy. A little challenging to find your files the first time. But now that I know where I am going, all is smooth
5|Great introduction to initiate uploads. Strongly recommended
5|I am using it with my desktop PC (W7). Seagate back-up software works as well as the Windows native back-up software.
3|I got this for my Wii U, and it was hard to set up. The Wii U needs to format it, but it couldn't do that. I had to go and format it on my PC first.
5|Has a lot of storage space and easy to setup on my computer
5|Easy to set up and I love that its small and portable.
5|Make sure that you have USB 3.0 drivers installed to get the most performance out of this hard drive....and make sure the USB slot on your computer that you plug this into is the blue one. It will still work on the white or black one, but the blue one is faster (if you have one).
4|Bought this external hard drive to use for my footage and edits. It is great and responds quickly, have no problem transfering big filea like 4K footage. I also partition the drive and ised it as a clone drive of my computer and it works great.
5|This product is easily compatible to a Mac love the space on it!
5|This is the fifth drive I have purchased and it works flawlessly. I replace my backup drive every six months and never had an issue.
5|Connected to my Apple Airport and it works wirelessly with Time Machine. Nice small device, better still, it does not require a power cord and it is noseless.
5|The drive was easy to install and set-up! It's programmed to backup every night, and I feel a bit more secure in our system.
5|This product is so easy to use and is very compact. Also at a very good price!
5|We are using it to back up all of our family photos. We have over 7500 and we still have plenty of storage space.
5|fantastic value,i was looking for a hard drive and found mine,this one
5|Relatively inexpensive for the amount of memory and relatively easy to reformat and use to expand PS3 memory.
5|It hold all the files I need and then some. The USB 3.0 makes transfers a snap
5|This hard drive does exactly what it should. GREAT
4|I like the thin small size and built tough for shipping. I'd like to see more colors. Works well!
5|I love that I can save information from my Mac and my PC
5|I love this product it's easy to use and lots of storage
5|Great technology. Easy automatic setup. Compact and handy tool.
4|Hard drive has been good. I am using to backup my PC hard drive data. I would recommend this drive. Good value for the price.
5|This is a great addition to a SSD laptop with a small hard drive.
5|Bought this as extra backup for a bucket-list expedition to the Galapagos Islands, and it was worth every penny. Somehow, a lot of existing pics on the laptop hard drive disappeared (later recovered), but knowing that there was an extra set of the daily camera downloads was an extra security blanket.
5|This drive is dependable and was a steal of a deal!
5|I like having storage with no moving parts. This item is name-brand, small, durable and an inexpensive backup for my thousands of photos.
5|it works good for Xbox one or whatever you use it for.
5|This is the fifth external Seagate drive I've owned, and so will the sixth, seventh and beyond. I've never had problems of any sort with their drives.
5|Its amazing for backing up photos and music. Copy and paste back to your folders
5|The Seagate 1 terabyte backup hard drive works great with my HP laptop. Running Windows 7. I am using it to store my photography pictures. This portable hard drive is suppose to work with XP, Vista, and Windows 8 as well as Mac, Android, and IOS 6,
5|bought this to add storage to my xbox one and it was really easy to set up. Only took a few seconds. works great
5|It is never a question IF a laptop will crash, but when. I bought this external hard drive as my back up. I love that it automatically backs up--I check from time to time and it is working like a charm!
5|So far has done the job I needed and was easy to use.
5|Im a novice with computer stuff and this very easey to use
5|We needed a hard drive to download all computer content. This product was perfect!
4|Have had one instance when my Dell computer would not read that it was connected and did not want to eject the device.
5|It was easy to set up and works well. I would buy it again.
5|Easy to use. Very reliable. For the cost, this drive is a great value.
4|I love the compact design of this portable drive. I can easily carry it in my backpack when I travel for work without adding any weight. It has sufficient memory for my needs. I don't care for the dashboard software. It's not useful unless you subscribe to the Seagate back-up service. Also, just a warning to always properly undock. I had the previous model that corrupted when the cord accidentally slipped out of the USB port. I've yet to recover those files.
5|This is a great dive for the size and price. I have three of these.
4|Best 1TB I have bought sofar, reliable good size!!
4|Can be used with Mac and windows. Good product to buy.
5|It is small and compact. easy to handle and has a lot of storage
4|Really compact product . Easy to use. Data access and transfer is hassle free.
4|Eliminate all your worries with this large backup drive. All the extra space you will ever need. This small drive takes up very little space. It's very easy to set up also.
5|i bought this as a gift for my brother. small and portable
5|This was wonderful. Couldn't ask for better product
5|The drives was easy to install and easy to use. I use it as a big thumb drive and it is perfect for me. Plenty of room to back up my important files.
5|Best little Hard Drive ever! Backed up all of my Music and Files.
5|Works well and is user friendly, which for someone like me is mission critical. Seems like a fair pride and 1TB is more than enough for me.
5|I do not worry about my documents any more great stuff!
1|purchased same 2 routers, neither would work, ugh!
5|Small, compact, and easy to use. Automatic backup.
5|user friendly. straight forward. excellent product. highly recommended.
5|Easy to use, plenty of storage so I could transfer important documents and photos off of the computer
5|The unit was as easy to use as simply plugging it in. Works well. No issues.
5|It is a great product that is very easy to use. I needed a way to back up my pictures from my phone.
5|Was on sale but would have paid full price. Works well with both iOS and PC
4|This drive was as easy as can be to set up and use. Good value for the price.
4|I have always stuck with seagate because they are a reliable brand and you can sometimes pick them up on decent promotions....Some additional protection around the unit itself would be great as I have lost everything more than once due to very soft drops :(
3|The HP drives have password protection when you plug in the drive. The Seagate has their back up software that is password protected. Not the entire hard drive when plugged in.
5|Needed a larger portable hard drive and this Seagate works well. It's nice and compact.
4|Great product from a good manufacturer. Using it to backup files
5|Easy Plug N Play interface. Works well with my MAC.
5|Needed a PC/Mac compatible HD to perform system backups and this worked perfectly.
5|This was a very good investment to keep up taxes, insurance policies, etc. I did this just case all my paperwork gets destroyed.
5|Love it. GREAT external hard drive. Easy to use!!!
5|Ran out of room on Xbox one quickly! Someone recommended this to us after we had been struggling to find a solution. Not tech savvy at all. This was so easy to set up and am so happy at the good price.
5|Great storage, everyone should have this storage system
5|Great product, highly recommend for xbox one, go get one
5|This is a ton of storage at an affordable price. It's exactly what I needed to support my photography hobby.
5|Good drive fair price. Used for backup and have not been disappointed.
5|Usually these types of drives come with a solid amount of pre-loaded files that you can't do much about. But not this guy. Plugged this baby right it and backed up everything from my pc to the kitchen sink. 1 TB is a ton of space, i don't think i'll have to worry about filling it up any time soon
5|Nice to have, to back up files. Comes in really handy!
4|Nice to know pictures and info are safe. Easy to use.
5|Small, great price for the storage. Very useful gear
5|Unpack, plug in, wait a couple seconds for driver load... and boom, it works. Couldn't be any easier to back up your files on the fly. And the cost was trivial. Coincidentally, I purchased this because my internal WD drive was failing... Go Seagate!
5|I needed an external hard drive for my Xbox One, as I already used up the internal storage. It is perfect. Works as it should.
5|I previously owned a large hard drive and switching over to this slim drive has been such a relief! It is easy to use and reliable. One of the best parts is that I can use it for my Mac and for a PC.
4|This was a good buy.It helped me to retain many songs from my music files.
5|This is my back up drive for a desktop computer, b/c when I travel, I can take it with me to have everything I need at hand. Easier than having to remember so many different passwords.
5|The external hard drive with 1 TB served My needs well at a reasonable price.
5|This is a good value and easy product to setup and use. Works great with apple iMac as storage unit and as backup disk. Easy to carry on trip.
5|Best external hard drive for the price. Sometimes it goes on amazing sale, so as soon as you see it at around $70 or even $80, buy it. These things are a must no matter what. I went from using it to backing up and restoring computers for friends to using it as a second xbox one hard drive.
5|My wife has overloaded her laptop with photos and we needed added space. This drive worked well, it was easy to use and helped get her laptop working correctly.
5|Like the Seagate better than my Western Digital, quick and easy to use, small compact size makes it easy to store and carry.
5|we use at work to back up server, flawless so far! For the price, great value!
5|Would 10/10 recommend this hard drive to anyone! :) Love that it is compatible with PC and MAC! Perfect for my workstation. The Apple tech recommended it to me, so I'll do the same for everyone else! It's fast, it's lightweight and it looks cool.
4|Nice product. No issues so far. Had to back up 52gigs of data from a broken computer &amp;amp; this came in handy. Small, compact design.
5|We purchased this item to store movies and short video to watch from TV. This product is excellent!
4|I bought this for my wife to backup her laptop with pictures and videos. It took quite a while for the backup to take place but it did the job. It works quietly and does not heat up alot like other models.
4|Drive used to back up my photo library very fast and efficient.
5|What's not to like about this 1TB external drive with its Seagate Dashboard?
5|Great for making backups to take off site. I backup my PC and take it to my sons house .
5|I purchased this to back up files on my personal computer. This works without a hitch. Very easy to move and organize files-docs, pictures and music. Not a massive piece of equipment to have. Definitely a needed item for your home computer or even the office computer.
5|Does what I hoped it would do efficiently at reasonable cost, nothing to complain about
5|Great product for daughter starting college, can save all important documents, reports, ect. Just in case computer was to have an issue.
5|Great cost and reliable. Lost all of my pictures and it was recommended to obtain this external hard drive as a back up. So far has been reliable and was easy to set up.
3|Good product for the price. Works as well as any other portable hard drive.
4|The hard drive installed without issues. It works well. I would likely buy another if I needed it
5|I got it on time. It was what I expected. It worked great with my sate hard drive from my laptop.
4|It performs its job very well. It's better than the others.
5|Purchased this to extend my xbox memory. Simple set up with no hassles.
5|I have purchased several Seagate External HD's and find them to be dependable and well priced.
5|I needed a drive that had lots of room for digital video and that would fit in my computer bag. This one did the trick, and performs quite well, even running the video off the drive. I'm sure I'll be using this drive when I'm on the road and need lots of space for photos, video or music files.
3|The size is nice, but the transfer speed on this drive is slow relative to 3.5 inch drives, even though they spin at the same speed.
5|Has allowed me to back up all of my files and freed up a lot of space on my hard drive.
5|I am using the Seagate as an extra backup for my documents. I am completely satisfied, being able to backup every document and photo folder in my computer. Works for both Mac and PC. Have used Seagate External HD in the past - I trust them.
5|Easy to use for storage of pictures and music. Good size for travel.
5|We purchased this to ensure against the possible crashing of our computers. This has an excellent system with software updates for product back-up when needed.
4|This Portable Hard Drive is very sleek, lightweight and easy to use for any person who needs extra storage .
5|Great external drive. Easy set up and use. Processes quickly. Note to those with both mac and pc products in the house, you need one for each type of computer. Initial set up easy and walks you through everything.
5|I purchased this hard drive in order to free up some space on my laptop and I am satisfied with my purchase. The unit is a great, portable size at a great price.
5|Easy to use from out of the box, did not need any directions.
4|This is the fourth Seagate back-up I've purchased. The first two were for personal use; one of those for a back-up to all my computer files and the other for video editing and pictures. My XP computer crashed and I was very happy to have had everything saved. The third and the current purchase were for backing up computers and files for our small office. So far, I have no cons. All the drives installed and set up quickly with no issues. I like that it connects via USB so there aren't any extra cables or power sources to worry about. Practically as easy to use as a flash drive.
5|Great for the novice - easy to use - didn't even need the directions
5|It´s really fast, premium user experience!!!!!!!!!!
4|Easy to use and compact. No issues. Great value for this backup.
5|This is my second Seagate hard drive for back up. I haven't really had any issues with them.
3|I gave a 4 star rating for this product because locating the backup files is not as available as an older Seagate product. I also haven't figured out how to set the security element. Taking too much time to locate items that were readily available and self explanatory on the last Seagate backup external hard drive.
5|Just what I needed. Works exactly as stated. Easy to use.
5|This hdd holds everything I need plus some extra storage
5|Reasonably priced, easy to set up, data is transferred quickly.
4|This is small and light with huge amounts of storage. For what it is, it 8s an amazing value
4|It delivers the storage I wanted for a good price.
5|This is my 2nd purchase after my first seagate became full. Probably the best one I've had so far with no issues
5|No need to be a techy person as files easily transfers both to MAC and Windows.
5|I bought this as an additional harddrive for my Xbox 360. It fits everything I own! It's fast and efficient as well. Its small and sleek and doesn't take up much room. Plus it doesn't make any noise! I would totally recommend this for all your Xbox needs!
4|Good waterproof video cam for beginners no issue so far got as open item it's worth what I paid for ..
4|great for the price, although it would be nice to view the files.
5|Wanted something more tangible than a flash drive to back up my work. This fits in your pocket and works great. Takes up less room than a bunch of flash drives cluttering your desk drawer -- and you won't waste time frantically checking flash drives for that important file you needed five minutes ago.
5|slim mice design. Small enough to carry. Holds all my files in one convenient place.
5|It's working great! It was easy to install and very satisfied with the device.
5|Apple yosemite just recognize after plugged in. Wonderful backup media unit.
1|Only had this product ten minutes when it stopped working! Glad I didn't erase any important data after transferring.
5|If you are looking for something to backup your computer or just store lot's of your files, this is a great hard drive to buy. This is great as an inexpensive plug and play hard drive. It is a quick enough drive with the USB 3.0 and it works well for what I need it for, which is to have regular backups scheduled on it for my laptop. This hard drive comes with software that can sync from your social media networks, but this feature is really not necessary for me. I bought this hard drive knowing that I would not use any cloud software with it.
5|Besides being a well-known brand, Seagate, this tiny 1 TB external hard drive works well with my Surface Pro 2.
5|Easy to install and use. Great price. Small and compact.
5|I use this external drive to back up pictures and music. When I first got it, I thought I would have to wait a long time to back up years and years of pictures, but it was really fast.
4|First things first, I'm a fan of Seagate; great data recovery, great warranty (longer than most other HDD manufacturers out there), and premium product. With regard to this drive: it's nice and slim, feels light (which was more of a con to me) and I use it as a dependable back up drive. That said, I opted for a lower priced competitor's drive for my go-to for media storage (I'm a videographer); the other drive seemed more robust in housing design.
5|Works as described, durable, and compact. Would purchase again.
5|Good hard drive, setting it up was quick and easy Fast transferring files to it from my mac.
4|Great for storing movies music and backing up your systems.
5|I was looking for a portable hard drive, this is a perfect compact drive at a very good price.
5|This device is awesome! It is very easy to use with Mac products and transfer of files is seamless.
5|Drive is great for travel. The 3.0 USB allows for fast transfer which is great, so far no problems
5|Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black is a great drive for speed, size, and convenience.
4|Love the size and power of having a 1tb drive with me and that it is USB3 for speed.
5|The dashboard helps keep everything organized. Uploading from your phone is a luxury. Good overall product. Worth buying.
4|I don't like their backup software. Only bought this brand because they ran out of Western Digital which I prefer.
5|Bought this for extra room for my xbox one- files and games install to it instead of my internal drive- never had a problem with a seagate unlike other brands *coughWDcough*
5|Bought to backup a Macintosh computer in the office. Reformatted drive for a Mac and it works perfectly with Apple TimeMachine backup software. Small enough to hid in a small opening in a desk and very quiet. So far we have not had to use the backup and I hope it stays that way but is comforting to know it is there.
5|I bought this 1 terabyte external hard drive for my Xbox one because I was tired of deleting games and apps to make space for new games. This hard drive works like a charm. Plenty of space and I still have all the 500 gb available space on the Xbox one. This is beyond simple to set up. If you own an Xbox one and you need more space, then this is the external hard drive for you!
5|Simple, easy to install, easy to use. Attractive, modest in size.
5|Seagate is a trusted name in external hard drives. This one is small, easy to use, has 1 TB of memory, and it was a good price.
5|Setup is simple and the included backup software is easy to use.
5|...small footprint, large capacity....everything you need in a backup! YES!!!!!!!
5|Fits nicely into my purse or backpack when traveling for work. Slightly larger than an iphone.
5|awesome price, awesome size, very portable. Like this product very much
5|Ton of storage and easy to set up. Just plug in and it's done
5|I like the compactness of the device. Works very well.
5|I really like this product. It did just what I needed it to do . And I thank you very much.
5|This portable hard drive is great. I use it to store all of my movies and music on as a back up drive. I havent even put a dent in the space on this thing. Highly recommend to those who want to get their stuff out of the cloud and off of their computer hard drives. This thing is a space saver in more ways than one.
5|I have had this product for more than 3 months now and so far have nothing to complain about.
4|I've never been a fan of the programs that come with an external hard drive, and this is just another of those instances. The program took an eternity to move everything, and most of the time it just got stuck halfway and didn't progress any further. So I gave up on it pretty quickly and just moved items from my laptop directly onto the hard drive, and that works great. So far the hard drive has been running smoothly and backing up things properly, so I'm satisfied!
5|Works great for the added space I needed. I use it daily for all my school work.
5|works with all computers, small and easy to carry. Lots of space. Great for backing up your stuff!!
4|Very nice external hard drive. I had one problem immediately fixed with customer service. Functions well. My only problem is that at times I am not sure how it functions.
5|This external hard drive has a good transfer speed and very convenience size
5|I had it set up in no time and with a few clicks was off and running with it.
5|Everything works fine it's a great hard drive to have small and easy to use
5|Nice shape, mostly i like it's weigh and Works very well and copy faster, plugged on 2.0 usb but speed seems ok for me. And still works perfect
5|We got this portable hard drive when it was on sale. It was so easy to hook up! It is literally ready to use in minutes!
5|This is perfect if u need a portable fast way to store things &amp;amp; the storage capacity is great. The drive is another Seagate triumph I can rely on. The price is a really good value &amp;amp; very easy to set up &amp;amp; it's so small..the size of smart phone or a little bigger...
5|This is such an easy product to use! Very small and portable. Price was awesome, too!
5|Works very well, performance is great. Very good buy for the price.
5|Like the product...wonder how long it will take me to fill it with data
5|Great price value. Perfect for backing up multiple PCs in your household.
5|was easy to just remove from the box and start using immediately
5|Great way to keep your pc backed up. Easy to set up and schedule your backups or use it as an additional drive.
5|i really needed this item!! Works great! Easy to use!
5|I use this for backing up my server and it works seamlessly.
4|Good deal it's nice that prices have come down on external hard drive and make them bigger
1|Our other Seagate work great. This one crashed within 2 months and erased all data.
5|Nice, clean design and works great. Very pleased with this so far.
5|Slim and compact, yet holds an entire TB. Easy to use - my backup takes no time at all.
4|Bought this to transfer audio files between a MAC and PC.... Works great
5|I am so pleased with this new external hard drive...I can save EVERYTHING!! Will be buying and additional one to use to back up my files.
5|Worked great better than using a flash drive. Would buy it again
5|I purchased this device to secure all my family photos on. it was very easy to install and holds a very large amount of data.
4|good for data backup and worth the price. Glad I got it.
4|Not being good with high tech, this was easy to use. So far, so good.
5|This is just what I needed to save all my favorite photos
5|These are great quality external hard drives. Would suggest not leaving them plugged in around the clock though.
4|Good performance overall. Ease of use is important.
5|It is slim and fast, copy all my documents in few minutes.
5|Purchased it for safety and ease of use. Love it a lot.
5|I have never had a Swagate drive fail. I've retired the old ones like well worn pants, because I out grew them.
5|It's a big ol' HD simple as that. Plug and play and store anything. Easy as that!
5|I really enjoy this product. Very helpful and fast.
5|i bought this to transfer my stuff from my old computer to my new laptop, and with this it was really easy, i can also store games for my xbox one!
5|Works great product I had no problem with it..i recommend it
5|Small and light. It is a great buy because it is compatible with both Mac and Windows.
5|Excellent external hard drive easy to use. Very small not bulky
3|Followed the directions to a T but had trouble getting the program to work on my Apple product. Worked great on my PC and the price was great
5|Great hard disk! Great price! Definitely recommend!!
5|Very Sleek and Simple Looking Device, Easy Download and Instructions. Stores Tons of Pictures and Files.
5|My laptop doesn't have a lot of storage and I take a lot of pictures. This has all the storage I was missing and then some. And its easy to use!!
4|So far so good. I have had no problems using this device. the 3.0 usb port gives me quick transfer speed.
4|Great for backing up your computer. Take your files with you.
5|Small, compact. Works great. would recommend for anyone.
5|These Hard drives are great. I currently own 6 of them. My production company uses tons of hard drive space. We are constantly on location dumping cards and these are perfect for us.
5|seagate is best when it comes to hard drives. they last long then any other in market.
5|This product is helpful when you have three stories in your home.
4|This product was easy to work with, from my PC to my MAC.
4|I haven't had any issues since my purchase. I would recommend.
5|I bought this to backup all my photos &amp;amp; music on several PC's. It is pretty easy to use. I did have to use their support to get it to work properly on one of my older Windows systems but I was amazed to get an accurate and rapid response right away. Their support is excellent. I was very impressed.
5|This drive allows me to store photos from my PC and work with them on my new MAC
5|This product is really easy to use, and very simple to use.
5|This was recommended to me by the Apple Guru. It was definitely worth the money. It was easy to set up and use on my own.
4|Easy to set up ,easy to use. It does exactly what it says with no hazzle!
5|This product is great for anyone who needs to back up there personal files on there computers!
5|Easy to operate and holds a lot of files. I'm happy.
5|I used this drive to backup my files from a Mac to be used on a PC. I was able to download a driver from Seagate that allowed my Mac to copy files to the drive without formatting to a Mac file system. This was very nice, since I was able to backup my files and still have a Windows file system on the Drive. The drive works well, without any unnecessary attempts to put the company's software on my computer automatically. They offer backup software, but it isn't forced down your throat. It is very fast when using a USB 3 port on the computer. The included cable is short, but it gets the job done.
5|The quality on this product is amazing, the price is great and it works perfectly with Mac and Windows.
5|Has plenty of storage space. Works with ease. Easy to manipulate through.
5|Very satisfied with Seagate backup plus. It has USB 3.0 which makes transfer of files quicker.
5|We use the Seagate for a continual backup device for our home computer. It was easy to install, slim so it doesn't take up much space, and stores a lot of information. The Seagate is also compact enough to carry with you while traveling.
5|I needed an external drive to do a quick backup before changing computers for an overseas trip and this works like a champ. The utility was quick and easy to understand and I was able to keep things backed up continuously during the trip so nothing was missed when I returned.
5|Works as advertised. Good little external hard drive.
4|trying to figure out the storage from one computer to another can be a bit tricky...but once i figured it out, i love it!
5|Peace of mind is easy to get with this portable hard drive. Just plug it in and let it do automated backups whenever your want.
5|I transfer all the photos from my DSLR and save back up copies of important documents. The user interface is easy to use. The wireless backup of your smart phone is a nice feature. Slim design makes it easy to take it anywhere.
5|Great product. This is my first external hard drive and the set up was easy. Backed up my entire MacBook in no time.
5|Simple to set up, fast and very portable. Great deal!
4|compact, nicely design and works great with windows 8.1
5|Good drive at a good price made by a dependable company
5|Great Seagate product that was priced well, compact size, and easily portable
4|works great on my windows partition. But isn't recognized on my Mac. Might need to reformat.
5|Gives me confidence that my photos are protected for years to come
4|Easy to setup and use with lots of space for backing up our data
5|I am Seagate user from long time. I always trust this brand hard disk lives forever for this brand
5|Easy to use. It is small, light weight and only needs one cord.
5|Exceptional storage device. Slim design and portability is the bees knees.
5|Use it for my laptop for work and personal, very light
5|The external HD has plenty of space and is very easy to use. Love its compact size and how it is compatible with Mac and PC. I had a buddy load video from a PC and i can watch it from my Mac with no issues what so ever.
5|Offering the best of any portable external hard drive out there on the market today, Seagate's Backup Plus 1TB USB 3.0 Portable hard drive is the only 1TB portable drive worth recommending. Not only is it a high-quality drive, but the software behind it is exceptional as well, allowing backups via both other local drives and the cloud.
4|this product works well for what it is needed for.
5|Gives extra space on computer and allows me to take more with without bringing entire laptop when not needed.
4|I needed to have a good external back up for my slowly dying laptop and this is perfect- It has a ton of room and so simple to use!
5|I bought the Seagate external hard drive to back up the massive amount of pictures I have. It was easy to install and I quickly moved my pictures. It is a relief to know the precious moments are now backed up and secure.
5|It works great on the Xbox one for your games and applications
5|I bought this up transfer files from my PC to my mac book.
5|It is light weight and compact. Easy to use to store files.
5|Excellent product. Great price. Would recommend highly.
5|I really wanted this product. I had used Seagate external hard drive before and was satisfied with it. I am sure for the bigger memory capacity I will be able to store/back all of my files. I just hope this one will be just as reliable as my old one.
4|This is plug and play. It formats it self. If you can read you can handle this product.
4|Nice little on the go drove. Seems to transfer better on USB 2.0 than when using 3.0. but that's not a deal breaker .
5|When we visited the store we were looking for something easy to use and reliable plus affordable the store employee recommend this item and it met every one of our expectations.
5|Easy to use, works great. Did exactly as advertised. Backed up a ton of photos
5|This drive is very fast when using the USB 3.0 connection. Seems stable and I have had no issues. Great device!
5|Got it on sale, saved a few bucks on it. Great little device, portable, small, goes great with my application I bought it for.
5|Has been a plug it in, set it up and let it go. Has been very reliable
4|Bought this to back up my music and photos. Plenty of space. Transfer was a little slower than expected, but worth it for the price.
4|This product is okay for students who don't need small thumb drives
4|Be sure the Seagate model under consideration is "STDR 100010" and includes built-in software to perform prompted backup. Although it may appear identical and cheaper, model "STDR 100001" offered by an online source did not provide the menu for backup and create a system image. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB external hard drive is also called "Dashboard", and conveniently plugs into both a USB 3.0 and a 2.0 port on the PC. My first backup of 72 GB took one hour using a 2.0 USB connection.
5|Fast hard drive when used with USB 3. Very good product.
5|I purchased this to store some family photos. Easy to use, permanent storage that will go in my safe deposit box as a back-up for irreplaceable pictures.
5|I recently purchased the Seagate Backup Plus Slim Portable Drive for our computer.It is not only a great thing to have for computer backup if your computer crashes, but also convenient for your mobile devices. Great product.
4|Great compact size that conveniently fits in any computer bag!
5|Novice techie here. Does the job for me, backs up my files, pics, photos, etc... Plug and play.
4|External hard drives aren't by nature exciting--the Seagate is no exception! And that's just fine. It's a backup-backup for me, and it does just what I need it to. I don't use the fancy stuff, just "Send to..."; and that way I get an effective, efficient backup up for the 2 - 3 computers I rotate through several times a week. It's a bit heavier than the one I generally carry around, but it's sturdy. So, that's ok because it really sits on my office shelf when I'm not backing up my backups once a month.
5|Easy to install &amp;amp; use straight out of the box. The automatic backup system was a little intrusive, so I uninstalled the software &amp;amp; just manually back up my files periodically.
5|I'm a Mac owner and this external hard drive worked without a hassle and was reasonably priced.
4|Cant complain, Im using it already and this is a repeat buy.
5|Very tiny and compact, excellent speed, and price.
5|Good drive, very small form factor. Good performance so far. Fairly priced.
5|Great drive for archiving/transfering large files.
5|I only but Seagate and Toshiba drives these days. They are well built and tend to last longer then soem other brands.
5|I like the slim and light style of the external hard drive. Perfect for extra storage or back up
5|Good external drive, decent price, Using to store photos and relate stuff to/from shoots, works well. Have another just like it that is my archive.
5|I have a 500 GB on one lap top and bought this 1TB for my wife's new lap top. I have had no problems with either one and they are very simple to set up. I got these 2 drives at different times but they were on sale. Fantastic drives and very slim.
5|Compact, easy to set-up, very useful back-up drive
5|I would recommend this to anyone with a computer for backing up your computer on a regular bases. In case you happen to get a Virus that hold you hostage for money to release your files.
5|Grate product at a really good price and it's very small
5|great product and it is very easy to use. just plug it in and go.
4|Never had a problem with this hard drive. Can't beat it for the price
4|The hard drive is alright. Nothing special. it works okay for me.
5|While my preference is the WD drive, I couldn't pass up a good deal. This Seagate drive was on sale. So far I am very happy with the drive. I have a couple of Seagate drives I use for archive and they serve me well. I expect that this portable drive will do the same. Again, a carrying case is always a good thing.
5|Always good however I am not sure what I purchased last.
5|i love that fact that you get the driver for mac with this harddrive so it can run on both windows and mac
5|This works perfectly for my needs, nice form factor, good speed, great price!
5|Excellent product, transfers files very quickly, small and portable. Great price/ value.
1|Useless!!! my phone load programs and games faster then tis HARD Drive my windows doesnt see files from it so i have to update or fix or show way by hands... TRASH don't even think of buying it
5|Very nice unit and easy to use, its plug and play at its best.
5|Good storage for the price. Moved hard drive from desktop.
5|The item is very nice . I think it's a product what I need everyday .
5|I have had two of Seagate's competitor external hard drives fail in the past 18 months. My analysis said that Seagate was the best out there - and their price point was exactly in my budget!
5|It holds my files and information. It also is black. It also makes coffee
4|This is a fast and affordable hard drive. It is great for backing up a computer or just files that are important and you don't want lost.
5|This is a great product no problems at all with it.
3|I bought to make room on my laptop but it didnt make much more room. Not sure if i was doing something wrong
5|I had plenty of space to download all of my information. It is a great tool for backing up data.
5|I like the slim light form of the external hard drive. comes in handy and the size is great
5|It works great and i got it at a great deal. More than enough space and its small n sleek
4|Easy to use. Very reasonable price. Does all that I need it to.
5|As small as a cell phone. Powerful and fast downloads.
5|Easy setup and portability. Very fast data transfer. Bought several for work forensics exercise. Hopefully won't need any more but if so will definitely consider these.
4|this is my first experience with an external drive and so far its good,
5|Easy to use and gets the job done for keeping data
5|Unit is small. Easy to use. Works just like an extra drive on my laptop. I travel from FL to PA. I can leave the unit and have a friend attach the hard drive to their computer and send me any files I may need.
4|hard drive works great, loads fast and installed easily. Perfect size for portability.
5|I have this item for another project and have had no problems saving and retrieving documents from it.
5|The portable hard drive is very easy to use, lightweight, and compact.
5|I bought this to use for Time Machine backups, and it works perfectly. Great throughput!
4|Great for backing up files on your computer and smart phones!
4|Bought this to replace an old one. Wish it came with a pouch to carry it. I use this for business and take it home each night.
5|Its large and it backup my file with room to spare,
5|This is our second of these drives. Working well. No issues. Speedy with the USB 3.0 connection - of course with the speed limitations inherent w/ the laptop type harddrive inside of it.
5|Great storage capacity for the price. Space could be divided for both Mac and PC.
4|It is light, compact, and fast. Storage well suited for my needs.
5|Very easy to use to do a backup.takes up very little room
5|Perfect for our needs. Would recommend to others who need a safe way to back up lots of things!
5|This portable drive was easy to set up and use. It interfaces well with my computer and holds everything that I will ever need.
5|Compact and reliable. Easy to carry along with me.
4|Very easy to backup any device. Good for saving pictures,video and music.
4|Love these drives, I've owned several for various functions. Portable, easy to use and have saved my data more than once.
5|Easy set up...plenty of storage...everything I needed
5|I was looking for a backup drive for my windows updates and this works great
5|used to backup laptop. easy plug and go recognized by computer first time (Mac)
5|We bought this to backup our lap top. It was well priced and seems to be doing a great job of providing reliability for the hard drive. Plenty of space to include pictures and gaming that eat away at your memory.
5|I found this very easy to use. Holds plenty of data.
5|I totally love this product. The only difficulty is deciding what to name it lol.
5|I saved myself over hundreds of dollars buying this product versus buying the name brand one from Xbox
5|This is definitely a must have for someone who likes to take photos or record videos. I don't have to worry about creaking my computer with the hundreds of files. Plus being a new photographer, I'm constantly taking photos, so storage was very important to me.
5|fast and reliable. it works as designed and i haven't had any issues.
5|i found this drive to be a great backup drive...and the sale price was the best price I could find for a similar drive
3|Had trouble with the drive trying to backup over and over again . I had to pull the pause plug a few times . It was like a running race horse.whoa fella. Working better now.
4|Operates as expected. Convenient size and travels easily.
5|works easily in windows. I like it. Great back up device.
5|I am not too tech savvy, but I am able to use the Seagate to access the files on it from a previous laptop hard drive. I am confident that I will be able to back up additional data from a different laptop.
5|we needed something to store family pics on so this was quick and easy
4|This is a great external hard drive that is small easy to travel with and also worth its value. I recommend buying one if you are always on the go. The only bad thing is you have to format for what you will be using. An example would be that you can't import files from a MAC after you format it for PC and vice-versa. There is an option for both and I would suggest it to save the hassle.
3|Easy to use. Great idea to save your pics and music on
5|For me I just got a Mac and needed to transfer stuff from a PC and this one works with both and works great
5|My other external hard drive was on the fritz. That hard drive was a Seagate as well so I thought I'd continue with the brand. Easy to use, copy files, etc. Glad I was able to backup all music files, photos, docs. before they were lost!
5|Bought this to backup my failing computer. Worked like charm.
5|Easy to setup. Can work with MAC or PC. Great size!
5|It is small and light, but has a large capacity and is very fast. No setup time needed, either.
5|I needed to back up my data on my computer and the tech recommended that I get a an external hard drive to do so. He suggested that we use a Seagate Backup Plus Slim with a capacity of 1TB/TO. This would allow us to backup our data about every 1 to1-1/2 months.the product seems very good.
5|Just the piece of mind knowing that my entire life is backed up on this external hard drive is a piece of mind.
5|Great unit to backup your files etc., they will break or fail all computers so play it safe and back it up. Someday you will be happy you did.
4|I bought this drive for my Xbox One and am pleased with the results. It is a solid drive that runs smoothly with no hiccups.
5|I had a windows 7 laptop going bad and wanted to store all my files. Just plugged this in and copied over all my folders and files. I'll use it as an extra external back up drive on another machine later.
5|My previous external hard drive bit the dust recently so got this one. I was able to transfer everything I wanted to -- about 400 mb of data to the new Seagate. It did take a few hours but actually went faster than I anticipated. It's USB 2 and 3 compatible so it will work on older systems like XP and newer systems like Windows 7 and 8. So far it's worked like a charm.
5|Works great lots of storage space self powered through USB.
5|Great for on the go data transfer. Also sleak design seems to make it durable.
5|I bought this item and used it for my Xbox One, needless to say it has made life a lot easier being able to save more games on it and bring it to friend's houses.
5|I have been using Seagate products for the last several years and have been very happy with them. This portable hard is no different. I use it between home and work and it is very reliable.
5|I have been using Seagate products for years and have always been happy
5|A very sleek fast little external hard drive/back up unit, extremely simple to use with lots of capacity.
5|Great product for the price. Love how small and slim it is.
5|It did everything that I needed it to and still has TONS of space left!
5|this seagate 1 Tetra memory is easy to use if you know what your doing it a breeze storing and transfering music or any other info as backup
4|Exactly as advertized works great, can sync your tablet or ohone without using a computer
5|Excellent Product, Excellent Price. Great Buy for the money.
5|works perfect, slim, fast and looks reliable. nice quality
5|Only brand of external hard drives I use. Very reliable.
5|Great for my very busy world travel. Well worth the money. Works great.
4|Great price - very sleek looking - fast - just what I needed for iTunes library
5|Feel better knowing I have backed up my data! Love that is was so easy to use.
5|size, weight and performance are excellent. Having no difficulty. Like the way it just plugs in and works.
4|Plugged it in and it worked like a charm! Does just what it's supposed to. The slim size is nice, too. Just wish it had a built in/attached USB cable, rather than it being loose.
5|Lots of storage for a very small price and made by a really good company.
1|Worst purchase ever! I put all my data from 10 years on this and planned to then back up the drive with another drive, but before I could do that, it DIED! Seagate was no help - they said they do not warranty against data loss .... so what's the purpose of putting data on there if you don't want to keep it? I will NEVER buy another Seagate product!
5|This hard drive has just the amount of space I needed. It's easy to use and I got it on sale. Happy with this product!
5|This is a really great backup system. It is very easy to get set up and works like a charm.
5|Recommendation was made and it was just what I need.
4|Easy to use and works well with my. Computer......
5|I purchased to back up my work files. It is easy to use
4|Not really a whole lot to say about this one. Very solid for the price. Speed is great. Love the portability.
4|Very god product, easy to use, cheaper and small..
5|Got for my Wii U, works flawlessly and is very sleek. Just needed a y cable for compatability purposes.
5|First external and won't be the last time I purchase. Highly recommend
5|I bought this for my son to carry school projects back and forth. It's easy and can carry all he needs.
5|Easy to set up and small enough for travel, durable exterior.
5|It was easy to use and just what I needed to get the job done
5|Easy to use, just plug into your computer and download your pictures easily. Holds tons of pictures, its slim and lightweight.
5|In my line of work I'm constantly backing up data. It was easy to use right out of the box. It backs up my data everyday with no problems. I love this product
5|If you want a great external hard drive which has no issues down the line, then get this one. I own many brands, but this one has turned out to be the best.
4|Great portability, considering you get 1TB in something not much bigger than an iPhone. You must install proprietary Seagate software to read/write on Mac if formatted for PC. I have decided to use it on PC only, since the install failed on my Mac. All around good for the money, but not super friendly between Mac and PC systems.
5|Set up was simple. I've had no problems with data backup.
4|Love this hard drive easy to use, thin easily hides on my desk top
5|This was easy to install and setup and works like a charm. Very happy with the purchase and the extra storage it provides at a great price.
5|It is great has a lot of space and it supper fast.
4|The small size of the product and the amount of memory was the reason I purchased the 1st one. I found it easy to use. When I needed backup for other computers in the house, I bought 2 more. The only reason that I didn't give it 5stars was that I've never used it for recovery.
5|Bought this as a storage backup for pictures, etc..fits the bill.
5|I needed a large external for storing pictures &amp;amp; videos...and this one fit the bill!
4|My laptop crashed a while back and I didn't have a backup, it's definitely worth it.
4|Camera easy too use. needs repair, handled very professionally.
4|It is backing up my files and is easy to use. I continuously get update requests, which is annoying but at least I can keep the software and driver up to date.
4|My daughter helped to select this item, so I could free up my iphone space!
3|This portable backup hard drive is very easy to use
5|Good portable backup hard drive plenty of space for everything.
5|I love it, very easy to use. No problem with installing- great product!
3|Nothing flashy but worth the money. I've been satisfied.
4|this unit got the job done - worked well - easy to understand instructions -
5|This is the perfect drive for your external MacBook air, MacBook, and MacBook Pro backups. Just attach and assign as your Time Machine drive and let the computer and the backup plus slim do all the work. Seamless and seemingly failure proof.
4|This external storage device is huge at 1TB. I have backed up all my files and music and still have room to spare. It is plug and play and very easy to use. Highly recommended.
5|I was buying the Mac recommended external hard drives, but they had run out of stock, so I bought this drive that was suitable for Mac and PC. Since I was using it on a Mac, I was a bit concerned since I had read that some PC external Drives would not work well with my Macs. That was not the case with this drive. It runs every bit as quietly and efficiently as the Mac External WD Drives. I could not be happier with this drive. It does what it is supposed to do with no muss, no fuss.
5|This is a great way to carry all the files from my at home laptop with the small travel laptop I have just purchased. Easy to use, even for a beginner.
4|Good value, easy to use. convenient usb 2/3 connection
5|I use this for large videos (or rather, my wife does), and it has had no problems whatsoever.
5|This is a great backup option particularly for those that want to save files in a separate place away from the computer location. Fits in pocket. It is a bit slippery, so some caution is suggested when moving. I do not have USB 3.0 on my current system, but I was able to transfer files fairly quickly.
4|Very good/Easy to use/functional, /easy set up/recommended to purchase
5|Quick and very responsive excellent drive for storage of media and personal files.
4|Needed to free up some space on my hard drive and picked this up to move over a bunch of music and videos. Was a quick plug and play install and then just drop and drag folders to be copied over. Not sure if there is anything that would set this apart from other external drives, but I am happy with how it performs for the price. Doesn't look half bad either.
4|Does what I bought it for. Won`t be losing all my files in case of computer crash.
5|I have had no problems with this external hard drive. I am very pleased with the quality received for the price paid.
5|Bought this storage to go between our Mac and PC. Works great!! Make sure to format it if you are going to use between Mac/PC. Body of unit is strong and compact.
5|Perfect for switching from MAC to Windows and back
5|The external hard drive is so easy to use and the 1TB is huge.
5|After my computer crashed, and I had to take it all the way back to restore it to the original condition when I purchased it, I learned to BACK UP my work. It was a mess to re install all I had on the computer.. Bacjup Plus Slim will be there for me if it ever happens again.
5|Wanted a portable hard drive at a reasonable price. Put it to good use when the computer hard drive had issues. Restored from the portable drive ....and all is well! So glad we got one and backed up regularly!
5|We bought this for my husband to store his graphic design work on and it is great for back up storage.
5|Haven't had to use yet, but will provide good back up if my computer crashes
5|It's amazing. It works like a dreams. Quiet and sufficient
5|This was really easy to set up, and we are able to use it on two different laptops without any issues.
5|Very easy to use. Plugs up to a USB port without problems. From there, drag and drop. Couldn't be easier.
5|I was looking for something with a large amount of storage that was not too heavy on price and found this little beauty to be exactly perfect for what i needed
5|I bought this to add space to my MacBook. I am able to store all my data files and not take up the flash storage. Fast access and still room to grow.
4|Great product for what I needed it for! Have not had any issues!
3|The hard drive worked well initially but the instructions were less than clear. I had to get an experienced computer person to help me. It worked well on the first computer but then was more tricky when I tried to use it on other computers. Everything transferred great from the hard drive to the computer but not so well in the opposite direction. It serves it purpose but I am not sure I would use it to back up my hard drive.
5|Great for School information back up/storage and knowing files are available when needed. Love the ablity to have it external.
4|This is a very durable and reliable hard drive for all types of usage.
5|Very simple to use great product and very reliable
5|Purchased back-up after good experience with an earlier version of this external drive. Highly recommended. Worked as I expect it to. No complaints.
5|I'm very happy with my backup drive. It does exactly what I need it to.
4|fast access, good size footprint, decent price....can't get better than that
5|Needed to back up a laptop prior to servicing. Seagate was good value for the price, easy to use, compact.
5|We purchased this to backup our old system and transfer files to our new MAC. Easy to use...
5|Excellent value for the amount of very portable storage, for the next one I may get the wireless or blue tooth version, but with a 3.9 USB this is very fast and clean backup and remote storage device
5|Easy to use and hook up, nice slim profile and light
5|I had no problems installing this as an xbox one external hard drive, and would recommend it to anyone.
5|Easy set upwith simple directions met my needs and family needs.
5|Five T is incredible and not to be believed at the price.
5|i do not have any complaints. I thought it was easy and quick to set up
5|I have my pics, videos, music, &amp;amp; documents on this hard drive. It's fast &amp;amp; easy to use. It's very slim &amp;amp; compact. I have no problem saving &amp;amp; sharing with this product.
5|this hard drive has backed up my computer several times and I feel like I can trust it to retain my files. plus being a consumer electronics award winner doesn't hurt!
5|I am putting all my music files on this device. I have a lot of files, but I'm sure there will be plenty of space leftover when I'm done.
1|I bought this drive to store movies on and it fulfills it's purpose.
4|I like that this unit is black and hardly visible. It take up very little space on my desk. It handles SAVED Files very Quick and easy.
5|cheaper than other drivers , silent and great quality
5|This Seagate portable hard drive does exactly what I need it to do. Very reliable.
5|My last external hard drive was also a Seagate. Had no problems with it except that I exceeded its capacity. Staying with a winner.
1|Cant get it to function properly on a mac with saving quicken files. Waste of money!
5|The software was quick to set up and it does what it's supposed to do. I've only had it for a couple of months so we'll have to see how long it does it for. There is not much more you can say about a product like this.
5|Great storage for the pc. Easy to setup and configure.
5|Love this it's small and easy to use. I can use it for PC and my Mac.
4|This works great to store pictures, files or anything else important.
5|Slim HD with lots of space! I would recommend this product for storage or for moving data around.
5|It has a large capacity for storing all my genealogy documentation and pictures.
5|The Seagate was cost effective and had the capacity needed to support our data backup needs.
5|Good for on the go storage, especially for my music.
5|My girlfriend loves her gift now she can save everything from her computer 2 the hard drive
5|Works really well. Very quiet and comes with a nice dashboard feature that simplifies the back ups.
5|i was looking for a device to pair with my Mac book without paying hundreds of dollars. Good quality!
4|So far, quite satisfied that I got good value for the price, and it's being put to use. If I ever have to test the completeness of material backed up, that will be the real test that will tell the full story.
5|Plugs in to USB &amp;amp; save items like a jump drive. I don't need a lot of memory space so it works great for me.
5|Working fine on older PC with only USB2. More than enough space for my needs.
5|It is a great price for it. It download things very quickly. We love it
5|Very easy to use, great price. This helped me back up my computer and save important files without having to buy a new laptop.
5|This drive was formatted for the DVR and is working great.
5|A resident of Arkansas who has personally experienced the catastrophic damage capability from severe thunderstorms and tornado, these portable hard drives were purchased to be used for off site work back ups. This seagate drive interfaces flawlessly with Window 7 Professional operating system. It is user friendly &amp;amp; the USB 3 speed allows me to work in Filemaker Pro and Microsoft office files on the drive without transferring to the computer.
5|Good price great size and the software will auto download our families device photos and documents everyday after initial setup.
5|I give this Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive 5 stars! It backs up my entire hard drive. I don't have to worry about losing anything that is important to me.
5|Easy to use and works properly. The product was is excellent conditions.
5|I purchased this to offload some data from the hard drive on my computer to easily accessed storage if needed. It has been easy to set up and use.
5|My old drive ran out of space and was bulky. This is great it fits perfectly in my computer bag, plus no power cords to worry about.
5|I got this to expand my xbox one to hard drive space.
5|I now have two of the same great product . Great help at the rim helping me find it
5|Works great and light weight. Easy to throw in a bag fro extra storage or a back up drive.
5|Easy install. The software is easy to install. Setup was straight forward. Overall a great experience.
5|USB 3.0 speed is really fast. 1TB Space is more than enough.
5|I use this external hard drive as a backup. It is essential for keeping important and sensitive files.
5|This is a great storage device. I was able to save family photos with no problem.
5|low price, compact, can easily put in my laptop case
5|Very easy to use and reliable. I use it with Carbon Copy Cloner.
5|I am very happy with my Seagate Slim Portable Hard Drive. It's very economical, fits anywhere and it's usable friendly.
5|Very durable and lite. Can take around the world and not be bothered by the weight in your computer bag.
5|Works as advertised, quick and easy to use n easy connectivity.
3|We bought it for our Wii U, it works but keeps saying there is a problem with the connection so we have to buy a special cable
3|I hear from my tech people there are better versions
5|I will recommend this product to a friend. Very good and portable.
5|Very easy to set up! it's nice-n-quite, and it's so small yA don't even realize it's there
5|The portable hard drive is very slim and processing is very fast. Good buy!
2|Haven't used it much. Seems a little complicated to me but I think it is only because it is new technology to me.
5|After searching for a portable hard drive, I opted for this item based on a pro's evaluation. It is easily attached, very simple online instructions, and has sufficient options.
5|This item holds tons of movies. Easy to use. Lightweight &amp;amp; portable so I can take it anywhere.
5|I purchased this external hard drive to store files from an old computer I was retiring until I could review and decide what to keep. Worked very well and its use will be expanded for other back up storage.
5|This is an easy to use backup system for a non-technical person.
5|works great does all l wanted/ was easy to install.
5|It is an excellent additional source of memory storage for any computer, espectially the MacBook Pro. Its greatest advantage is ia very small size thus making it very transportable.
5|Easy use and secure. Good price and value. Highly recommend
5|Love the product and can use between my iMac and my Lenovo computer
5|Frees space on the computer with tons of storage and helps keep data secure.
5|Needed to save some of my downloads so I can get computer cleaned up! Did what it was suppose to do with a great price. Recommended! Thanks
3|functioned as it was described by the associate who helped me
5|I found it easy to install and setup. Very competitive price
5|I'm using this as a backup drive. It installed easily, seems to work well and is simple to use.
5|The new hdd' are way smaller and less costly than what they used to be. Love the design!
5|This is a great external Hard Drive. Just plug it in and go. It even fits in my purse.
5|Easy to travel with. easy to use. I copy video's to and from the hard drive often. The 3.0 speed is much appreciated!
5|product is slim and small plug and play easy to install
5|Great piece of technology .makes me feel safe to know i'll have my stuff backed up. Easy operation
5|Very satisfied with this hard drive. I was able to store all my photos and still have lots of space for many more..
5|This HDD comes in several sizes, i decided to pick 1TB as that was enough for me. 1TB disk also looks slim and nicer than the larger 2TB drives. The black color looks the best to me, but silver and even blue are pretty nice. The average speeds I got from this disk copying to SSD were around 80MB per second , which is pretty much the maximum for the disk, and is not a restriction on USB3 or SATA interface. I cannot speak to its reliability as i had it only for couple of months, but so far i have not experienced any problems. overall, i consider it a good purchase and would recommend, in fact i have recommended it to my friend.
5|great product, i will recomended to anyone,great price
5|Super recommended! Easy to carry on, manage and use.
5|Works great for what I needed. It was a fast and simple setup.
5|It took me a while to understand that you have to use Time Machine to back up a Mac with this hard drive. Once I figured that out - it was sooo easy!
5|It is awesome, I had/have over 20,000 items. Safe.
5|This is a real nice small sized Hard drive considering it has 1TB of memory. Great for travel.
5|I bought this to hook up to my Xbox One. It was extremely easy to just plug in and get the system to recognize it. It needed to be formatted to work with the X1, but that was simple also. It's working fine and I don't notice any delay in my gaming.
5|All the Seagate portable external hard drives are sleek and I've never had one fail on me before. They are all the same size/shape so everything matches.
5|I have a Seagate GoFlex Home and i needed something small and powerful to back it up. This did the trick. Easy to use and installs very quickly.
5|Great price and availability. Needed a hard drive on the way to the airport. Excellent value!!!
5|Needed storage for old photos and this external drive was the right price and the right size.
5|Great for storing personal documents. Just plug it in, save and store away in a secure location.
5|Does what it's supposed to. Small in size also. Worth the money.
5|Easy to set up, easy to use, my favorite kind of product to have.
5|Easy to use. Has great available storage capacity.
5|Plug in and start saving your files, photos or music. Compact enough to fit in pocket and take to work for more transferring or sharing.
5|Smal and portable and easy to use for when you need to back up your data
5|Hard drive is very fast and responsive even though not a solid state drive. Very compact. Would and will buy again.
4|Backup is a 1T and is very easy to use. On board menu and 3.0 usb makes it faster then most
5|Great storage device for people on the go! everyone needs one!
5|Needed to backup a lot of pictures and music. This is an easy to use storage device. No problems just works
5|Good price and easy to use. Would recommend. My first one,
5|Very stable and robust I became big fan of Seagate
5|I purchased this product to create additional space for my Xbox One. Quick/easy installation.
5|The drive has worked well for me so far, small and light but does not feel cheap.
5|Slim and portable and plenty of space to back up two laptops.
5|this drive was a little pricy but worked prefect with my mac book pro
4|Very happy with this purchase.i would recommend it.
5|I have two already, was familiar with it and bought this one for a friend.
5|Monkey push the button easy to use. Met all my needs
5|I use this hard drive for work and love it! No problems at all. It is small and compact and gets the job done.
5|Love the seagate brand of external drives. This little drive is small and compact, but has alot of memory. Works perfectly with my laptop. Very easy to use!
5|Our last external hard drive bit the dust, so we had to purchase a new one. The Seagate is easier to use and conveniently sized. The connections are firm, which was a problem with our last hard drive. With 1T of space, we have backed up 3 laptops with plenty of room to spare. If its longevity measures up to its performance so far, we will have a long and happy 'relationship' with the Seagate hard drive.
5|I had thousands of pictures to download off another computer. It took no time to do this.
5|Got this for my son whose Apple computer had a hard drive issue. He needed a large capacity for it and a MacBook he has - it does the job.
4|I bought 2 of these, mainly to house and backup my 58,000 song collection. They've been great so far, handling data transfers really well. The only thing I didn't like was that the connection from cable to the drive doesn't seem like a standard type of connection... I've never seen this type before.
5|Yup, stores info just fine. I have backed up all my music on this.
4|This back up has worked great every time I have used it.
5|Extremely easy to use and the slim design makes it convenient.
5|Works well and easy to use. I gave it to my daughter to save her pictures.
5|Installed the backup software and it backed up quickly. Automatically backs up as you save files. Can't think of an easier way to do it. Very pleased.
4|Great to have on hand when you need to back up whole swathes of a hard-drive. Relatively quick and quiet.
5|Good product, setup took less than 45 seconds, fast reconnect. Transfers small and large files quickly and efficiently. No problems. Seagate done good on this drive.
5|I bought this hard drive because I take pictures and videos as a hobby and I let to share them. This hard drive makes it really easy to do that.
5|I use this everyday to back up my laptop and I use it to store other things on. I absolutely love it!
5|the external drive works great. It is a great size , I don't need a bulky external hard drive. Easy to find my information on the hard drive
5|couldn't be more please with how easy it is to work with this unit. Had a WD and it died within the first year. This is my 2nd one the first one is almost 2 years old and still working fine.
5|Using it for Mac Time Machine backup. Its been doing its job invisibly for a month; no problems. Ask again in 10 or so years.
5|I purchased this to transfer data from PC to Mac and also to store pictures. The user is not technical and he was able to easily connect and move the files without formatting or reformatting between the different operating systems.
5|More space than you could dream of using as the average user. This item is much more than I expected and easy to use. I feel much safer now that my photos and files are safe from hackers.
5|These Seagate drives are a blessing. Very handy, and always work properly.
5|This was my 1st portable hard drive. Not having anything to compare it to, I'd say it works great! After installing the software, I moved all of my music, pictures and movies from my PC for transfer to our new Macbook. The transfer is very fast and drive is silent. I'm satisfied with the product and the price I paid.
5|Anyone can use this backup. Very simple, easy and fast to use.
5|Very easy to operate. The continuous backup feature assures no loss of data.
5|This is great for backup of your data!! Just plug it in to install and it will back up your drives automatically!!
5|My WD external hard drive quit after 2 years. This Seagate is a lt easier to use. You don't have to unlock it every time you want to save a program
4|Great value for a back-up. Easy to use. Very compact.
5|This drive offers me the portable storage I need with potential speeds up to USB 3.0. To me this is an excellent drive to pack and go with me on business trips.
3|Works well on continuous backup, difficult to manage on weekly user defined system. Not very informative on their Dashboard software. Otherwise, seems to do a decent backup job.
4|It's fast, very quiet! Was expecting much but I am happily surprised thus far! Great for storage.
5|Nice to know that if I have a brake down Seagate has the information stored
5|Ii love it. It was really easy to hook up. Not like the old computers.
5|This item shipped in a very timely manner and has been superior operationally since hte purchase. It is not only serving my needs it is superior quality, easy to store and take with me. I keep all of my files on it and plug it in whenever I need to access them. Its ideal for anyone who wants to keep and store lots of photoss and older documents stored. I love it.
5|The computer service agent was very helpful in steering me into a the Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - replacement.
5|Very easy to use just plug in into a computer and that's it.
5|It works well for me. I am able to do exactly what I wanted for.
5|I use this device to back up my laptop regularly. It is super easy to use; and it is very compact. Because it works so well, and is so user-friendly, I now back up my computer weekly. I am delighted with this device; and I gladly would buy it again!!
3|The hardware does what's it's supposed to do: it's just a fancy thumb drive with a a lot more capacity. The automatic software for backing up is awful. It backs up only what is new in a separate file with an impenetrable and meaningless file name. So, if I am looking for something, I have to make my way through any number of files. I simply move things I want to save manually. I'd recommend this if I really didn't like you.
4|It is what I need for storage all the files, music and pictures
5|Bought the 1TB Seagate external to backup my home files on my Mac and Timemachine ran perfectly! Very easy to use.
5|I've owned the external hard drive only a month or so. It's very easy to set up, fast, incredibly small makes a fine time machine for my iMac.
4|I got this and had to google how to use it on a mac, but once I did that it was super easy to use. It's light and compact and I take it every where I take my laptop.
5|I bought this USB for school work and it is perfect fot me and you. Easy to use and portable also, it is not that expensive. I really recommend this item
4|Very easy to use .. plug &amp;amp; Play. Invaluable to the transfer of data from my damaged old computer to new one
5|Only needed 500 gigs but bought this one for twice the storage with minimal extra cash- much better value.
5|I think this is a great product for the price. I would recommend this product to everyone
5|Purchased for my college student daughter and she loves it
5|Plus: 1. It's fast, 2. The build quality is good 3. It is small but you can still use the drive that's encased for other purposes (replace it, use it in a laptop, etc). 4. The cable is short, this can be a plus or a minus, depending on preferences... 5. The white LED is pretty and pulsates slowly when there's activity. 6. It's silent. Cons: 1. It doesn't have any rubber feet (or any feet) on its bottom side
4|This is a great device for back up. I strongly recommend this product. Easy to use and store it.
4|It is slim and easily accessible on the go. Free up space from the computer.
5|Formatted 1/2 of it (500 gigs) for Mac and left the rest FAT. Supports Time !achine on the Mac and allows me to move large files easily from Mac to PC.
4|Easy to install and use. Good durability. Sometimes hard to shut off.
5|Very good external hard drive. Bought it for xbox one. It was quick to hook up and formatted in no time. No delay when reading from it and noise is only noticeable if you put your ear up to it
5|It is what I need to store extra infromation that was on my computer.
5|Works well for what I need. Able to use Bitlocker is a plus for securing the drive.
5|Nothing wrong with this product, I am using it every day.
5|I have fooled around with external drives a little in the past....when an extra 40 gigs meant a lot!! ha ha I constantly needed to manage space on internal drive and CHOOSE what I would backup to external. NO MORE. Got this 1TB USB3 drive and no more worries. More space than all my drives combined AND smaller than my smartphone...means I can take it with me easily and connect to multiple PC's/devices if I choose. Great product. Love Seagate !
5|Love these drives. Very easy to use. Never had a problem.
5|This is my second Seagate external hard drive and it always works well. I have no complaints on the product performance
5|Works great, just plug it in and use it.I had no issues with using this device.
4|Good product for the price,have the satisfaction that you won't loose data
5|No problems...great price! would recommend it to anyone who is looking for an external storage device.
2|I've got three pcs and one mac, downloaded all my stuff on all my computers to this hard drive and then tried to access it the next day. All my pcs would not open any files saying I had infected/damaged files. This was a surprise to me since all files where inspected and worked fine. I went through everything the company said to do and more, everytime I ran tests that took forever it turned out all files were fine and there was no reason I could not open the files on any of my three thinkpads T43p computers. If I plug it in to the mac all is fine, no problem is I need it to work on my PC's! So now I'm back to flash drives..... This is not what I signed up for!!! I talked to many people at the company and did many, many emails and nothing helped. 100 Bucks down the drain.
5|This external drive is sleek, fast, quiet, and overall a great item. I use it for college and personal use on the daily. The price sometimes seems a bit steep, so you might want to wait for a sale.
5|It's a good product that just works quietly in the background you forget its there
4|Overall I like this drive, but Mac setup was difficult
4|Nice storage for a great price. Easy to access and beginner friendly.
4|I would say that it is very easy to install, very easy to use, very easy to connect with computers, laptops, ipads, and any device that had a USB drive.
5|Not an expert on these devices and nothing to complain about
5|this hard drive is easy to use. It's a nice small shape so it's very compact and easy to carry around. If you drop it won't break easy. I definitely recommend this and Seagate is one of the best brands and hard drives there is
5|This drive is a great back up drive for my Mac. It was easy to set up and I love how small the drive is physically.
5|did what it was susposed to do in order to make room for more data on the C drive.
4|first time user of an external hard drive. easy to plug in, fast download, software prompts.
5|Fast delivery. Small, very sleek &amp;amp; easy to transport. Plenty of space to backup all devices.
5|I purchased this hard drive to backup all of the files on my MacBook. Very easy to use!
5|I've used many of these drives in the past and they work great.
5|Worked just as expected. Very good product for use with my MacBook.
4|This is a pretty decent external Hard Drive, very easy to use and has served my needs .
5|Purchased this device because it works with both Microsoft and Apple products. You can store from one device (ie Microsoft) and move to another device (ie Apple).
5|I use these drives when I am traveling so I can back up files from my laptop. It is fast, easy to use and reliable.
5|I bought this over a month ago, and in that time it has worked just as I had expected it too. Main reason for purchasing it, was to alleviate some storage space on my main hard drive, because that was starting to bog down my speed. Hooked up this new external drive, and transferred what I wanted over to it, and boom my laptop speed increased by quite a bit. Highly recommend this product, and based on price and brand, you cannot beat it.
5|Good price for a backup and very easy to use even if your not good with technology
5|Super fast, small and dependable. Seagate makes a great product
5|Good product and quality and service good price ok
5|I back up all my photo work and have no problems with this drive. Install was fast and easy.
5|works great. takes its time to transfer all your files safely.
5|Coool, Slim and fast. Love the password protection. Wish I had got the 2 TB for the same price. Too good. Owners pride.
5|I've used this Seagate external hard drive for a year and am very happy with it. I partitioned it into two drives. One drive is for Time Machine backups on my Macbook and the other is to store files that I share with my desktop that uses a Windows operating system.
4|This external hard drive seems to be decent. I backed up my stuff just fine. I only bought it for emergency situations. Time will tell whether or not it was worth it.
5|easy to manage and keep with you from home to work/ school.
5|This is a great thing to have especially if you have many pictures and not much memory on your computer.
5|Bought it at a great price; brought it home; plugged it in; worked perfectly. Still working perfectly. My only regret is that I should have purchased TWO of them!!
5|Just what my son needed for extra space on his xbox 1
4|The Geek associate who assisted me with my problem and, ultimately, the choice and buy of the cd replacement drive and back up system was top ranked. Impressed with his knowledge, concern and speedy response, I followed his recommendations and purchased accordingly. The cd drive and back up system have been put into play. The cd drive works fine and, without having tested it, I believe the back system is working well.
5|Drive was easy to set up for my Mac computer. It could also be set up for a computer using both IOS and Windows, however I have no use for that option. Reasonable price.
5|I backed up my entire computer with this device and still have tons of room.
4|Good service easy product to use. Infomation downloaded successfully . Would recommend it
5|I love having enough storage for both my PC and Macbook on the same drive! It's small size makes it perfect to carry with me, too.
5|Portable, light, easy to use. I like it. It's definitely a good choice.
5|will pay again when needed, compact and easy to use
5|This storage drives allows me to free space off my ipad, but yet have it easily accessible if I should need it.
5|Easy to use &amp;amp; perfect product, this is my 2nd !!!!
4|Works great and small enough to throw in your pocket
5|I needed storage and transportability of several large files. This allowed me to save the files and take with me anywhere. It is compact, light and able to store a ton of data.
5|So far this handy easy to use external HD is great for storing my pictures.
5|Travel with this hard drive is a breeze. It is easy to pack in a bag and fly anywhere.
5|All of my music recordings are backed up on this smart device!
4|Easy to use, simple set up, does what its supposed to do quickly without fuss.
4|Good quality portable drive. Compact and durable. Nice
5|I use my Segate Backup for my everything I want to save, I do extensive Genealogy research and I back it up everyday. I don't have to worry about having to find that elusive item for the second time. I know exactly where I can fine it in a few short seconds.
4|This is an excellent backup drive for the price. Works well.
5|Very nice external hard drive, second one i purchase, this one for a friend, will recommend.
5|It is very small and portable, easy to work with and durable.
5|It's small and compact. Better than those WD hd...
5|I was so happy to find an external hard drive that could switch back and forth from a PC to a Mac. It made switching from PC to Mac a much easier process and the device is SOOOOO easy to use.
5|I'm so glad I was referred to this slim back up drive. It is awesome and comes with a software for storage within.
5|Love the new phone, the battery life is excellent. The wait in the store for assistance was kind of long.
5|Tho is my third Seagate and won't be my last. Reliable, user friendly, great price
5|I got this so I can use it on Mac and Windows and it works wonders on both! This product is awesome.
3|This works well with a laptop. The interface is simple and user friendly. I'm satisfied with this purchase.
5|Awesome little drive. Quiet and gives the xbox one additional storage. Good investment if your looking to expand your storage.
5|Lots of space for photos and important files- all kept in my fire safe just in case of some huge problem with fire or other calamity.
5|I love it! I store everything on it and have lots of room for more movies, picture documents everything..... I recommend it to my neighbor and they purchased one.
5|I have been using Seagate drives for a long time and this new backup drive will be added to them. Can fit a lot of stuff in a small package.
5|This charger is great for travel. It is slim and lightweight and easily fits in my pocket.
5|Great Product, easy to use, would def. recommend to anyone.
5|This Seagate Backup is great. Its' small, fast and works great right out of the box. Definitely would recommend.
4|We bought this to do exactly what it is advertised for. We use it to backup photos, videos, and music from our laptop. The USB 3.0 speeds are fast enough to transfer data across at a decent pace and the portability is exactly what we needed.
4|Happy with this product. It is small and compact, and delivers evrything required. Would recommend.
4|Have not had any problems so far. Works as I expected it should
5|Works great, slim, fits in my pocket, very easy to use.
5|Great size and served purpose I needed. Also good value for money.
5|Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black is great product for baking up the data. The most important feature I like is direct connectivity to mobile devices and cloud backup.
4|Very easy to read prompts and set up for transferring files.
5|Great back up. Super easy !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
5|It was for sale at a great value for the size of the drive.
5|I purchased this back-up for photo storage and it will hold all my current photos and photos going back a number of years.
5|Lightweight and meets all of my travel storage needs
4|This is a good product and before you buy this I advise that you fully understand the difference between a back up and an external hard drive. If I read more carefully I would have went for the latter..I am not too fond of this product but I do recommend it for people who are looking for a good back up device.
5|Got this to transfer data from my old pc to my new. Did it's job and have plenty of space left to use.
5|This is my 2nd Seagate external harddrive. I love compact, the quality and the ease of use for this product. The price is also what drew me to this external harddrive.
5|This is a good storage solution that is easy to carry and requires no power device. It is so easy to forget or lose the power supply.
5|This is a very useful tool for a safe place to put our work.
5|Installed easily and is fast on USB 3.0. Good Drive.
5|This. product was very easy to use. The instructions were intuitive. Anyone can do it.
4|Unlike some other portable drives, it doesn't make grinding noises as it is starting up. Could be a bit faster, though.
4|Simple and just does what it says. Easy to hook up and use. Good price.
5|I use this additional backup to my online backup. Easy to use, easy to store. So far it's been exactly what I needed.
5|Excellent features love that you control it from my iPhone
5|Light, portable, solid, easy to use backup. Huge space to hold all files. I take a backup with me whenever we leave for an extended period, in case desktop gets stolen. Great to have all file accessible.
5|This seems to be a very good product. It did what it was suppose to do with no problems. Easy to set up dashboard. Price was right. I think I will buy me another one.
5|I put it on my Xboxone for additional memory, ready to hook up and worked great.
5|Purchased as a backup drive and it's working great.
5|This hard drive replaced a western digital not too old and is way faster, at least that's what Crystal Mark said. Very Pleased with the purchased and price is fair.
5|used to store photos. works fine. no problems. easy to set up.
5|this was a great experience using this. It worked very well.
5|I purchased this while I was in a pinch. I needed an external for backup photos and memory for my SSD laptop. This was affordable and I could use it for either Mac or PC. I recommend this to everyone.
4|I was very pleased with this hard drive. Great hard drive for Mac users.
5|This is our second Seagate purchase - we were not disappointed again!
5|Very useful for backing up data on laptops or even desktop computers. Fast and reliable.
4|The setup process was very easy. I was able to move my iTunes to drive but have not moved it to my new computer yet. I am still figuring out to use to my advantage but so far so good. It is very small, easily portable, which I love. It makes it easier to take with me. Plus I can access via an app on my iPhone.
5|Its awesome and compact which is great for music!!
4|Good design. Priced right. I would recommend to anyone.
5|works great! this was a good choice for what we needed it for
5|Have used other back-up's and always go back to Seagate.
5|Very easy to use and small size is ideal for portability.
5|I would definitely recommend this product to a friend
5|This portable drive has worked out great and is slim enough to carry with you.
5|Fast, slim and reliable. Best portable drive for the money.
4|I am using this unit on my pogoplug cloud back up and thus far have had no issues with it.
4|This hard drive gets the job done. More than plenty of space for a great price. Hooks up easily to my computer and I can transfer files quickly. Great purchase.
5|Great size and price...much faster than the older bulkier models, will buy another.
4|Works as advertised. Since this model is the slower version, it could be cheaper
5|ive always loved to collect things that's happened in my era, Seagate has been very reliable, able to keep thousands of photos, tons of video, upgrading was a must.. Still very impressed, still reliable, and still EASY to use.
5|Fits in the pocket. Light weight and comfortable to carry. Love this product. Arrived on time. Will definitely recommend this purchase.
4|I have no complaints. I don't have that much data, but the Apple store suggested I back up my data before updating the iOS.
5|Love it! Plug it in and it backups your computer right away! Would not be without it now. Great way to keep backing up your computers!
4|Data transfer is quick, and the device almost fits into the palm of your hand.
4|I ended up at the Apple store to find out why I was having difficulty connecting the Seagate hard drive. The tech had to change from internal settings in order for the computer and hard drive to communicate. Once that was fixed, I had no problem connecting the hard drive to the computer for back ups.
4|perfect for quick back ups, and very portable, price was great
5|I have a bunch of these drives for video editing. They are small but still USB 3 so pretty fast although for HD playback they aren't as good as AC powered drives. But cheap to send in the mail and with Seagate software works the same on PC or Macs, unlike G-Tech drives which can only read/write to one or the other but not both from same drive.
5|Easy enough for a novice to use. Would highly recommend this.
5|I used this product to back up 4 of my computers. Just download the backup program from the drive and follow the easy instructions
4|This the cheapest drive available for 1TB. It works perfect, looks sleek and nice. The perfect solution for extra space and to back up all your important files for that "Just in case your computer crashes," moment.
4|This the cheapest drive available for 1TB. It works perfect, looks sleek and nice. The perfect solution for extra space and to back up all your important files for that "Just in case your computer crashes," moment.
5|compact and portable, easy to use - perfect for college student in tight quarters and always on the go.
3|I had to buy external hard-drive to back up photos and important documents from clouds etc. but since my past hard-drive broke and now has 10 years worth of memories.. and it´s super expensive to recover those files.. I´m iffy about external hard-drives these days. Hopefully I won´t lose another 10 years´ worth of memories. Hopefully this proes me wrong.
5|Perfect for individual storage. Great for traveling.
4|A compact external storage device that's very reasonably priced, easily fits in your pocket, can be accessed on any computer, and is rugged.
5|I purchased this unit to expand the memory of my Xbox one and I love the fact that it tucks away behind and never have to worry about it after it was formated.
5|Set up was easy. Installation was completed in just about 30 minutes.
5|Fast, large and easy to use...If you are looking for a external hard drive, look no farther.
5|The Seagate Backup Slim Plus is a great backup portable drive. It's easy to use and take up minimal space.
5|Love this device. This is a very, good and reasonable price device,
5|plug in and start saving files.works like a hard drive should.
5|I am soooo glad I got this external hardrive to keep things off my laptop (which has limited space). It is much easier to use than I expected. Much worth the $$ I paid for it!
5|Drive is small and compact for carrying between work and home. Lots of storage in a small package. USB for quick data transfer. Use to backup large photo files.
5|This was a gift to a friend. He loves it. Back up was easy, quick and fast. Take out of box ready.
4|We git this to put our pictures on incase computer crashed. Found out I could store alot more of our things that we don't want lost. There is a whole lot of space.
5|This is by the best bang for your buck. Not only is the transfer fast, the software you get gives you a free upgrade to pro. The encryption is a great feature as well and the thing works flawless!
5|So far so good. Its fast and it loads very quickly after being plugged into a computer.
5|The 1TB external Seagate drive is the perfect companion for incremental backups of your laptop or smartphone. Setup is super easy, and the Seagate dashboard is well configured to make file selection a breeze.
5|Recommend works great for saving my info on my Mac
4|Easy to use and much smaller than some of those book-sized items that you can get.
5|The Seagate - Backup Plus is sleek, quiet and ideal for portability.
5|Compact, easy to use with automatic backup feature. Easy to disconnect and take with you.
4|Bought this for my daughter who was using my lap top to down load pictures from her camera. She loves it for her pictures and school files. Great product for saving space on computer hard drives.
5|I purchased this drive to store virtual machines on. The drive is fast enough for me to use it as the perfect host for virtual systems thanks to the usb 3 support. No issues.
5|this hardware works very nicely in the background while my laptop works in the foreground.I can feel confident that my information is being backed up and being safe in case something were to happen to my laptop
5|This Seagate USB hard drive is very compact and is extremely user friendly.
5|This was a gift for my mother and we uploaded movies for her to enjoy. I would recomend it to anyone that's on the go or just needs saint hung backed up
5|Directions are easy to follow. I would recommend to anyone.
5|Small, sleek design. Plenty of storage. Plug in &amp;amp; use. Good price
5|This worked great for what I needed to use it for. Easy to use ..just plugged it in.
5|Easy to use and very compact! Fulfilled all of my storage needs and tons of space left over!
5|I needed a reliable back-up external hard drive for music, gopro videos, and photo albums. A terabyte seems like a lot, and it is but at least now I can save everything and not worry about hard drive space. It was so easy to install, just plug-n-play and then drag and drop. I enjoyed it so much that I just purchased a second one.
5|I bought the drive to back-up my photos. Works great and fast, good soft ware with the drive
5|I purchased this to add more hard drive space to my xbox one. works perfect with it and was easy to set up
4|Great storage space, convenient to fit in carrying case
5|Easy to set up, easy to use, perfect size for my on the go needs.
5|Easy set up and easy to use. Compact for convenient storage or desktop use.
5|Good product, well worth the money to back up my photos.
4|This drive was easy to setup and use. Also it is portable and takes very little space.
5|This is my second identical purchase.I use the continuous backup feature and have had no issues.
5|Mainly bought the external hard drive to store things from my computer that I would be afraid wouldn't get backed up properly if the system were to crash. Works incredibly well. No complaints.
5|First time I bought an external drive. Easy to use and fulfills all my needs.
4|The right price fir a a great product plus sale associate was great help . I was in and out in under 20 minutes.
5|This product was extremely easy to use, I just plugged it in, ran a backup and it worked perfectly the first time.
5|Swag are has always made great products. I bought this as an expansion hard drive for my Xbox One and it works great. The only regret I have is not buying a bigger one
5|This is an awesome portable drive. It is very quiet during operation and the USB 3.0 makes it much faster than any other external HDD that I own. I have had bad experiences with other portable drives in this price range, but this drive has operated flawlessly. I have recommended this drive to friends and have bought a second drive myself!
5|great for backing up photos/ music etc. easy set up
4|Ps im not happy with your return policy I bought a lot of electronics in the past with you and now they put me on a 90 day no returns.
4|instructions were straight forward, found it easy to use!
5|Bought this to backup my pictures from my laptop. Was extremely easy to use and I definitely recommend it if you are looking to back up your pics.
4|Great external hard drive but a little difficult to set up.
4|Easy to use and carry with you. Light and compact doesn't have the option to pull data from wifi though. But for the price can't beat it.
5|I just backed up 200G of music and photos. It worked like a charm!!! I keep it at work incase anything happens to my computer at home.
5|Compact with great storage. Not bulky like some so its easy to transport. Great for backing up videos and pictures. Reasonably priced.
1|Doesn't adapt to cable box like I was told it would need to purchase extra products still sitting in the box
3|WORKS COOL GOOD BACK UP STORAGE DVR COMPUTER WHATEVER FAIR PRICE AND POINTS
5|This hard drive works perfectly with my computer. It will also work with my gaming systems.
5|I bought this to gift to my dad to store all his music and it works great! Not hard to use and the size makes it easy to carry.
5|Great product load up time very fast files usb connection Got item as Christmas gift If you wanna back up any files /movies/music etc, This is it great brand and great design fits In your pocket on the go for home or work for all your needs a must have item ,saving photos back up with goggle or Apple iOS app Special when certain phones only have so much memory drop box to devise 5stars Review
5|The item i bought is great. I am able to store so much
5|and it works perfectly. Adds the perfect amount of space for a good price!
5|Needed to backup an old computer before we junked it. This was the perfect option to do so. Just plugged it in and a couple clicks later I was backed up and the computer was out the door to be recycled.
5|Nice sleek design. I could fit it in my pocket, if need be. I'm using this as a backup drive for my main PC. Work well if i need to swap it over to my laptop. Data transfer is fast. Lots of space to use. Good drive for the price. I would recommend the Seagate 1TB.
5|It's great to finally have all my music and movies off my computers hard drive to help it run better!
5|I really didn't intend to buy this product, but coz I'm more of a techy thing I want my data to be stored and protected.
5|I bought this for a company event where I needed a way to store large data flies and transport them from one location to another. This hard drive was perfect for this purpose. Compact and a good price, that's all I was asking for
5|You get a lot of storage for a affordable price. Great for Mac or Windows, just need to format it, which is pretty easy.
5|i would recomend this drive to all. easy set up just plug it in
4|Easy to travel with and very compact. Its also very easy to use.
5|Needed drive to back up older system before upgrading. Useful not to have to have external power connection. Works as advertised on USB connection.
5|i purchased a second as a gift. It is easy to use to backup my desktop and the gift was for a laptop.
4|Very nice looking, the only thing that kept me from giving it 5 stars is instructions, they are not very noobie friendly.
5|Works seamlessly with my windows 7. Easy to install and use.
4|This is a simple to use and very affordable backup option. I keep it on my desk and at the push of a button back up my entire laptop contents each week in a matter of minutes. I am happy with this product.
4|Our first external hard drive; very efficient device.
4|Bought this to transfer files from desktop to laptop. USB 3.0 is decently fast for the amount I had to transfer. Better bet would have been to order a 2 tb offline for a few bucks more. It's super slim which I like and would recommend to anyone.
5|Simple, practical and functional this external HD is a great choice of you want to travel light on weight and yet heavy on data
4|This external hard drive works great, transfers fast, and is excellent for the price
4|This compact hard drive was a great investment for the price.
5|Good awesome product. I think its pretty good price
5|The drive set-up and operation was simple and it worked just as it should.
5|Small, thin, lightweight - perfect for portability. 1TB portable backup at a great price.
4|Easy to use, basically plug and play. Copied contents of 3 usb drives and backed up contents of laptop and still plenty of room left. Small and compact to fit in laptop bag.
4|Great Hard drive just what i needed. Easy setup and use
5|Nice slimline design. Easy to use. Large storage capacity. I would recommend this item for anyone looking for a backup system for their laptop.
5|I use this to store files etc. for my Surface Pro and it works great
5|Very intuitive, easy set up, no issues at all. Had to replace an old one that met a tile floor from 4' up. Don't recommend that move for any piece of hardware!
5|great product, easy to use, great price Would really recommend
4|This router was a replacement for an old DLink. We bought a Linksys first and got so frustrated trying to set it up that we returned it and bought the Netgear. Easy and quick to set up and works flawlessly. Don't waste time on the other brands just go right to Netgear.
5|Got this for my mother for Christmas and she is very happy with it.
5|I got this to be able to store pictures and loveit
5|Great amount of storage for music especially for the price . Also like the size
4|I'm on the go all the time at school and this is the perfect tool to backup my projects
5|Its a backup hard drive so there's not much to say. Holds all my stuff well?
5|Very easy to use and navigate to your files once loaded.
4|Lots of storage space - great for backing up my catalog of pictures. Easy to use, very portable.
4|This is a great product- met my expectations exactly. The only thing I'm disappointed in is the inability to password protect folders or the hard drive itself.
4|This portable harddrive is good&amp;amp; simple to use ..I love it
5|Very user friendly. Able to backup pc, mobile, or tablet. Backs up files very fast.
3|This hard drive is wonderfully average...not great, not terrible...it's just a hard drive. yippie.
5|This was the most inexpensive external drive I've purchased.
3|I'm still figuring this device out. For example, I thought I had it set to backup periodically on its own, but that does not seem to be the case. However, it is reassuring to have it, and it holds a LOT of data.
4|I've had it for about a month with no issues. Love having the extra storage space. Very minimal when it comes to size.
5|Not only easy to use but easy to set up and get going. Well worth the money.
5|Great counter service at location. Friendly, and organized. Text to phone when available for pick up was convenient.
5|This hard drive is perfect for what I'm using it for. I'm using it to backup my PC.
5|small, compact size. works reat for backup and as extra storage too.
5|I bought this for my new Lenovo Yoga which does not have a big hard drive. Loaded all my pictures &amp;amp; music.
2|Bought the 1 TB and it said I had 31 gigs when I plugged it in.
4|It has been great for my son who is in the military
5|Easy set up and so far it works great. The mobile back up seems to be slow but I don't really need it
5|Bought this because I was tired of my clunky externals. This is small, compact, and works perfectly, just like all my other Seagate hard drives. Easy to set up and lightweight enough to store and carry around.
3|Overall it is a very handy device but its instruction paperwork leave very little to be desired.
5|I would recommend this to anyone who wants to store a lot of movies or pictures.
5|I have 4 of these, I bought this one for a gift, they work great, I have them for PC and MAC.
5|Reliable, compact size, easy to use. Good price. Great storage.
5|Husbands computer ran slow b/c of family videos and pictures, this solved the problem beautifully.
1|Do not buy this product. The software and associated backup features are poorly designed and do not work. I purchased this hard drive to backup my mobile devices via wifi through my network at home. After viewing the tutorials and reading the related FAQs I still wasn't able to perform a backup. I was never able to log into the Dashboard even though I was entering the correct password. Returning it back to the store. Junk!!!
5|This device is awesome because u can use it with pc or mac the thing i like the most about it is that its fast eficient and easy to carry cause it weighs close to nothing also u can browse all ur pics videos music etc at ease i would highly recomend the seagate backup plus 1 tb slim its absolutely awesome
5|I needed to backup files from an old computer and clean off another computer. Backing up went quickly, even when backing up photos. Tech support answered my questions quickly.
4|Although compact in size, we have been able to store a lot of photos on this external hard drive, thus freeing up needed space on my wife's laptop.
5|I have 3 TB and my mom was so impressed that I bought her one, too. But she jus needs a 1 TB.
5|Easy to install. Works great. Easy to transport and reinstall.
5|Pretty awesome that a 1TB drive is so small and can hold so much data in it. Love all of Seagate's products.
5|I just installed this backup drive last night. It was super easy to install and the first backup worked perfectly. I'm using continuous backup and, so far, haven't noticed any reduction in speed of being able to access email and other programs. I have two of these drives and will trade them off every month.
4|Like the backup feature. Lots of storage for a decent price. I am not sure I have it set up correctly so won't be giving 5 stars. Someone with more technical knowledge then I have won't have any problems. I did get it to back up my files but takes all day, not sure if this is normal or not. If you don't have a lot of technical knowledge you still will be able to easily back up your files manually.
5|Bought this as a gift and they love it. Has been very helpful and takes up almost no space.
5|Great portable hard drive to backup data on my laptop. Easy to use and very slim.
5|Very satisfied with the drive. Much easier and faster than imagined it would be.
5|Compact, easy to use, set up in minutes. Fast back up.
5|It was exactly as described and priced well. I recommend it!
5|This product performs perfecctly for my needs. I back up all my photos on external hard drives. It is small and very portable which makes it perfect to travel with me on vacations. This way I have all my photos backed up in case something happens to my laptop. My best external hard drive yet. This is my secong Seagate. My first one is still dependable and is my 1st backup for my photos.
5|Attached drive to a XBox 1 to add disk space, the drive works great. Good price for 1 TB of storage.
5|Easy to use; instructions are good. Holds a lot of data and allowed back up of laptop.
5|Easy to install and operate. Works great as a back up.
4|Slim design and lots of space attracted me to the product but the price was the best!! It will hold ALOT of pictures and videos and is convenient in size!! Worth it for sure!
5|This is a wonderful backup for our computer. Glad we bought it.
5|Needed a External that was both compatible with Mac and pc and I cant comain, it's slim and does exactly what I need it to do withou any issues
5|My old external hard drive is too big and bulky and required me to be near an electrical outlet. I love how slim this item is and that it has an external power source. This item will come in handy keeping my documents safe and backed up incase something happens to my computer.
5|Great for backing up and on the go, and easy to keep up with files for easy sharing and moving without your computer u can plug in anywhere
5|I have numerous of these at home and have bought several for gifts. I love the ease of use and how small they are. I use them to store and organize my pictures as well as for business purposes. They are absolutely wonderful!
5|Perfect. I would recommend. Easy to use and setup.
5|Needed a way to backup the games on our WiiU and this is perfect!!!
5|Excellent Hard Drive I am quite pleased with this product and have always been pleased with all Seagate products
3|It is a good storage media. It works with equal convenience on Windows and iOS.
5|I like this product very much. It is easy to use and works great!
4|Good performance so far. I needed it for backup of my work files.
4|As usual another solid product from Seagate. Well priced, works great!
5|Works good and cleans out my laptop from all my pictures
5|This is a great option in case you need to do a back up of your information. I really liked the option of Make automatically a back up of my laptop. I was amazing.
4|Bought this drive to transfer files from an office computer to a home computer. I would have given it five stars, but it took me a while to figure out how to configure it for use as a portable drive instead of a backup drive. This may have just been my ignorance though. Otherwise, once I figured out what i was doing, this drive has worked well and met my needs.
5|I have used Seagate portable hard drives to backup my files for the past few years and they work great.
5|like it better than wb storage. it is slim and easy to carry
5|Awesome Drive. I love Seagate drives and this one is light and a beast. I am a mobile professional and it is a great addition to my Surface and the USB 3.0 is perfect.
4|I would recommend this product to friends and family because they vas download ad save files and digital items on this product.
5|very happy knowing my photos are safe and available when I want. Hope it will be there for me in the years to come. Overall, as far as I know now it is a great product at a reasonable price.
5|This was a great purchase! Easy to setup and use right out of the box!
4|I like the portable hard disk but I thought it would automatically move my information from my old laptop to my new one. I have seen some that does that.
5|This was the easiest backup I have ever done! Made life easy.
4|I will never have to worry about storage again with this little box... I don't know If it's just me, but I can't navigate the content like you can with a USB flash drive... I'll have to explore more
5|Easy to use, good price, and plenty of storage space
5|It is so fast to move data. And also has program instaling to yourself pc outomaticly. This unit working with windows and apple. It is look so nice.
4|Works as expected. Wish it worked with my Mac, though.
4|Portable hard drive is compact and easy to fit in a small bag so that you can share photos and genealogy files with relatives or friends.
5|I bought this to use as a backup for my computer and for school and it is working our perfectly for all that i need. I would recommend it to people because it is affordable for the price as well.
5|It's was a gift Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
5|Very happy with this product. It does everything I need it to do. Very small and portable.
4|SLIM, GREAT LOOKING AND VALUE, PRETTY FAST AND EASY TO USE
5|Easy to install and use!! I use it mainly to store pictures.
5|I haven't tried the included software yet, but using the drive as a simple storage device works great! Great for storing backup files and images.
5|Does exactly what it's supposed to great product and a great price
5|This external hard drive is easy to use. I am not a computer geek and probably never will be. This was easy to set up and start transferring files. My old laptop didn't have any space left on it so I transferred files and deleted from computer so it would work. Great purchase.
4|this is a good product at a good price, can back up all our stuff on one device
5|This works great for backing up data on both my laptop and smartphone. Just plug it in and it does all the work for me after the initial setup.
5|Slim and working great good file transfer speed.......................................................................................::
4|Easy to use very convenient. I can install my big filez. I can carry with me instead of my computer.
5|Needed a backup for my computer, the associates recommended this one and im glad they did, its super easy to use and reliable
5|Extremely easy to use. Plugged it into a USB port, loaded the program, and backed up my computer. Secondly, I loaded a quick app on my phone and backed up all my pics and videos.
4|I travel often for work and the slim frame of this hard drive lends itself to work on the go. So far it's working well. I can't say I'd give it an 'excellent' rating based on the fact that it just does one thing, backs up my computer. Otherwise, good product for a great price.
5|Bought this to use with the Mac Mini I bought for my wife. Great purchase, great small backup device to use with apple backup.
5|It works really and it's so easy to back up information to it
5|Hard Drive is quiet and smooth! Very impressed with storage!
5|If portability is what you are looking for to provide extra data storage, this unit is it. Oh, and it also lets you back up content from social networks. Great little unit with plenty of storage.
3|Great storage item for the Macbook - and doesn't weigh you down
5|The Seagate slim storage device is tiny but holds a lot of information. It does not require a power cord, i.e. mine is powered off of the router to which it is connected. It comes with ReadyShare Vault software, a file backup program which is awesome. Once set up it automatically backs up several computers off of my local network and provides access to the date anywhere on my network.
5|I needed to back up my pictures from my laptop hard drive &amp;amp; this does a great job.
5|Works heat easy set up it really is a plug and play. Program how often you want to back things up its that easy.
5|Good backup unit for the price. Need to download software to us with a Mac but that was quick and easy.
5|Excellent... Mind blowing ... Superb... Fantastic....marvelous...stores everything
5|The USB hdd was well worth the money. It is small and with 3.0 I/f makes it lightning fast. I would definitely recommend this drive
5|I love it! I am notnvery tech savy so I was not sure what to get. I ended up getting this and its great. No problems and has lots of memory. Slim so it doesnt take up much space. Worth the money!
2|I am on my second external drive, and am really disappointed that this is the 2nd time in 2 years that the drive just stopped working. No computer would recognize it, and support couldn't help. Use it for my MAC TimeMachine backups. Warranty great on this, and Seagate exchanged for replacement, but would rather have it work all the time. In the past, Seagate has NEVER disappointed me.
5|This drive has made me very happy. It has already proven my Western Digital to be far more reliable. I prefer the housing it is in as well, compared to the plastic the WD was in.
5|Product did everything I needed it to do and is great for storage and back up.
5|This hardrive is so portable and so small that it fits in my jacket which I love. Its a good brand that I got for a awesome price. I am very happy with this purchase.
5|It doesn't get any easier. Works as advertised. Plug it in and you're off an running. 1 TB for a great price.
5|Easy to use (I am not computer savvy), small and portable. Very happy with this product. Was going to get just a jump drive but was recommended this, have not been pleased with externals in the past so was hesitant, but am very happy with the purchase.
5|Bought it for the sole purpose of use with the Wii u. You will need to buy a y cable but other than that works great! Small unobtrusive and so far very reliable.
4|The only problem in this product, I believe, is in the saved file design in the back-up software. I spoke to the Seagate customer support about it. The old Seagate software for back-ups saved the Computers standing file structure in a single file with deleted files from past saves in history files. The new one adds the changes in hew files so there is no actual mirror of your computer files for referencing but a search of many files by the news software method of back up to find a single file that was lost or changed accidentally is required. That is my viewpoint on the file save design. The software and drive so far works fine otherwise. I imagine it will, for a long time, as all my old Seagate drives still work well. In addition, the old software does not work on the new windows computers while the new Seagate back-up software requires the purchase of a new drive for add on drives to be properly recognized. On the positive side, new drives like this are miniscule in size compared to older drives with the same capacity.
5|The hard drive performs exactly as it should. I'm very pleased with my purchase.
5|One portable terabit to use as backup storage!! I would say considering how large the physical size of the hard drive, it is a lot of space you can use for storage compare to some of by other storage drives.
4|Great price and plenty of storage. Works great with my Lenovo
5|This was exactly what my granddaughter wanted for Christmas. She was thrilled.
1|easier to set up and the usb was a nice way to hook it and no 110 power made it more easier
5|Purchased this as a present for my son. Setup was was easy and we easily transferred files between his PC and my Mac.
5|I bought this hard drive because I store a ton of pictures and music on my computer. I'm always afraid that my computer will crash and I'll lose every memory I've ever taken. This hard drive has a back up program that let's me stay worry free. It even backs up your photos from social media and you can link your phone to it also. Perfect backup tool.
5|Easy to use. Small. Holds all the information you need.
5|The external hard drive is just what I needed. I keeps my computer moving quickly since I do not need to store all my information on the computer hard drive. I bought it on sale so the price was right also.
4|I don't know how well the drive works but my son was happy to get it for Christmas.
4|This drive work very well. I like the slim design.
5|I needed a reliable portable drive for my work. It can easily be used between my Mac and Windows pc without complications. Elegant design too.
5|This was purchased for a family member in college who needed a drive to store all her school work. This was a great price for all the space.
5|use this drive for storage of files on 2=1 tablet because such small drive on tablet.
5|This is a prety slim &amp;amp; sleek ext drive for storing 1TB...its portable so can be carried easily in laptop bag. I bought this on Cyber Monday after Thxgiving so the price was even more amazing!!!
4|Bought it as a gift for a person with little computer skills. She is having a tough time navigating through the programs to set up the computer.
5|Is good and improve my laptop after pass all my information to this
5|Great price to backup all my documents with plenty of storage space. Bought a case off amazon to store it in an fits perfectly
5|Comes with backup software that automatically keeps track of any changes that I make to my desktop computer. Completely automatic and very accurate (I've checked it). Very quiet and does not take up precious desk top room (smaller than my cell phone). Very good product for the price.
2|It backs up but hard to see what is backed up for selective recovery
5|I did have an issue getting it to download the drivers, but it worked after a couple of tries. Must have been my missing something. But, backs up my laptop every week.
5|This drive was fast and easy to do a backup. as it should be.
5|This drive all around deserves the 5 star review. I have only had this for a few days and already it is obviously a winner. First let me start off with the price. With the sale price being 70$ this is an unbeatable deal for 1TB of this quality. This drive is super fast and plenty spacious. I especially recommend this if you have a Mac as it plays very nicely with Time Machine. Being in music and YouTube I need a lot of space that has a good read speed as I will playing music at gigs directly from this drive, and let me say that this preforms with plenty of speed for me. After my testing this is truly an amazing PORTABLE drive.
3|not many instructions included with the product, so I just plugged it in and went from there. It's hard to tell if it works since you can't see if there's anything there or not. But my son, who recommended this product for me, says it's working fine. So I guess it's ok, as far as I can tell.
4|It is a very good device to transfer files from your Windows PC to Mac Book.
5|This product was easy to use. Plug it in, push a button or two and it did all the work. It was somewhat fast and stored all the information. It is nice and slim so it does not take much space to store it.
5|All this space allows me to store so much items. I can just transport it to this, and still have so much space on my computer. Great invention.
5|Excellent for backup use for photos, videos, documents. Best of all is the size. Easy to take with you, would recommend a hard case for it if you are traveling (purchase separately). Comes with USB cable so you are good to go!
5|Easy. Simple. Fast. Just hook it up and "Voila!" Instant storage!
5|even I can use it! duh. being the all time computer dummy this was easy for me..............
5|Very easy to use. Simple to plug in and ready to go. Highly recommend.
4|It works well to back up information. A litte confusing to use though. It would be better with instructions of some kind.
5|This is the third one I've picked up for the family. Bought the first one over a year ago to use as a backup drive for my desktop. Picked up a second one a while back for my wife's laptop. This third one picked up to use as a NAS, plugged into a Netgear wireless router for streaming my music collection to a network audio player, and it has been doing the job without issues. Used it the other day to copy my music collection to new desktop, and was able to move over around 250 GB of data in something like 45 minutes via USB 3.0 connection. Highly recommended.
4|I've been contemplating this purchase for some time and I believe I got the best value.
5|This hard drive was easy to install on my Mac desktop. It synced up to my time machine, and now all of my info is encrypted on a 1 TB super slim hard drive
5|Cheep and easy backup/storage.Does what I need.It will work for you.
5|Holds enough for my 3 computers. Easy to download and put all my information and items on it. For the price 1TB was total worth it.
5|Backed up my Windows 8.1 system using Acronis True Image
5|great product for the job and i would totally buy it again
5|This thing is idiot proof. It's as easy as clicking a button and it pulls all the files you'd want and more over. It took a few hours on my old desk top, but if you're not in a hurry, it's no big deal. Very happy with this purchase.
5|I have always had great luck with Seagate Drives and so far this one has been no different.
5|easy to use. Been wanting to get these for a while. Feel files are safer now that I have control of where files pictures are saved.
5|Always a reliable item.Life saver for people who crash their system regularly.
5|Very easy to use and back up my content of files, pictures etc. Plenty of storage for what I need.
5|This external drive is great. Tons of room for all of the documents and pictures that I have.
5|For someone who is frequently traveling and works off a laptop often this external drive is perfect. It's light/ small easy to carry around. Haven't had issues with it and it pretty easy to operate.
5|This product was easy to use. It looks nice and travels well.
5|My Seagate 1 TB external hard drive works great. Took all my videos and music off my laptop. Now I have plenty of room on my laptop, plus still have a lot of room on the Seagate too.
4|Product works exactly as described by manufacturer.... no issues at all
4|I have had other external storage devices, but I never had enough space to back up all my personal files. The Seagate external storage 1TB allows me to back up all my files.
4|Purchased because I was running out of backup memory. I have 2 smaller Seagate external drives dedicated to family pictures and my weekly sysytem backup capacity needed expansion. This drive handles it nicely. No installation issues.
5|Excellent option for portable storage. Plenty of storage space in a great compact size.
4|I bought this for my wife. she is very happy with it. great value for the price
5|The hard drive is very fast for transferring files from the computer to the hard drive. No problems at all since I bought and using it everyday.
5|So far, so good with this product. User friendly. Easy to back up and transfer data. I've used Seagate before, and would recommend it again.
5|External drive was easy to connect snd has a lot of storage. I used it to back up two computers and it had plenty of space. The drive csn be used to backup up both windows operating systems and on Apple macs. Plan on using the backup to transfer to a new Mac.
5|The Seagate was fast and easy to us....... Backed up my hard drive very quickly and now I know I have all my information safely stored!
5|This is an excellent portable hard-drive. I use it to back up my MacBook Pro laptop computer once a week. It's simple and easy to sync with my time machine. Wish the USB connecting cord was longer.
4|The drive is versatile in its portability and ample size to store a lot of documents including all different media types. Seagate makes solid and reliable drives.
4|This drive travels with me everywhere because it's so small and light. But still moves files around in a jiffy.
1|I hadn't have this drive not even 3 months, plugged it in, and it gave me an I/O error as well as parameter errors. I can't believe how soon it crashed. Lost all of my files, and way beyond mad &amp;gt;:-o !!
5|This product is easy to use and at a great price. I would totally recommend this product.
5|I always used Seagate for my internal drives, and their slim drive has performed well up to expectation. The longer you have it, the more useful you find it can be,
5|I USED TO WORK AT SEAGATE. TOP NOTCH PRODUCT, AS EXPECTED!
5|After the initial backup of my computer which took quite a few hours (I have a lot on my computer) it is so easy to have the computer update the new changes through using the straigthforwardly designed dashboard . With its storage capacity I am set. It does draw down on RAM when its operating so I dont leave it on all the time. Newer computers should be fine.
5|This is a great a great product and small that does not take up a lot of space.
4|Purchased this external HD so that I could back up files on my PC's HD. I have many photographs, for work, on this HD and losing anything would be catastrophic. This works well and is as easy to use as plug and play.
4|Purchased the 1TB HDD to backup an aging laptop running MS Vista. Seagate Dashboard software kept locking up without performing a successful backup. Contacted Seagate Customer Service and received a quick response within 48 hrs that identified settings that needed to be changed to remedy the issue.
4|This is the 2nd similar item i purchased with no issues at all.
4|As a storage device, there is no real performance questions. It does what it is suppose to and is priced well.
5|With this hard drive you don't need another. It holds everything you have and more.
5|I easily download to the hard drive and it saves all my work with no problem.
3|I was a bit mixed up since My Documents really resides in User Documents. Changes were made in User Documents and in my confusion I wiped out much of what I wanted to save. I think this two tiered system can cause confusion. A simple wite and rewrite system would work butter for most folks.
5|I have been looking for extra storage for my MAC and PC and this hard drive does it for me. It is light weight and small enough for my briefcase. I recommend it to anyone.
5|This is good product. I bought two of them because it's awesome to have two of such good product.
5|This is a very excellent, reliable product and has served us very well.
1|Print/online instructions useless, didn''t work and I plan to return. Never properly installed or backed up laptop. Very disappointed with level of support received.
5|By the numbers Fast transfers good boot up nice size good weight
4|So small and efficient I like it, great for traveling add it doesn't just up a lot of space so I have music photos and movies on mine it's great
5|We bought two of these, one for each of our Mac Airs. We loved the small size and the huge amount of storage. Setup was easy and in no time we had all our pictures on our new drives. My wife also put all our digital movies on her drive so they can easily travel with us without taking up a lots of suitcase space.
5|a fine backup with slim chic figure and efficient operation. Definitely would do it all over again
5|Easy accessibility and great formatting and organization tools available.
4|Rapidly transfers my files for backup. I could not get the restore function to work properly when needed but since the drive had sufficient space for a conventional copy of my old records things went well.
1|Mac format by Geek was required. Any file saved to it locks and can not be opened. Duh. Expensive counterproductive time waste.
4|Fast enough for those with 3.0 capability on their devices. No reason to not like it.
5|This external hard drive is extremely easy to use!
4|It works well and saves the data like its supposed to.
5|It exceeded my expectations and for the money was a great buy!
5|Looking for a HDD 1TB or more that could be plugged in without the use of an external power cord and this one hit the mark.
5|I purchased this portable hard drive to back up all of my family photos and videos. The hard drive was reasonably priced and the peace of mind is priceless!
5|I love it, it was very easy to use. The price wasn't too bad for what I got. It is just what I needed.
5|This external HD is great. Sleek and compact and works like a charm!
5|I use this hard drive regularly at an IT Help Desk, having it partitioned into 2 halves, one for PC, one for Mac. I am constantly writing to both, and deleting files/folders as I do file backups before performing computer repairs for clients. This is a durable, fast, great-value product. Get one.
5|I like it because it's sleek and light and it's also very fast
5|Easy to use and install on computer (Windows 8)!!!
5|Just installed the tv today...so far, so good. Good picture, easy to set up.
4|It is hard to find a good hard drives as they are all similar. What drew my attention to this was its affordable price given the amount of memory. Once purchased, it was easy plug and play and have backed-up my data with ease.
4|I am in the process of changing computers, I didn't want to lose my files from the old computer. I just plugged it in and started dragging things over. It was that easy! All of my pictures and files went over with no problems.
5|It is a simple way to back up your computer to save all if your important informationunformatiin
5|This is a great external hard drive, easy to use and very reliable
5|This item is easy to use, has great storage and it's compact.
5|this portable hard drive was bought for my son in college
5|This is a great price for a hard drive of this size.
5|Even though my MacBook is an older version this still backed up what I needed!!
4|Easy to use esp. for someone not great with tech like me
5|I purchased this item to store info so it would not be lost while working on computers.
5|Easy to set up and access. It has pleNty storage and does back up greatly.
5|Very easy to use. Trouble Free installation and operation. Highly recommended!
5|I bought it as a Time Machine backup for my MacBook Pro.
4|A little shaky at first to install but once it downloaded I was able to store all of my iTunes media freeing up my hard drive, would buy again
5|I love love love this product it has been extremely useful
4|This unit has all of the space I need and the beauty of it all is that it is small enough that I can take it any where and not worry about it's weight.
4|Bought this to backup my laptop and thumb drives, and have no problems with that. I did err when installing, though, and set it to backup on some schedule. Would like to change that, but in my own ignorance, I am sure, have yet to figure out how to get that done.
5|The disk is tiny, comfortable for carrying, the USB-3 speed is great, it triplicated the speed of other USB-2 disk that I have. The USB3 cable is very short though.
5|Pretty straight forward backup storage. Just plug it in and it pops up on your computer. Nice to have such a large amount of storage in a small unit.
4|Easy to use, more than enough for years of pics and family videos
5|I like how portable it is and I paid a good price for the amount of memory!
5|Looks good and is easy to use .. right out of the box.
5|Lightweight and compact. Easy to use. Connects by USB. I backed up both of my computers with room for future data.
5|No issues with this drive and been able to store and transfer files with no problems or crashes!
5|I purchased this hard drive as a backup for my work videos. The 3.0 usb transferred my media quickly and effortlessly. Very user friendly.
5|Works as expected - great value for the dollar. Can't go wrong.
5|Bought as a gift. The terabyte was just what was needed
5|Excellent product for the price, portable, TB of storage!
5|I went from a gigantic old school external drive to this small easy to handle device that is compatible with both Mac and PC!
5|Easy to use and can go from PC to Mac with ease. Very useful.
5|Easiest external drive I have ever had. Compact, simple to use.
5|This is a great slim drive. It's very portable so perfect for on site jobs and transferring large files between friends. I've used Seagate for years and this drive is just another one of their always excellent products!
5|The SeaGate Backup Plus Slim is Quiet, Unobtrusive, and Slick Looking. It does everything I want it to!
4|Great to store any data with ease of use for any users.
1|Had device 1 year. After having to reformat my cpu I was thankful I had backed up my pictures and documents on a Seagate external harddrive. The first time I actually needed it the drive crashed and I lost everything! Now Seagate wants me to pay them $500 to recover the files! Find a better product!
5|It works perfect for storing music, pictures, etc.
5|This is a great product. I'm using it strictly as a back up for photos.
5|I bought this hard drive as I didn't want to keep buying multiple flash drives. All of the pics, music, and other items I had saved barely even counts as a blip in the memory of this hard drive. Super easy to save things, and it's great to have everything all saved to the same place.
5|lets you carry lots of movies, music, and photos with you
4|This hard drive was very easy to use with my desktop computer.
2|Couldn't get it to setup on my MAC. Tried for 2 hours and finally just returned it...
4|It 's very slim and light. This is what i wanted. Performance is also as per my expectation.
5|I would suggest Seagate1TB for additional space for any computer. Easy to use,just plug in the USB.
5|Good amount of reliable storage, fast read/write, decently priced.
4|Great product. Easy to set up and works perfectly with both mac and PC. Does not work with Time Machine but has its own scheduled backup system
5|Good price for this external drive! Great capacity too!
5|I purchased this as a back up for my work computer and haven't been disappointed in it. It runs and holds all of my data as advertised. Seagate is a wonderful name brand with a good reputation and I love their products. I would absolutely recommend this to college students &amp;amp; business professionals.
5|Basically a plug and play unit. Works just as it's supposed to.
5|Very easy to set up and saved a lot of space on my laptop after transferring files to seagate external drive
4|Easy to transfer file from computer to the External Hard drive.
4|I like the sleek look of it and it's very lightweight. I don't like that it's not FAT32 compatible though the price is definitely worth the storage.
5|Works seamlessly with my Mac and what a great price point. I'm gonna buy another one
5|The backup disc is very compact and works great for our needs at the office!
4|i have found nothing to complain about, good product.
5|Great for the price. So far zero problems. Think I'll grab the larger one next time.
4|it works as perfectly as advertised...............
5|Perfect portable USB3 HDD - great size for all of my family images and videos!
4|I got this 3TB external drive to backup my other external drive.
5|I use it to back up my files and is very fast. I will recommend this product
5|This unit is compact, but packs a punch! It worked perfectly and was easy to use. Even a novice can plug in and begin backing up :)
5|Girlfriend said it was best external hard drive!!!
4|I purchased this product after specifically asking the salesman if it was compatible with a windows laptop and a Mac that I would have to be backing up. He assured me that I could use it for both of my laptops but unfortunately it doesn't work that way. It's either a Mac back up or a Windows backup it can't be both. However, it is a good little back up tool and I'll probably just go buy another for my Mac.
5|It is storage...and there is a lot of it. It worked out of the box...no complaints
5|I've not had it long, but it seems to be doing what it should.
5|In spite of being advertised as a Windows 8 external hard drive, it does work great with my Mac Book Air. Get it it is great for sure!
5|Quick file transfers, Nice form factor - sleek looking and small enough to transport easily. Would buy again
5|Very inexpensive compared to the xbox 360 hard drive that I had to purchase. You can connect and set up within minutes. No issues this far.
5|did what it was supposed do to - store data. no problems whatsoever
5|Perfect for transferring info from my PC to my new Mac.
5|I wanted something to store grandchildren photos on and this drive works great. It is easy to get the pictures on and then off to print or save to disc. With my pictures on this drive I don't have to worry if something happens to the memory on my computer.
5|Needed more external storage, this is working! Needed something better for backing up--does it immediately, software is friendly, much more than the last backup unit I had.
5|Love the hard drive, this is my 2nd one,no problems with it , nice and moble fit in your pocket like a cell phone. Love it , LOVE it , LOVE IT!!!!!!!!
5|This item is very good , recommend it to everyone, you can keep your protected documents, and take it with you when you travel.
5|I really love this and I have been using it everyday to store in film projects. I have had no problem with it.
3|I wanted to use this as an external hard drive but it will only allow it to be used to back-up your internal hard drive.
5|This is our second hard driver we got and it's amazon!!! Great for back up!!!
5|Great product, enables me to free up space on my pc by storing my photos on it.
5|I use it to backup my MacBook and it works very easily. Seagate is a good brand.
5|I love my little back up helper. It's been nice to know I can save everything and not worry.
5|The Seagate backup plus 1TB drive is very fast and the small size makes it easy to pack. If you need space or more importantl portable disk this is the ticket and on sale great price.
5|The Seagate 1T was easy to install and use. I was able to back up my data quickly and easily.
5|Very thin and easy to use. Smooth transfers of files between this drive and my computers.
5|Purchased this to store music files on. Works great. Love the size.
5|I needed a drive for my MacBook back up and this works great. I reformated it to be clean for use with Time Machine. The initial backup takes an hour to complete, but subsequent backups take minutes. Definitely Recommended.
5|This was the perfect answer to portable storage for all my ebooks. Very user friendly and easy to set up and keep things in place neatly.
5|This unit works well to back up my computer. Easy to use, simple set up.
5|Thsi external hard drive is exactly what I needed to back up the data from my laptop.
5|As described, reliable and fast Hard Drive. Recommended.
5|I like the compact size and weight along with the ease of use.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim storage drive is exactly as advertised. It is very slim and small and it is very simple and intuitive to use. Plus, it looks great. You can either use Seagates very easy to use dashboard to store and backup your files or you can simply use the old drag and drop method to load and copy your desired files onto the drive. Simple! I highly recommend this drive.
4|The drive was slow to set up and it is difficult to tell if it is working or not. I like the size and apparent speed but I like the software that came with my WD backup drive that died better.
5|The hard drive worked without an incident Easy to download files.
5|I always buy Seagate storage devices and they have never let me down.
1|Talked to a sales rep abt needing a portable hard drive for my tablet. He recommend this but when I got home to use it I found out it does not work with tablets.
5|Does exactly what its supposed to do! It's sheek, sleek, and pretty darn neat!
5|Simple to use! Great! Good for storing your important info like those family reunion pis!
5|Have used Seagate portable hard drive for several years.
4|I love the Seagate device to backup all of our laptops, music, photos and other electronic devices. It us small and compact but holds a ton of information.
5|I got this external hard drive to help transfer and store some files, and it does exactly as intended. Plus, it's extremely sleek and portable.
5|Purchased this drive for use on an Apple computer. After installing the software on the drive, it was easy to move files into the drive.
5|Easy Plug and play. I am very pleased. Would recommend to anybody.
5|Works great! It is smaller and more portable than the one I got just 3 years ago. I bought a protective case to go with it too so I can keep it in my bag.
5|Bought this HD because old was maxed out. Easy to set up and lots of features
5|This product served exactly the purpose we purchased it for
2|When I first purchased the drive, it was to supplement a WD 3TB drive that had backup software that didn't work very well. The Seagate drive seemed to work much better...until now. I had configured the backup process according to the instructions, and all seemed to work fine. Knowing that 3TB was much more than I needed for all my documents, I had also created a photo back up folder that I manually used to save copies of my pictures. All that seemed to work fine until I checked today. The software had apparently stopped backing things up because the drive was FULL! No notification, no warning, no indication that there was a problem THREE WEEKS ago. If I hadn't gone in to look at it, I still wouldn't know that my recent files weren't being backed up. :-( So I looked into deleting the older duplicate files, but I can't find any way to reduce the size of the back up folders. All the directories the software created are labeled as incremental, so I can't just delete the older ones. The documentation says that multiple copies of any changed files are kept, but I can't find where they are. The only files that seem to be backed up are new ones, but there are a lot of folders created where SOME files could be saved, but they are empty by the time I get to the bottom of the chain. Sorry, but I now can't recommend this product. It appears that I will have to delete the backup plan, along with all the files that it saved for me, and recreate a new plan that will start the same process all over again.
5|Great product. Would buy again, would recommend to others again.
5|Great product! Very light and small! I love it!!!!!!
5|Excellent tool for back up pictures and other valuable files
5|My Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive does exactly what I need and once setup will protect my important files without any interaction on my part. It's small footprint and low profile sit quietly on a desk or nightstand unnoticed until needed. I can also save files directly to it allowing more open storage on my computer's hard drive. If you want fast reliable backups, more storage, look no further!
5|EASY SET UP LOTS OF MEMORY, I USE IT FOR EVERTHING
5|It works both Mac and Windows. And very easy to carry.
5|This Seagate external hard drive is small, light, and best of all, lighening quick!! There's a ton of storage space for my photography, which is why I bought it. I highly recommend this American Made Product!!
5|I put photos from my camera on it, and it was small, accurate and easy to use.
4|Good size vs value and runs on sub power. Good size vs value and runs on sub power. Good size vs value and runs on sub power.
5|Easy to use for beginners and just as easy to take with you.
4|My computer hard drive was failing an I need to secure my info from being lost an the Seagate hard drive was very useful with ample storage to handle my files, photos &amp;amp; documents.
5|Had a little trouble hooking it up, but I had someone come in to set it up to run automatically. Runs weekly, and as far as I know it is working just fine. Says back up is complete.
4|I am not too wowed by this but it does do its job.
5|Simply the best &amp;amp; easiest backup device EVER! The price was great at Best Buys (I shopped around). Delivery to store was in less than 1 day. Expert on hand in store to answer my questions.
5|This was a great deal for a small and portable hard drive.
5|Easy plug and play...works well with both mac as well as windows...best bet for the price range..
5|I can't believe this Seagate 1 TB of backup fits in such a small, compact package. We purchased a 1TB backup for our Mac 2 years ago and it's probably 10 times the size. It's easy to move files as well as backup my laptop. Easy to transfer large files from my laptop to coworker's laptops. Great product
5|Store and manage your digital life locally with this Seagate Backup Plus Slim STDR1000100 hard drive, which lets you back up content from select social networks or media stored on select mobile devices. The slim design facilitates portability.
4|Normal Drive, good for the price and storage capacity, I use it with mac an PC.
5|I like to use it. I like the color and light weight design too.
5|Easy to carry with you anywhere. Stores your good memories.i recommend to by this hard drive.
5|Great storage capacity and very easy to use. Have recommended to several friends!
5|I bought this to back up all of our pictures and it was great price.
5|I used it right away and its works perfectly, good speed and USB 3.0 its really fast
5|Loved how easy it was to install and use this product.
5|Easy to connect and load/retrieve. Fast loading too.
5|I purchased this drive as a portable drive to do some back up of important files on my laptop, but found that because of its speed (usb 3.0) and capacity (1TB) for me it functions better as a high capacity flash drive for file transfer.
5|Does exactly what it is supposed to do! Very compact and I like that there is no power supply.
5|I have been using this product for almost 6 months between my PC and my mac at work and home, no problems at all, the transfer speed is fantastic, reliability and design are great.
5|Great amount of storage for the price, easy to use and very quick.
5|Purchased this to save data on an old hard drive and transfer to new computer. It's super easy to use, just plug and drag, and has tons of room for data storage!
5|purchased this item as a backup for many many records and photographs in my voluntary job as record-keeper. Does a great job, lots of room and quick/fast. great backup system
5|this is a great product i love the size and weight,that makes it easy to use
3|It does what is is suppose to do for my Mac laptop and I recommend it.
4|This item is easy to install and pretty straight forward to use. I currently use it to back up my MacBook and it seems to get the job done. Seems to be pretty well made and durable. The price was reasonable for the amount of storage it supplies. It's a good buy.
5|I've been using this portable hard drive with my X-Box One for over a month and it works great. Fantastic value for the price. No problems. Plenty of space.
5|I love this! Because it's portable, I can put all of my movies in here and take it anywhere. I just plug it into my Xbox and watch any movie I want.
5|I use this to back up my MacBook Pro. It installs easily, backs up seamlessly. It is small, compact and easy to store when I'm not using.
4|The backup storage device was extremely easy to install. The software is self explanatory.
5|Easy to take with you anywhere. Just plug it into a computer and it does the rest.
5|Small, lightweight, reliable hard drive for carrying around with a laptop. I bought 2 of them and keep them in sync with each other. One travels with me as a backup for macbook pro, the other stays home with identical data on each.
5|Such an easy product to use for backing up computer data. Just plug in, follow prompts and set schedule to ensure your data is protected if your computer goes haywire. Well worth price to have files, pictures etc safe.
5|Compact and easy too use. Lots of memory for a good price.
5|This external hard drive was just what I needed to transfer my info from my now inoperable computer.
5|Bought this to provide full backup of my laptop and be able to carry anywhere.
4|My main problem with past external hard drives was intrusive backup software, which used to be extremely annoying and disruptive in many ways. This one is NOT like that, you install it if you want. Or you install it and you use it if/when you want. Otherwise you just manually back up your files to the hard drive, in folders separate from the automatic backups.This is great! One minus - the backup software does not track updated files. It backs up everything again next time you do a backup. At least this is the case of manual backups. Did not experiment with hourly or continuously backups. It feels study and well built. Of course, a more realistic review would be to say that it still works after several years, but I don't know about that as I just bought it last month.
5|For graphic design classes my son needed extra storage and this one works out perfectly
5|I purchased this to use with a paticular automotive software and so far it works great with it
4|I needed storage backup to move all my files while trying to troubleshoot and system restore my computer. Now I feel better that all our family photos and important files are safe.
5|Used to back up my family's files and pics. Easy transfer and still lots of storage space! Happy with this purchase. Price is good, lightweight, perfect size to carry around and store.
5|easy to use great what i need it for. user friendly
5|I was looking for an external HD to hook up to my Tablo. The WD drive did not work but this one worked without a problem. It's been great so far!
4|Great for storing pictures and backing up documents from laptop.
5|The Seagate name says it for itself. This is a quality product which I would buy again.
5|It a great product at a reasonable price. Would highly recommended it.
5|This product was easy to use. I have a Mac computer and I had no problems.
5|I am very happy with the product. I was also given a price match with amazon. Very happy with the product. I would recommend it.
4|Bought this to store my CD's on since my new computer doesn't have a disc drive. Works well.
4|It says that it can go between Mac and Windows but it takes some doing. Be careful you could easily erase all your stuff.
5|I have been using Segate Hard Drives for a number of years and have never had any problem of failours. The Segate 500 GB Hard Drive that is in my main computer has been in almost constant use for the last 7 years, without one hickup or priblem of any kind.
5|Seagate is the way to go for my mac book pro travel drive. is really well built and is super fast tranfering my data back and forth . I'm more than happy to own this baby and i will continue to shop for more high quality seagate products. sign happy Customer
4|Very easy to install and use on any machine. Plug in anytime and it automatically starts backing up my computer wherever I'm at.
4|Easy to use, good value for cost. Sleek design and it feels like good quality
5|Great external hard drive to save digitized videos
5|Easy to use. Portable. Gets the job done. Mac and oc friendly
4|I needed a new backup external HDD with affordable price. I think I found the exactly what I wanted. I did not need any complicated options, but I needed easy solutions.
5|Excellent product, I only use Seagate for my back ups, and also purchase for my family
5|I use this as a mass storage for all my videos and PowerPoints.
5|Just what I needed. Perfect size and u wanted something tvat was simple with minimum moving parts.
5|Great for PC backup and storage requirements! Very slim and light weight. Easy to set up and can be placed almost anywhere.
5|This is my first external hard drive. Seems to work. Haven't used it too much but I did move files from a desktop computer to this and I was able to view on laptop. Got it on sale for a great price. Worth having. I like that it's compact and not big and bulky.
5|I needed an external hard drive to back up my photographs. This was one of the cheaper options and it works great.
5|I have had this hard drive for a couple months. It has performed flawlessly as a backup drive. It sits on the desk and does its job without issue.
1|This drive works fairly well for drag and drop backups and data exchange. The software that is included (Seagate Dashboard Agent) is horrible. When set to continuous backup, this software was extremely erratic, backups would stall without notification, etc. Downloaded updates from Seagate regularly hoping that would solve the problem but it didn't. In some cases I would log on to the dashboard software and see that my backup stalled a week ago and never re-started. Good thing I didn't have a drive failure on my PC. This thing is in the trash, I'm switching to a different manufacturer.
5|I love all the features available with this hard drive. Like you can save stuff from your phone too. Also, I like it can be used for mac and pc. I had some issues getting it set up at first though.
4|Easy to use for transferring pictures and videos on multiple operating systems. The USB makes it easy to plug into picture kiosks for printing pictures. Small and compact as well.
4|The device has a lot of memory (1tb) for not a lot of money. It served my needs (largely picture storage) well.
5|Unit performed just as advertised. Plug and play, without hesitation. Fool proof to use.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim USB Drive is easy to setup, install and use. The user interface is intuitive and makes backing up data a snap. It is also a convenient and easy to use medium for transporting data between locations and devices. The 1TB capacity is more than adequate to meet my needs. The compact size makes storing the drive in a smaller safe or fire box a snap. Seagate dependability at a great price. A real value. I'm glad I bought this particular unit and I highly recommend it.
4|I was able to follow the simple directions and move my pictures no problem.
5|I use this as an external backup of all my important data. I recommend you plug it in only when you need to backup and then unplug it. There are some bad viruses out there (ransomware) that mess up your data and they look for all drives and external drives to ruin your files. Keep this unplugged. that way if you get one of those viruses it wont infect your external device.
5|I love this product I'll be getting another one in the future maybe with more storage
5|Everything was included in the package. I hooked it to the computer and it worked right away. It has worked flawlessly. I asked the person at my store which Hard Drive he would recommend, he told me this one.
5|Really fast compact drive. It fits in your pocket. Perfect drive if you are on the road a lot.
5|Excellent product for the price. It does what I expected it to do.
5|So easy I could do it. Affordable and compact. Going to get another one to have a backup of my backup at the bank safe so I know I won't ever loose my precious family memories and important documents.
5|I was in need of having to reformat my hard drive on laptop but I didn't want to lose my 150+gb of music movie pictures... I decided to get a hardharddrive so I could back up all that. Check bb.com came across a external I felt was within the range I wanted to pay, it was more then big enough as well. Small,slightly bigger then a credit card. Can't say if it's fast or slow but I'm not waiting forever for the files to transfer and I'm very happy with this purchase. I would get. It again if I needed another one or recommend to anyone that's looking for one to get this one.
5|High capacity at a great price. Very easy to set up and use. Provides everything I was looking for. Used for transitioning to a new computer. Now provides backup capability.
4|I have never owned a external hard drive it was referred by friends on multiple occasions due to the amount of files I store on my laptop or tablet.
5|I couldn't believe that the cost for twice the amount of storage was only $5 more that 500 GB.
5|Great USB 3 drive. Easily portable, so far seems quite durable.
5|I was nervous about this purchase but all the reviews I read said it was very simple and easy to use. The reviewers were 100% spot on. The product has a small footprint too which also adds to its appeal. I purchased this product to backup an aging desktop that I plan to retire soon. This product was a perfect fit for my needs!
5|I purchased this for college and have been nothing but pleased. I have the 2014 MacBook Pro and it works really easily with TimeMachine backups. Took virtually no set up and is incredibly thin and portable.
5|Light and compact with plenty of storage. Easy to use
5|I have had this product for two years and it's worked great. I used all the available space and needed another to archive my work, so naturally I would purchase the same product.
5|Easy to 'install'. Direct from box to computer. Works just as described. No problems.
2|could not get it to work correctly with windows 8.1
5|I use this drive primarily for music performance and its super fast and responsive.
5|Is very good and cheap. It's has good size and big memory
5|Great product, super easy to use. Wifi connection for phone transfer is awesome.
5|This is a high quality external for a low price. I can't believe how high quality this is transfers were easy!
5|At a great price! USB 3.0 makes transferring large video files a breeze.
4|I've used this Seagate external 1T storage bank for several weeks now, and so far it has performed flawlessly. Its great for storing pictures and music.
5|I was looking for an external hard drive with which to store my massive CD collection on, so I would be able to play all my music through iTunes without having to eat up my computer's hard drive, but since I was only using it for music I really didn't want to spend a fortune. After having owned the Seagate 1TB for about a week now, I've already copied well over 100GB of music to it, and it's still working like a champ! Light weight, compact, affordable, fast download speed, you really won't find a better external hard drive for the price. I would highly recommend for anyone looking to clear up some space on your computer. Also, if you're a mac user (like myself) don't be put off by the fact that it doesn't include Thunderbolt/Firewire because the USB 3.0 on this thing is FAST!
5|The person was very helpful. I got out before the store closed. Thank YOu
3|A plug and play device that made getting a new computer an easier transition.
5|For the price you can't go wrong. Easy to use and works quickly. Must have for backing up your data!
4|Everything worked right out of the box, no need to install drivers. Plug and play ready to go. Fast write/read speed and the hard drive didn't get hot after use like my previous one. Great price and size is compact.
5|This is a great hard drive. I bought this hard drive to use with my xbox one and it works perfect. very easy to setup with the xbox one and adds a ton of storage.
5|Wanted the flexibility of moving files without restricting them to the laptop. Easy on, easy off. Great for photos.
5|I was looking for a new hard drive after my last one (different brand) crashed. This is absolutely perfect for my needs. It boots up really fast and is nice and compact!
5|This unit is much better that a WD My Passport Essential I was using previously.
5|This storage device is huge and easy to carry about. Very good
5|No problems here. Easy is use....just plug and play
5|Great Device for backup and storage. Fast and Reliable.
5|Does exactly what its supposed to do. Happy with my purchase.
5|Great product and easy to use. So far no problems and would definitely recommend.
5|Great backup drive. This drive is fast, reliable, and has plenty of storage space. Have never had any problems out of the multiple drives I have used over the years.
5|I have been using this drive to backup my music and pictures, and have not had any problems. It is fast and easy to use.
5|Backing up a couple computers, this was good price for capacity.
4|This hard drive has a great metal finish that feels very premium. The included software installs easily for Mac or Windows. So far I haven't had any issues, it performs very fast when used with a 3.0 port.
4|Purchased to be the backup drive for my Mac Mini. I use Time Machine to do automatic incremental backups. This small hard drive fills the bill just fine!
5|Purchased this to use as a travel hard drive - it's the perfect size to slip into any bag, and has enough space to hold everything needed. Set up was quick and easy.
5|Easy set up and small design make it great for fitting on the entertainment shelving.
5|Easy to use, light in weight, and has tons of space to save all your files. Great not only for back up all your computer items, but also to carry in the purse as a huge flash drive.
4|It's very light and not bulky to carry around. Pretty sturdy and the transfer speed is quite good.
5|I love this extrenal hard drive. Tons of space and had caused me no problems!
5|Purchased for occasional use, work great and I'm more than satisfied.
5|It was easy to install and easy to use. Well worth the money!
2|this was bought primarily to back up my pictures but I haven't been able to figure out how to totally work it retrieving a portion of what I need yet,or to backup my picture programs like for my little camera..it uses its own program to download in and I cant get it to download...I just tucked the Seagate in the back of my desk because I don't want to have to try to figure it out anymore until I have TONS of time
5|all I care about is speed and dependability this has both... have tried wd hard drives, takes almost double the time to download my videos on to them, will alway buy seagate from now on.
5|At first, setting up the software can be a little tedious, especially if you're a Mac owner. But after calling customer service, I was able to install and set up the hard drive and I never have any problems with it. Now I am able to store all of my music, photos, and movies without compromising my laptop's storage space! Overall, one of the smarter purchases I've made all year.
5|Very good product quality for the price, very recommended
5|i was able to back up my videos and files much faster. light weight,portable and perfect.
5|Easy to setup. Size is perfect, it's slim and pocket size.
5|We travel a lot and hate dragging our CDs with us. So we bought external drive for that purpose. It is easy to use and has lots of space.
4|This storage device met all of my expectations and was very easy to use. It was pretty much a plug and play device.
5|I use it as a backup to my main pc hardrive to do backups daily and it has worked flawlessly, setup was quick &amp;amp; easy. Price was right too!
5|Perfect amount of memory to use with time machine on my macbook pro.
5|This hard drive has worked flawlessly with my mac, and pc! I love it.
4|Simple to use and very compact size is great for Mobile use. Price is very competitive for the Size of the Device (Memory)
4|Bought to save data from a dying flash drive. Easy to use and data seems safe. Have also backed up my laptop.
5|This is a great hard drive for the money. Easy to setup and very compact. I use it for both work and personal.
5|This was my first external hard drive purchase. It was on sale at $10 off so it was an easy choice. I'd purchase it again. Nice features
5|Just as advertised. Does what needs to be done and works fast.
5|Handled all my needs for storage and backed up my laptop and smart phone and music, with a ridiculous amount of space still available! Love it! It's also small and compact and easy to use, a caveman could do it! :)
5|The seagate was very easy to setup and use. I needed it to copy files to transfer to new desk top. The process was smooth and files transfered with no issues. The seagate dashboard is an excellant tool when using the seagate to back up files.
5|Super simple to use and install. Great compact size makes this a breeze to pack.
5|Needed a device for pictures when traveling. This fits the bill nicely. It is small and has plenty of room.
5|Great drive, I only buy Seagate drives, they seem to be able to take a beating and just keep working. have never had any issues with the backup units and carry them around with me
5|Bought this to back up an older desktop computer before it dies. Was easily able to back up all the information.
1|I purchased this item less than a month ago. Put all my pictures n important documents.. Now they are all gone no way to retrieve all my stuff. I called customer support at Seagate they offered to retrieve my info for $500. After less then a month get real? If you want to keep your info safe don't purchase this defective storage system.
5|easy to use, fast, and efficient. Small, light weight, and portable!! The slim body fits nicely into my carrying bag and laptop case without being bulky.
5|Once it is set up, you don't have to do anything which is great. It was very easy to set up back up.
5|easy to use and gives peace of mind. Doesnt take up much space.
1|Had to go through a lengthy driver download and the thing would not work. Caused my other drives to stop working. Tried several times. Same result. Returning it. Bad or very user unfriendly.
4|It was easy to set up. It is doing what it is suppose to do and back up my data.
4|When you need extra space Seagate is my first choice.
5|Great customer service and product knowledge. Thanks
4|I love the slim design. Very handy and enough storage.
5|I bought this hard drive to transfer files from my old laptop and some files from my desk top to carry with me everywhere and access and use with my new lenovo laptop. I also bought the external harddrive to use as a back up system for my lenovo.
5|This is a great external for secondary backup. It's also nice that it can be read by both PC/MAC.
5|I work a lot between operating systems and this works for both. Good transfer speed too.
4|This drive is compact and provides a good amount of storage without heating issues.... So far.
5|The sale for this item was perfect. Great storage device and very affordable
5|I like this portable hard drive. The size is great and the weight is light.
5|Did not know there was such a thing. I think it is great. Uploaded all my extra stuff on my computer and made more room. I am not a techie so it had to be thoroughly explained to me.
5|Great to store my pictures and media. Good speed and very compact! Like the design as well, simple but elegant!
5|This 1TB external drive has been simplicity itself. Plugged it into the USB port, told windows to use it for File History, and haven't had to think about it since. Very small footprint on the desk top.
5|As soon as I purchased the Seagate Backup Plus , I went straight to my dorm to backup everything!
5|Easy to install and has all the Office applications I need.
5|I found it to be exactly what I was looking for and it serves my needs well.
4|Nothing fancy about it, just a good HDD for everyday use.
5|The price was perfect. Great product for storage..
5|Having not used an external hard drive before I was wondering how much hassle it would be to back up all my files. Plug and play. Just that easy.
5|Very easy to use. I have been using this for 4 months with no issues.
5|This is one of the better portable hard drives out there, never have issues, always speeds up quickly and never loss of data.
5|A great backup drive for the cost. Can be used with Mac and PC
4|The product has worked well thus far. I'm able to store all of my documents with ease. Besides the installation which I needed Assistance with it's been great and I plan on using it much more
5|Great portable drive for the money! Great with USB 3.0!
4|Great product just takes a bit of figuring out and plugging and unplugging but ones it starts up great. Bit long the first time backing up but definitely better than my prior product.
4|I had bought this after comparing it to the Western Digital external HD of the same size. The price was better, and the connection speed was faster. The initial set up of the software was a piece of cake, then it came to the first backup. It at and froze at 3% for well over an hour and made no further progress. I was patient and let it continue, and after a few hours the backup was finally complete. After this, the backups have been extremely easy. Don't be disheartened if it seems to freeze on you at first, since it will work. Just hoped the process would have been faster to begin with, and show more accurately what the progress actually was.
5|One terrabyte at this price? Great deal! I am going to buy another one.
4|A necessity in a world full of PC crashes and unexpected moments. Backup your files with a good brand!
5|Awesome product I use it every day so the greatest thing ever I would recommend it to everybody.
5|I recently added this drive for special backup needs that I have. The drive has been in constant use for about a month and 24/7. It seems to be solid construction, very light weight and thin. I like this product better that the slightly larger Toshiba 1.5 TB drive with similar dimensions. I would buy this again if I had the opportunity. I think this is a solid, useful, light weight product.
5|Great little hard drive, good price, small and light, I use it as a time machine backup disk for my macbook.
5|Easy to use, just plug and use. Slim and light weight
5|I like the USB3.0 and backward compatability with USB2.0 I needed it to backup my data off my laptop and the kids PC. This was very handy I backed up all the data I needed very quick and easy.
3|it came with no directions and was hard to operate.
5|Perfect for what we needed to use to remove our files
5|i use it all the time, definitely recommended for everyone!
5|This product was super easy to use and highly recommend this to anyone!
4|Very easy to set up.. And very easy to use. Would buy again.
5|Great external for everything I need plug n play great price and am very pleased with it.
5|Using it to back up my Mac. Works as it should. No problems so far. Have only had it a few weeks.
5|POCKET SIZE, CAN TAKE IT FROM WORK TO HOME. I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS TO ANYONE WHO NEEDS TO TRANSPORT DATA FROM ONE PLACE TO ANOTHER. THE USB 3 ALLOWS FOR FAST LOADING AND RETREIVAL.
5|Great to keep my work . Save all my school work. Keep my records in order. Can store all my photos and video.
5|It Was Easy To Use And Packs AndTravels In My Computer Bag.
5|Haven't experienced any problems. I'm satisfied. I thought the price was reasonable, and especially so since it was on sale.
4|The product is slim and the price is fair for 1 tb. Although they are all about the same price.
4|this item is consistent with what I need to to do.
5|I had heard that "certain" brands had a high failure rate, but I've never had any problems with Seagate products. I purchased this drive several months ago, and I have had no problems with it. I highly recommend it for backups.
5|This product is a terrific product for a terrific price. An overall top-notch value.
5|Device does what you need it to do. Easy to use and handy to carry around.
4|Good one hard drive I use from now. I recommend all my friends to use this one. It's look nice &amp;amp; portable. Easy use in travel.
4|This was what I was looking for to store my photos.
5|Thin, portable storage device. Great value and convenient size.
5|Price point is good for the size of this device. It is simple to use, works great at the higher USB speeds. I have had it about two months now and no issues.
5|This is a great device to keep on hand if you start running a bit low on hard drive space for your desktop or laptop. It has a relatively quick data transfer rate and is very light, therefore easy to transport
4|Bought two during Black Friday event. Great product no problems what do ever
5|This is an easily-portable device which I use to backup all of my important documents and pictures. It's easy to use, and has plenty of storage space.
4|Love this extra back up storage to carry my training videos.
5|I have used this device with no problems - fast and easy operation
5|I use this to backup my computer and it works as advertised. Haven't had any issues with it yet and it's been about 6 months since I started using it. It's the perfect size for me and gets the job done.
5|A very easy to use product with simple directions.
5|This drive does what I need it to do. Backs it up!
4|It's slim but has a big capacity. I wanted to buy another one but it's the last pack they have that day...
5|I'm impressed with what this piece can help. Very light and slim, fits in my pocket and stores all the files I need. Recommended.
5|Good product !! I made a backup of my old laptop and works perfectly. easy to use.
5|Works great, nice and small so it is easy to take places
5|Nice and compact product met my expectations at a fair price.
5|The Seagate 1TB External Hard Drive acts like a huge thumb drive. I have both my PC and laptop backed up on the same drive. Additionally, you can use the Seagate Hard Drive to store and transfer files from one computer to another without the worry of running out of space.
2|We bought it and loaded everything on it on one laptop, then when we switched laptops the hard drive could no longer be read on ANY laptop we tried.
5|I literally use this external hard drive everyday. Easy to use and its size allows it to be extremely portable. Highly recommended!
5|You get a lot of storage space for your money. Highly recommended!
5|Very small and compact. Perfect for backing up info or transferring pics and videos off of a computer to save on desktop hard drive space.
4|works great i load a lot of movies and it does the trick
4|i like the products i also recomend to some body else the likes
5|I can put so much on this device. My stories, photography, videos... Easy to travel with, too! If you purchase this, be sure to buy a case for it as well!
5|fast and quick backup. Reasonably priced (got on sale).
4|HDDs either work or they don't. This one seems to work just fine, and the price was right.
5|The hard drive is dependable and reliable. I like the size and the price was in line with my expectations.
5|I would recommend this drive for anyone looking for good storage for a good price
5|Was looking for an external drive to do routine backups after a data loss scare. Easy set up and backups.
5|This was a breeze to connect to my MacBook Air and sync. I am very pleased with this product. I also like that it reminds you to upload periodically so that your computer is backed up.
4|I needed this equipment for what I'm studying at school. It is working out well for me as I reall thought it would and that makes me happy.
5|Excellent price! Very compact device of nice design.
5|This product is very easy to use. It's like magic! Just plug it in the USB port and all the instructions follow on the screen. Very user friendly, and a lot of storage space for the price! Good investment!
4|Simple to use. Straightforward installation. I use it as a storage drive between machines.
5|Great product for the price, Highly recommend for backing up computers and photos plus easy to carry around if I need to.
5|Small, compact, and easy to install what could be better.
5|I own several Seagate USB external hard drive of different capacities from 500 GB to 2 TB. All of them have worked flawlessly including the 1 TB drive that I am reviewing here. USB 3.0 is about 5 times faster than USB 2.0 and is well worth the small extra cost  5 hours versus 25 hours to back up my data (with 3.0 I can do a full backup overnight while I sleep; with 2.0 it takes more than a 24-hour day). It's a true "plug and play" device. Virtually no set up is required  just attach the cord, plug it in, and you're ready to go. The drive appears as a new letter on your computer screen. After that, to back up directories and files, it's simply a matter of "dragging and dropping." Alternately, since it's a physical drive, you can save files and directories as you would to any other physical drive. The build quality is excellent. I switched to Seagate after being repeatedly unhappy with various performance and compatibility problems with other brands. It comes with useful software for automatic scheduled back ups, as well. One trick: I keep the 1 TB drive hooked up at all times, have created a directory called "Recent BKUP," and save my work to that directory every few minutes in real time. That way, should my computer crash, I always have a copy of my latest files on a portable file. I also use this as the target drive for a daily automatic scheduled backup.
5|Easy to set up. Just go ahead and install the software, plug in the drive, tell it to back up and you're ready to go. It won't set you back that much money either it has a very reasonable price tag for the size and what it does.
5|It's so easy to use, connect, store and keep files/archives. Simple and powerful.
5|Reasonable price, easy to use. Love the small handy portable size! All you need is a safety case. Get one d
5|Affordable, reliable and big storage (3TB). Must Buy.
5|small and easy to carry. I now have all my best photos on this drive and can take it with me easily. Love it.
5|Great backup storage for my music from the macbook
5|First, I use this for Time Machine on my Mac. Second, I use it to store files to share between my Windows PC and Mac. No complaints so far. It does all that with no problems. It's compact for easy mobility. I referred to Youtube to figure out how to set it all up for my needs.
4|I am pleased with this purchase. I have not had to use the backup yet, but I feel confident it is sufficient.
5|This is an excellent and cost effective source for backup of data. It is very small, runs quite with no heat. Powers from the USB cable so cuts down on cables and AC power plugins. It is also USB 3.0 which should be much faster than 2.0 though I haven't used it with 3.0 yet but will soon with new 3.0 computer. Not real happy with included backup software. Will work but has a lot to be desired.
5|I love these. I have them at home and work. Great way to back up. Reliable and fast.
5|I've always liked Seagate. Their hard drives get the job done. Plus their warranty is solid.
5|For 1TB of storage capacity, it was value for money. I have used Seagate external hard drives in the past with no issues at all. My files are backed up and safe.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus External Drive is great! It takes up very little space on a desk yet holds 1TB of data. Because it is compact, it is easy to take with you when traveling. I would recommend the Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive to anyone needing to backup important documents. It is also very reasonably priced.
5|Simple backup program helps manage data. Backup and restore process seems a little slow depending on how much data needs to be moved. Prepare to wait a long, long time.
5|Would recommend this to anyone who needs an external! Size is worth the cost!!
4|I bought this disk drive solely for backup purposes for a System Image. Seems to work well for that.
5|Works great and transfers very quick. We love it!..
5|Product is very good. Works fine and is friendly user, light and small.
4|works well as security system video storage device.
5|The external hard drive is perfect for storage. I have old files and photos on it which are easy to get to when needed. Easy to add to, also!
5|Easy to use. Just plug in and save files into it. Good deal!
5|This is my second Seagate external hard drive, The previous one was not used extensively and sat for a long time. I called tech support and they were able to help me even though it was way out of warranty. Nice people, So when I needed one for work I bought another Seagate. They have a great reputation. The set up was super easy and it is running beautifully. I will never be without an external drive again since I experienced a computer crash and lost so much data. I would recommend Seagate to all.
5|This external hard drive works great. It's not too big either so you can carry it with you if you need and it's not a huge piece of machinery.
5|I purchased this to store my many photos I have on my laptop. It is easy to use and holds a lot.
5|I've never had issue with this device. Fast, durable and reliable!
5|I purchase the external hard drive after purchasing a Mac Air which had little memory space. It was comparable with Apple and was easy to use.
5|I needed some space for more DLs from the Nintendo WiiU. This HD is great at 1TB, so I have more than enough space. The best part is that it is powered off via a USB to the WiiU, so no need for an extra power cord. The set up was so easy and I have been very pleased with this HD.
5|The external hard was very easy to install on both Macs and PC. Great for people on the go (teachers, businessmen)
4|Goes in your pocket, no external power needed. Tons of room.
5|NICE, PORTABLE AND EASY TO USE . I USE MINE FOR MUSIC STORAGE
5|I use this little guy to keep a current backup of my laptop. Love the handly little size. Wish the cord was a little more universal (in case I lose it), but it lives in my laptop case and provides insurance. It's perfect for that.
5|Purchased this portable hard drive for an associate working in the field. He's been happy with it. No issues. A small conveniently sized drive at a good price.
5|It has been great. Small for storage and easy to use!
5|Serves the reason I purchased this item. It's great.
5|Fantastic drive. Lightweight and slim. Cable is good length, not too long to get caught up with other things. Feels sturdy and tough, not plasticky. Non-skid covering. Definitely a good buy.
5|Not bulky like they used to be, this backup drive is perfect for my college kid's dorm room!
5|It is so easy to use, so small and customer friendly. I have extreme confidence in using it.
5|Works great out of the box. Very light and convenient to carry. I didn't use the built in software.
5|Seagate has always been a great hard drive and they're always there for you if your product doesn't work properly.
5|Pleased with Seagate products, slim and well made.
4|This portable back-up drive is small, efficient and does the job while the price is right. The physical size is perfect and one terabyte of storage is enough for my needs.
5|This memory fits my needs, glad I bought it. It enables me to transfer and store all my memory in one easy place.
4|The Seagate hard drive is very reliable, compact, and has lots of storage space.
5|I have had problems with WD hard drive crahes, and thus did some homework on hard drive dependability. Seagate came out near the top. I have several, and they all working fine.
4|I needed a new external drive.works as well as expected.
5|Great hard drive. Definitely recommend it. Small and reliable
5|By far the best investment for peace of mind. I originally purchased one for work. When the time came to purchase a new home computer and transfer the data from my 10 year old VAIO, I went back to Seagate for this reliable hard drive. It is easy to use, fast, economical, and reliable. The price was very competitive and the Seagate name brings peace of mind.
5|Simple to use and set up. I use it for daily backups of the files on my laptop.
5|True plug n play. No problems at all. I will buy another one when I need more storage.
4|Very easy to set up. Great feeling to know all my important documents are backed up. Feels better than relying on the cloud to store my documents.
5|The Seagate external hard drive is small in size and holds a surprisingly large amount of information that anyone would want to back up against loss. I bought it for my pictures so I wouldn't have to store them on my computer. I started downloading albums and thought I was filling the Seagate but when I checked it was only 3% filled. I have now saved my photos in case of any crash or problem with my computer and since it holds so much information I will be adding other files!
4|the best drive.never had any issues with this drive
5|Mega storage space at a really affordable price, great compatibility and functionality
5|Easy to use and stores a lot of data. Small and light weight.
4|I had 2 of these harddrives fail. I back everything up on CD also. This product would be a little better if it had a second back up like the Word Cloud does, Other wise I have had satisfaction with Seagate on the whole.
5|Very easy to install and works great. I am very pleased with my purchase.
4|This was kind of hard yo figure.out but the geek guys helped me get it done
5|We purchased this to help us back up 2 computers. We got a new PC and wanted to reformat one for continued, but different use and delete everything off the other to put away for emergencies. I guess we didn't have that much data, because this held everything we had and we still have space! I would recommend this for backing up your computers, in case of crash!
5|Easy to use, great value ,"slim" not as bulky as others.
5|This drive has satisfied my need for a secure way to back up my important files.
5|Bought this with the purpose of connecting it to my netgear ac router and creating a cloud storage with it. Very easy setup and it works great, plenty fast enough to stream movies off of! Happy Happy Happy!!!
5|The Seagate backup plus is great for saving personal documents, music, pictures or anything you have on your computer. I bought it because I wanted to take everything off my computer and redo it. I had plenty of space and then some for other stuff later. It is very simple and easy to use.
5|I wanted something that I could put in my pocket and would carry all my notes and multiple research and journals, plus have room to spare for pictures. This product delivers all that and more
5|This is an excellent device to backup my data. This works like a jump drive, you can drag and drop.
5|Holds a lot of storage slim case a must. Can take anywhere. Easy hook up and downloads
5|I bought this unit so I could download photos from the camera/card. I use it when traveling and it has been a terrific addition to my camera gear.
5|This portable hard drive has been one of the easiest and best to use for our company. We purchased several to accommodate our expanding needs, plus the needs for a good backup source. It is a high speed process with a super-easy drag and drop ability to weed through your necessary file transfers. It is very easy to setup and immediately start the process. It could not be easier to personalize the file that you need. I would recommend it to the avid or the 1st time user.
5|Seagate or Western Digiital, no difference when it comes to product quality. For $59.99, the price was right for this external hard drive. The 3.0/2.0 USB and 1TB storage space was perfect for back-up needs. Great Deal!
5|Awesome product. Perfect size Works great. Easy start up
4|So far this has worked great to set up a back up for my laptop (Windows 7 software). I have a lot of pictures, papers, and data that I can't afford to lose so I went with the 1 Terabyte which only cost $5 more than the 500 Gigabyte which is half the storage.
5|I got this drive to fill the double role of providing an additional back up device and to use as a portable device to allow access of desktop data for our lap top and our other portable devices. The size and reviews are excellent, and reformatting was a snap. I would recommend this drive as a solid, medium sized portable drive for any purpose.
4|Its a awesome product for a good price. Works well with Mac and PC both.
4|I love this thing. I always wanted one but wasn't sure if I would understand how use it. It is so easy though!
4|This is a very good hard drive!!!! I recomend this!!!!
4|Was looking to expand my storage for a MacBook and this got the job done. It works w/ my PC too.
5|A very reliable item. Very highly recommended! Thanks
4|Works well with Mac and PC, transfer speed is good. Very compact and good value.
5|i needed a backup for saving music files. this hard drive was perfect! easy to use.
4|Great product, slim, easy to keep and easy to use.
5|I have no complaints with this hard drive. Looks nice and is a great size. Price is affordable.
5|Easy to install; Will give you the peace of mind that your files are continuously backed up.
5|I purchased this to backup important data and pictures from my computer. It worked flawlessly.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim storage device was exactly what I was looking for. What I love is the ease of setup and it's compatabilty with both Mac computers and HP computers. It's slim, lightweight feature makes it easy to carry and use. I bought it on sale and everybody loves a deal, especially when it's a great buy!
5|I just love how easy it is to save data and to carry around
5|Depending on your necessities it could be a excellent choice. In my case I bought two of those. The first one I had it to creat a disk factory recovery of a computer that required around 1T to finish up. And that's it, I can't use it for anything else. But the second one is the storage of a lot of music, movies, games and even docs I want to keep safe.
4|Easy to use, convenience size. I can take it everywhere and look at my pictures, listen my music and review my important documents in any other computer. 1TB is great capacity of storage, only the price ( 69.99) was little high for me but needed to buy it because my laptop's hard disk was about to get damage, couldn't afford to lose important information.
5|this is perfect for anyone needing an external HD for gaming systems.....it was so easy to set-up pretty much plug-n-play. its compact enough to keep from other heat sources to help from any chance of overheating &amp;amp; crashing. I don't know what else to add its perfect for what I needed it for, so i'd bought another for the xbox one in the other room. A+ verrrrrrry happy with this purchase !!
5|Used the hard drive to hook up to my Dish Hooper. Plug and play. No fuss and worked the first time.
5|Just plug in how easy is that? We cancelled back up service so cost was almost a wash. Cheap price for peace of mind.
5|It does everything and more I am very happy with it
5|Very slim and sleek design. Download times are great as well as uploads.
4|This is a bread small HD, plan on taking this to college.
4|Good for standard storage. Would definitely recommend buying a case, if the port gets damaged, very hard to recover data.
5|I used this to save pictures and apps prior to restoring my computer. Just followed the on screen directions worked flawless.
5|purchased this to save pictures and other items off my computer to free up computer space. easy to use, just plug in and go.
5|great and very easy to use...I now back up my computer weekly as I keep it right on my desk as its sleek design allows for it to sit right next to my computer
4|Easy to setup and use. Works great between PC and MAC
4|Not a bad product. Instructions could be better. Good feature is ability to backup your smartphone.
5|This is an awesome ext drive.. So far I have not had any problems with it ..
4|I think this is a great bargain. It has good storage space and it works pretty quick. I like it's physical size too. It's a decent size, not too large.
5|Love the slimness and how small and easy to carry.
5|It is great, used it immediately when returned from store.
5|This is a small and compact product with a great amount of storage space.
5|very smal and very good save your important files.....
4|this is a good product that works well. try and buy it on sale so you can save money..
5|I have had several seagate external hard drives and I love them. They work great with my Mac and the good thing is that you can split the memory to work with PC and Mac. Data is interchangeable between both platforms but formatting can be different. It is an easy device to work, just plug and play. What I did notice, is that the drive works best if I start it on a Mac and then go to PC. If I saved stuff on the external drive from the PC first and then try to go to the Mac, the formats usually don't convert as well. I haven't had issues once I erased and started it on the Mac first.
5|this hard drive is definitely worth the price. easy to use, and haven't had any issues with it as of yet.
5|Was easy to connect and use. Good speed. Slim design (a lot of GB in one skinny device)
5|I bought this to primarily store pictures and documents in order to free up space on an older computer that does not have many gigabites or much memory.It does an excellent job and I love that I can take it with me if and when I travel and plug into any computer to have easy access to what is stored on it. It has done the job I bought it for very well.
5|Good for the price, good quality remarkable brand Easy to connect
4|It is a good brand that tends to never fail. It is also made better by its price.
5|Very useful, portable and easy to use at a great price.
4|Works as instructed no issues as far as backing up PC. Simple instructions, price was very competative
4|bought it for my daughter. she seemed pleased with it.
5|Was used to backup home computer. Easy to use and a great price.
5|I bought this product for my girlfriend to use at college. She has an animation class that she uses it for to back up her projects. It is fulfilling her needs. She is very happy with the product.
5|Purchased as backup storage for a new laptop. I just plugged it in and it worked with no hesitation. Performance is perfectly adequate for what I need. Highly recommended.
5|Did everything as advertised. SwPped files/programs from one computer to another. No issues.
5|For my movie editing needs this is a great one to get and to have!
5|I've got two if them. If it didn't work, I wouldn't have any.
5|I got this for back-up for my shoddy WD external hard drive. I liked the price for 1 TB.
5|Really enjoy the portability and no outside charger is needed
5|Very easy to use...didn't have any problems.i can put all my videos,pictures and programs.
5|Good portable size, lots of space to backup photos and files, USB3.0 is fast
5|It's really great and easy to use. plus it's comptablie with Microsoft and Apple
5|I needed a removable drive to store all my business and financial info on. This drive is user friendly and well priced.
4|1st hard drive I've ever bought. It's great! You can save info by date and where you last left off.
5|I would recommend this for anyone, it's very easy to use.
5|Very happy with purchase! Slim design fits in my laptop bag easily. Tons of storage. Used on my Mac to download files and uploaded to pc with no problems!!!
5|I like the security of being able to store treasured photos and important files away from home in case of fire or theft.
4|It works well. Nothing special but its just what I was looking for.
4|Would not recommend since it is not so easy to set up
5|The Seagate-Backup Plus Slim 1 TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive meets all of my needs including the large scale demands I have for 10's of GB's at a time. It is an extremely fast and efficient device which meets all of my temporary needs.
5|This Seagate model is perfect for what i needed it for.
4|The is a good external drive to copy files from an old windows machine to a mac. Once all of the files are copied i can then use this drive for mac's time machine.
5|We purchased a 1 TB drive to backup my wife's files on her computer that we have reason to believe was infected with a virus. We backed up all her files onto the drive and we have plenty of space to spare.
5|nice price and backs up my computer. gets the job done. will see when it fails how long it lasts
4|This is a great product. It takes the worry out of losing information//documents/pictures.
5|We needed to send a client a large set of files and this did the trick
1|This is the first backup device I've purchased and have read the directions over and over. Seems to work well with my new computer but wish it had more detailed directions. Went online to a tutorial but still confused as to how to access the files I backed up from my other laptop. All the files are in weird order and no names (that I'm familiar with) are associated with the files. It came highly recommended (especially for a beginner like me) but I'm not impressed. I spent a several hours studying this and just gave up. Don't have time. It shouldn't be this hard or time consuming.
5|Easy to use and plug and play. It's small and sleek and worth every dime.
5|Needed a large enough drive to back up a couple computers. This is the drive for the job!
5|Easy to use and worth the price. This item is small so it's portable and can be stored in a safe without taking up much space.
4|Works fine, took a while to get it to accept my data download. Instructions not clear,
5|Needed something to back my files up with since my old PC was having issues. This was the right size and what I needed.
5|Great for some additional space for that new macbook air or pro. I use it primarily as a time machine backup.
5|Great fast way to get more storage. you plug the thing in and it works. If only everything worked like this. Awesome.
5|This external hard drive is easy to use and has enough storage for all my pictures and excess info.
5|This is a simple to use easy to plug in solution for quick some what limited in size(capacity) that is easily portable. Not complicated to use at all.
5|Great external HDD. Seagate makes great HDD. Would recommend these to everyone.
5|I would recommend this to anyone that needs an external file backup system.
4|It looked like an easy install and I downloaded files. It took hours to load but when I tried to recall files from it, they were nothing but empty folders. I chalk it up to inexperience and not reading the directions carefully. I will try it again in the future.
5|Bought 2 of these to back up my school work for vet school.
4|Very plug and go. I suggest formatting it right away to get rid of all the junk that the manufacturer throws in there. Makes this thing run like a snail. Get rid of all that and it is a truly plug and go storage device.
4|I was running out of space on my current external hard drive. I needed something that did not require lots of downloading. Works great. It even does weekly backups without me asking.
5|Perfect size &amp;amp; price for what I needed. Lots of storage space.
5|I purchased this item for a family member who does not have much knowledge of any technology. This item was easy for them to use and it backed everything up quickly without any problems.
5|like that it can be used with pc and mac, easy to use
5|Great device for home and office. No need to connect via cables. Just set up through Seagate Media and all is ready.
4|I wanted this just for my photos and hit works ok.
3|I wanted to use this as extra storage for my laptop, but turns out this isn't what it does. It backs up your social media and things. But you can reformat it to do this so that's what I did and it's fine.
5|Maximum storage easy to manage very reliable i recommend this to everyone
4|It's fast and easy to setup. The disk works as intended. I am pleased with this purchased.
3|Expensive but recommended by employee. Backed up my hard drive which was needed because the PC I just bought is a nightmare.
5|Small size, doesn't need an additional power supply. Very responsive.
5|I take a lot of pics and needed an external hard drive and what I bought does the job..
5|This is a great external drive! Very slim and large storage amounts.
5|I don't trust the cloud, so I use it to carry all the files I need when traveling.
5|Great reliability, great price and pocket size. Perfect for my needs.
5|I purchased this at a reasonable price and the performance is exactly what I was looking for to use with my tablet as well as my home computers.
5|I AM TECHNICALLY CHALLENGED, NO PROBLEMS TRANSFERRING FILES
5|I primarily use it to transfer my files between macbook and PC. I also use it for backing up both computers. It runs really well and I have noticed no downsides
5|This is an excellent, small, high capacity hard drive that is priced right. I bought three of these drives and they are being used daily to transport lots of data reliably! NO problems!!
5|holds everything we need it to. super light so easy to move around.
5|Product works exactly as advertised. Has an easy-to-use backup program for your computer with the option to also back up your phone.
5|Product was on sale when I got it and for someone who isnt tech savy, it worked great.
5|I have a computer that is causing me some problems. This will aid me if it happens to give up on life.
5|I use this to keep my stuff I do for work and personal uses.
5|I bought it for an external hard drive on my Xbox One. Set up was very easy. It is compatible with both pc and Mac.
5|Very portable useful hard drive works for me perfectly.
5|This is a great little hard drive, nice and slim and also blazing fast transfer speeds thanks to the USB 3.0
5|Simply plug and go, needed no further installation of any extra software or programs. Great device, no issues!
5|just plug into a USB port ( recommend doing it overnight when not using) great peace of mind.
5|I had even wanting to save my photos for the longest time and finally with this product I feel that my all my pics are stored safely! :)
5|Easy to use. Simply plug in to the computer and watch it work.
5|I have used it for about 3 months now. I have mainly used it to recover files from an old laptop. I was able to accomplish my target. The product has worked very well in both windows(Windows 7 and Windows 8.1) and Linux(Ubuntu) systems.
4|Its compact, easy to install and configure. Can be used for both mac and pc
4|I upgraded from a Samsung Galaxy S3 to a Samsung Galaxy S4. I do like the features on the S4 as they are better than the features on the S3. I'm still getting used to the phone but all in all I do like it.
5|The product works extremely well!! I am very satisfied with my purchase.
5|Great buy better price. Must have for all your back up needs.
5|Slim size makes it very nice to use anywhere. No set up needed when used for a Mac.
5|We installed the drive and we use it as a back-up disk. Once installed, we do not have to think about it. The drive is out of the way and takes up very little space. It always works. The price per GB was good. What more can you expect from a hard drive?
4|This drive installed easily (recognized by windows upon plugging into USB) and setup quickly. In my first attempt to backup files, it copied about half of the different folders and stopped the rest. I left if overnight since it was estimated at several hours, so tried again with remaining files in the morning and it worked fine.
3|it is okay however, I wanted something to backup my photos on from an older Mac. Wish someone would make a external drive for an older Mac.
4|I bought a total of 8 to store various marketing info . These have proved to be very reliable!
5|I couldn't do without it. I do a lot of video editing and that requires a lot of data space.
5|This is a great product. Small in size and big in memory. Just plug it in and your good to go. It is compatible for mac or pc, and it comes with the USB cord too.
4|This Seagate external hardrive worked wonderfully. I have a Mac, it works easily with time machine. My only draw back was that I also have an IPad. I wanted something that I could also back up and also access some things I didn't want to save into my Ipad since it has limited storage capabilities. But the Seagate is lite weight and great for on the go if you have a laptop. Good produxt
5|Haven't had long, but great so far. Easy set up &amp;amp; use; very compact; solid build. Transfer speed dependent on age of PC backing up - good for current models.
5|I love this product, this is what I use as a professional photographer to back up and store photos and video. I can always rely on this product and how easy it is to use. Also it stores very easily being so sleek and slim.
5|Easy to install and use for beginners. Enough room for all family needs
5|Great slim external hard drive for the money. Highly recommend.
5|I like it, good value, easy to use, light, portable ,alot of storage space
5|Had to format this to work with Mac but once I did it works great.
4|Very easy to use - could use a longer cord. nice!!
4|Not a whole lot to write about this. But for the price you are getting a great external hd. Relatively slim and light.
5|Excellent product if you want to back up lots of pictures.
5|Thie hard drive is a smart, professional design. It's quiet, doesn't overheat and is relatively small. Transfer speeds on both PC and Mac were fast, the only downside is you can find similar models online for a little cheaper.
4|Seems to be working fine. Plan to down load and review movies in the next 30 days.
5|Just installed. Let's see how it works. Hopefully it dont crash.
5|Compact design, easy to use/install, a lot of storage!
5|Prices for external hard drives have come down a bit, and I love that it's "flash" and there's no "platter" and no moving parts! (Yeah, I've lost lots of stuff due to the old fashioned ones)
5|Small, lots of storage space, and a fantastic price. Very happy.
5|Just plugged into PC was ready to go, no lengthy installation required
5|It's my fist time using Seagate. However it is very easy to use and it works both on Mac and windows.
5|Great amount of memory and fast transfer speeds. I use it to store tv shows and movies that I connect and play through the television.
5|Very pleased with the size of product. Won't be able to tell how good it is till years down the road, but right now it's great.
5|I have the piece of mind that my data is being backed up
5|This product has been a good purchase. Lots of storage for a reasonable price. NO RAGRETS.
4|I liked that it feels like SDD not an HDD, really it is fast like a thumb drive!
5|I would recommend this device to anyone who would like to free up space on their computer without losing valuable data.
3|This was very completed to download my pictures- my professional photographer and tech experienced son-in-law worked long and hard &amp;amp; had to use his own Apple computer- I have no idea how it will go in the future with my PC.
5|Very Good HD for backing up computer for college student, to protect files and programs...
5|Great storage device for the money. Compatiable for both Mac and PC. Just plug and use.
4|too busy to use. I always need help with new technology and waiting for grandson to help,
5|Just received a Windows 8 system from work and I use this to backup the system. I simply connected it and off it went. Backups have been running since the day it was plugged in.
5|This thing holds all my movies and more it's great love it
5|Works great, havent had any issues with it!!!!!!!!!
5|I am not very computer savy. Was a little confusing to re-load my computer after upgrading the operating system but once I figured it out it was pretty easy
4|bought to hold movie of our wedding. still waiting for final video. should work well
5|Drive is USB 3.0 Plug and Play Great value for $$$
4|Exactly what I needed and also easy to carry with on the go.
5|Seagate slim is alway a great product and reliable. You will not regret this item
5|I love it works perfectly holds all my music and search
5|The hard drive is the best hard drive I have ever seen!!
5|This backup drive is perfect for a student looking for storage.
5|I needed a backup solution for my new laptop and this was exactly what I wanted - compact, easy to set up and fast execution!
5|I use this hard drive and the software that came with it to keep my MAC backed up all the time automatically. It is a wonderful secure feeling to know that everything is backed up and I will never lose my work or have my system corrupted.
3|Served my purpose, which was to back up photos while in the field.
4|lOT OF STOREAGE SPACE FOR THE MONEY.A LITTLE TOUGH TO GET WORKING WITH AN OLDER PC.
5|Like to be able to keep photos in more then one place....just in case. This is easy solution .
1|Exactly two weeks after I purchased this product it stopped working! I could not retrieve my documents and all the work I'd done during this time. I refused to pay $500 for Seagate to retrieve my documents when it was lost due to nothing I'd done, but a defective product It does not make sense to pay less than $100 for a product, but then to pay $500 to get your lost information I WOULD NOT RECOMMEND SEAGATE TO MY DOG!
5|Excellent product. Perfect size, fast and reliable. I use backup and restore user data migrating PCs
4|overall worth it for external storage.good avlue .
4|Glad we purchased it. Instead of putting things on Discs or gig sticks.
4|I haven't tried a restore yet, so I cannot give it an excellent for performance yet.
5|This product gets the job done and might be the best on the market
4|It's light and small and very portable. I like it because it's 1 tb
5|Small, compact, easy to use and travel with laptop. Makes for lightweight, functional traveling photojournalism archive. Versatile. Camera, laptop, ext hard drive all easy to carry in travel jacket pockets.
4|Good device in general. Good relationship price vs functionality
4|Great gift and price. My Daughter in law loves it.
4|It would be better to have something little small and portable like passport.
5|This is an outstanding product. Easy to use, works as advertised, no installation problems, works well with encryption, it's fast, the case is durable - you could stand on it and it wouldn't break; it's static-proof. I've had one for years now and I bought another one.
5|bought for my teenage son to download all GoPro videos. Super easy to set up and use.
5|So so so important to back up. Never take a chance, this product is easy and reliable.
4|I used this to replace a Western Digital 1TB HDD. The WD drive was ok, but needed an external power supply and was a little noisy on startup and disk access. The Seagate drive is much smaller and easy to setup. Operation has been flawless so far. Speed is good. Overall, I'd rate this as a step up from the WD drive.
5|For the price this is a great storage unit in a small package.
5|Got this at a very reasonable price. Pretty much plug in and it is user friendly.
4|This product came highly recommended by our IT man
5|Needed a slim portable drive and this fit the bill.
5|This is by far the best external hard drive I've used. It's small and extremely portable (I stick it in the case with my laptop). Plus the design is awesome.
5|I bought the drive to use as a plug and play device, for storing and napping up files. Transfer speed it outstanding on USB 3.0. Overall a great product for a good price. The only thing I can find to complain about is the data cable that comes with it is a little short. Other than that... great plug and play drive!
5|Great to use this product. It's essential these days to backup your data and hard drive .
5|Very easy to use and install. I will recommend this product.
5|Very portable and fast transfer rate. I transferred a number of photo from vacation and the hard drive was about to do it fairly fast.
5|purchased for personal pc backup. USB 3.0 is fast. Have not used the included backup software yet.
4|it was easy to install and set up which is great for me. it oes what i need for it
4|Easy to use and is very slim! The overall simplicity is great and would recommend to anyone!
5|easy to use and compatible with MAC. Small compact and portable
4|easy of install was great. Up and running with no problem. Feel secure knowing I have a back up
5|First of all I really appreciate best busy price matching. It makes shopping there so much better to know you can get competitive prices in our age of the modern shopper. The drive is great works on Mac and PC and was easy to set up. I am satisfied with the build quality and found it to be a great product
4|Great product. Works for my needs, portable, very strong casing.
5|Great for keeping pictures all in 1 place &amp;amp; easy acess
5|These hard drives are a perfect size and not a bad price for when you wanna back up your files.
5|It is an amazing hard drive. It is very small, light and portable for it's size.
5|It is a great hard drive. It is also very slim and portable for it's size. Along with the great price for a 1TB of storage.
5|I bought this after my old Seagate TB drive stopped being recognized by my computer... My fear was everything from my old HDD was gone so I bought this to have a professional service move everything from old to new HDD.... BUUUUT, this came with a trial of a Seagate Recovery program. It found all the files from my old drive and although it was a trial version, I could see it was going to work. So for $99 more I got a recovery program forever and also saved all my work and music and backups from my old drive. I highly recommend these drives for portability, stability and the cool Recovery software. Oh yeah! And the price!
4|So far I had no issues yet, it has been perfectly working
5|Downloaded all my pictures and fantastic music!!! Look at several hard drives and picked this one,its portable and simply to use,also price was great!!!
5|The seagate is very good I recommend this product also this saw gate is very fast
5|Love this product. Also love the fact that the adaptor cord works with my note 3 :)
5|The Seagate external hard drive is excellent to use for backing up everything you have.
5|Small in size big in capacity and easy to formatted.
4|I like that it can store lots of memory and fits my mac!
4|Works great! No trouble. Just got it so not sure how good it is for lasting but I'll find out.
1|This external hard drive turned into a brick or bodecker in less than a month. Don't waste your money. The WD My Passports are sturdy and long lasting.
5|I bought this device when my WD Element external drive stoppe working for some unknown reason. Great backup deivice.
4|This product has been very easy for me to use. I like that the set up wasn't complicated and that this product is compatible with both PC's and Mac's.
5|I recommend this because it stores so many videos and saves memory chips.
5|it freed up my computer of all my pics and my computer started running faster
5|It's great that it can be used with both PC &amp;amp; MAC.
5|Small but powerful. Safe and secure way to keep those items safe and accessable at all times.
5|Very easy to use and extremely light. Easy installation for a non computer Geek.
4|Excellent easy to use portable 1TB Drive. Compact, goes anywhere, USB3, Great price at time of purchase.
4|I like the small size, and it was pretty easy to install.
5|Great product and its compact for easy storage. Thanks
5|It really good product ever I had! I will recommended to my all friends and family.
4|Hey, it's decent. Works fine, does what I bought it for and that was for extra drive space for my Xbox One that now allows the use of an external hard drive. Over the moon about it? Not really, but it's probably great for the laptop it was intended for...
5|I purchased this for my vast collection of family pictures, over 84,000 and I wanted to back them all up. This was perfect.
5|Reliable, cheap, light and easy to use. The purpose for me was getting something light and small to carry when traveling.
5|small, fast, easy to carry and use. No better description for this device. You arr going to love it, to make your back up, or add movies/films to it and plug on your smart tv. You can travel and carry it on your backpack without thinking about the power source
5|I bought this to back up Windows, before switching to Linux. I now do my Linux backups on it, plus I've saved my videos and pix, and have plenty of room on the 1TB drive.
4|This back up drive was simple to set up and load. It works with a PC or Mac without difficulty. The fact that it is small and compact is both good since it is easy to store and not so good since it will be easy to lose. I was able to organize all my documents, folders and music which easily fit on this drive with plenty of room to spare.
5|It was on my part about having a sec to understand how to use one since this was my first time owning one. I am amazed at how much this little thing can store. And I love the portability of it. Also got one as a gift for a family member and she loves it.
5|great little hard drive. good capacity. easy to use and install.
5|Other than the cloud, I wanted to be sure both text files and pictures we safe. This external storage was just what I needed. Simple, easy directions, automatic additions of material. Past performance with another Seagate was very successful. It just sat there off to the side and did its thing with regular backups. I recommend it for beginners on up.
4|Slim design looks good and run smooth, Unbeatable price!!!!!!!!!
5|superb size ..metallic design ....great price ....totally worth it
5|I needed a disc backup for saving what I had recorded on my dvr and it worked like a charm. Just plugged it in. Tons of storage space at a low price.
5|Have the external hard drive to back up automatically once a week.
5|Hard drive backed up all my data and there is enough memory
5|Happy Happy Happy. Works great. Easy to use ect ect
5|This was so simple to use. Just plugged it in and I was ready to go. Has tons of storage space. I know that it lists the storage but when I moved video clips and music too it, I was surprised at how little of the memory I actually used.
4|When I first connected it to my computer, it didn't automatically run the program, and actually took quite a bit of time to get it to "open" to begin installation. Total start to finish time was about 9 hours for approximately 5mb of data that I wanted to copy, but total I ended up with about 30mb. It's difficult to just select a specific component, so you have to save massively larger files to make sure you are copying what you really want. The time required may be faster for others, as my computer was on its last leg to begin with- the fan was broken and I had to keep the laptop on an a/c vent the entire time, though it did overheat once and I had to start over from the beginning. This product (on my specific computer) was a hassle and based on my experience I would suggest paying the extra money for a more user friendly device. All in all, I saved all my data (and then some) for under $80, so I guess I can't complain much.
5|Just what I needed to back up the large music/movie files I have, along with documents.
5|Needed to back-up my iMac data that also includes some Windows programs. This was effortless.
5|This external hard drive is much better than having to use lots of flash drives to store my pictures. I wish I had bought it a long time ago.
5|This compact device is a good size without feeling fragile. I do not have any complaints about the transfer speed. The cable that comes with it is about a foot long.
5|This terabyte external hard drive could not be simpler to set up and use. It is highly compact so easy to travel with.
5|I bought this to use with my laptop because of the design and the fact that it doesn't need power supply. So it was a great purchase.
4|It is a nice and small heard disk...Easy to use and serves the purpose
5|Easy to install, works great. Nothing more to say.
4|I bought this for transferring my pc info to my mac, thought it would be easy enough to just plug it in to the pc and then move it over to the mac without formatting. I guess I needed to because its not opening the files on my mac. Obviously I should have read the instructions first. Otherwise its all good.
4|Stored dozens and dozens of movies for our long trip. Kept my son quiet and happy.
5|This product is 1TB. For the price it was hard to pass up. Comes in great for backing up important files at work.
5|This is the second one I've bought because I filled up my first one. This is my go to brand for hardrives its portable and easy to use. All you do is plug it in to your computer and its ready to use in less than a minute.
5|bought as a backup for my backups. purchased because same brand and cables as other external HD. cables interchangable. worked perfect and was ecomomical
4|Wanted a way to back up a Macbook Pro easily and and have a good price point. This has hit the mark. Very happy with my purchase.
4|Hard drive was at a great price. It is reliable and dependable for our use.
5|very pleased with the product... easy to install, use, and set up as extra drive. I would recommend to others interested in an external drive.
4|It stored data from my mac. Works fine. It was a little pricey.
5|This is exactly what we needed to back up our computers.
5|Slim and trim with easy startup and lots of storage--just what I wanted. I use it to store photos and videos to use on my laptops.
4|It has been a life saver for me and it is nice and small and doesn't take up a lot of space.
5|I would buy it again. I needed more memory for my games.
5|This device is great for an automatic backup. It is small and discreet, yet plenty of storage.
5|This is awesome HDD drive with USB 3.0 is very fast.
5|After purchasing from the store I had no problems installing the device. Brings a sense of security knowing that my important files are backed up.
5|Easy to install and just keeps on working with little maintenance Very easy to take with you as well
4|Good way to back up your stuff. Installation was fairly easy.
4|The Seagete external drive is very simple and easy to use. It wasn't complicate to install. We use it as a system back-up. Thankfully, we haven't had to use it to recover data from a crash. So we don't know how it will perform in a recovery situation. The USB cord appears to be product specific. Don't lose it or break the cord. I wish I didn't need a product specific cord for every device. You would think we could have a universal standard like USB on both ends.
5|I bought this for Music and Movies, it work great and the plug and play was a plus. For the price I couldn't have made a better choice!!!!!
5|Nice small drive that works as advertised. Very satisfied.
5|i WAS NEEDING A SMALL BACKUP MDEVICE AND THIS ONE WAS SMALL AND HAD A LARGE MEMORY
5|This portable hard drive has allowed me to back up my entire collection of audiobooks, 250+, all of my playlists and songs and my movies. It has given me peace of mind that if anything happens to my laptop, I will have all of my most important information safely saved somewhere.
5|Worked great right out of the box. Easy to use and easy to take with you. Small size with easy connectivity and setup. Love it.
4|Had an issue with transferring a large amount of files and the hard drive timing out and resetting itself. If I limited the number of files transfer was fast and flawless.
5|Easy to use, setup and travel with external drive with lots of storage available.
5|Easy set up. Reasonably priced. Settings allow automatic back up.
5|I bought this for my galaxy s5 and it works great for backing up movies and photos
5|Worked right out of the just as advertised, like how compact it is.
5|Easy to use, carry .... Good for transfer data....
5|Love that it's easy to use for set up and it is portable for a person on the go
4|what's not to like it is small quiet and easy to use. would buy another.
5|Good external drive that is easy to set up on the MacBook.
5|I have mostly pictures that can't be replaced on my computer and have been fortunate to never have had a computer crash. I decided it was time to stop taking chances. I was concerned that it would be hard to back things up and expected a bulky storage unit. Not so with this one and it is easy to take with you if you want to.
5|Quick download of data from old computer, and quick transfer to new computer
4|Very easy to use and reliable. Came with plenty of instructions unlike some other devices on the market.
5|Plug and play, no external power source required to use
5|Love the drag/drop feature for ease of use. Prob get another since i have so many pics n audio files. Very ez to use once you get it going.
5|I am really happy with this Seagate external hard drive. I suggest if someone needs external hard drive buy it hopely.
5|I was concerned that I would not know how to use this back up/eternal hard drive - it was very easy to set it up. I do not have it backing up continuously - I plug it in to the laptop once a week, it finds any new information/files that have changed and just backs that up - it is so quick. It is light weight and small I love it
5|Great performance to price ratio; of course the size is excellent to carry around.
5|I choose this hard.drive to transfer everything from my phone and computer to one location. I did this in order to free up space on my computer and phone. Worked just fine with no issues. Plenty of space included and left over.
5|Nice smalls physical size with large storage capacity
4|I needed a cheap way to move half a T by USB on a late eve job. Did the trick for a low price in a pinch. I'll keep using it when there is not a time crunch.
5|We definitely needed a back-up system for our office files and pictures of family. I think this was a great solution.
4|It's a fantastic little hard drive, i got it to go w/ my router that has a 3.0 usb port on the back for network storage.
4|GOOD PRODUCT EASY TO USE, SMALL AND PRACTIC I IUSE MULTIMEDIA AND PICS
4|Needed a drive for coping from an old computer th I should worked great.
4|Bought this one for my bro and he loved it. Its not too big or too small for backing up files at home.. easy to use and light to carry
5|Great external USB portable hard drive, PC/Mac compatible without re-formating, very compact and light, reliable
5|Have used the product once. First time that I have used something like this for my back up. If I can do it, anyone can do di.
5|Great product. Used it to back up my old desktop that has windows XP... Will be upgrading to windows 7 or 8.
5|Love being able to select a different channel for I-phone,and computer so my internet doesn't slow down when both are being used.
4|Works just fine. Worked right out of the box. No issues.
4|This drive is small and portable. I got it for $60 and feel it was a great deal. The slower spindle speed is offset by the density of the smaller platter; making this a good performer. The only downside is the casing/housing/ It's aluminum, so it's prone to show scratches. Also, be careful not to knock it over or drop it while the drive is spinning, not much protection from that and could kill the drive.
5|You just plug it in and start going. It's that simple. I was so excited to get this. With all the photos I had I had loaded down my computer. This was a much needed item. Really freed up my computer speed.
5|My son picked it out; it meets his needs for college and he has no complaints.
5|I bought this hard drive to back up my personal computer, it works great and I have enough space for all my music and movier
5|Love that I don't need power. The USB plugs right into computer and ready to search files.
5|Very lightweight &amp;amp; durable, especially for the amount of data it holds. I was able to backup two computer internal harddrives with this one fit-in-my-pocket device. I am able to access my files in lightning speed. Highly recommend this hard drive.
3|It would have been more helpful if it had clearer instructions on how to back up multiple times and to view that back up really occurred. It is good for a portable and compact back up system. The price is good and it is compatible with a PC.
4|Moving from one job to another i purchased this to transfer files to my new computer. If it's just documents it has more than enough room. Not a bad price for the product line and seems to be good quality wise. Thumbs up.
4|Have not needed to restore any files yet so cannot give a fair evaluation of the performance. Was easy to use and store wanted files.
5|Needed to move a lot of data in a small amount of time and this device handled it perfectly.
5|Bought this HDD to store all my digital copies of movies to stream while connected to my router. You have to format it to work on a Mac, but that takes all of 20 seconds. Got it on sale for $70.
5|great value for my money, I get all my pictures and videos backed up
4|Again, this was a purchase for my wife. She had just gotten a apple macbook air and she needed more space for her music and files. This seems to work perfectly for her.
5|This was my first compact external HDD -- I was amazed at the speed and storage capabilities.
5|This drive is very portable since it is small and lite. It also is somewhat faster than other Seagate drives I currently own. Overall I am pleased with my choice to purchase the Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB 3.0/2.0 Portable Hard Drive.
5|This is a great product for someone on the go. Its portable physical size but powerful space makes it a perfect pick for the business professional.
3|very fast, easy to handle, durable and valuable product
5|The Seagate 1TB portable USB hard drive is perfect for my needs, and at a great price compared to other brands.
5|The external hard drive is so easy to use. Just plug it in and start saving or backing up files!
5|The Backup Plus Slim Hard Drive is the easiest to use and very convenient to store all my pictures and files. So compact that I can take it in my purse.
5|Huge storage capacity in a very small package, easily fits in my suit jacket pocket.
5|Good quality and very essential storage device, very reliable.
5|Works great out of the box on my Mac. I didn't have to install any drivers or additional software.
5|Great product at a great price. Superfast USB3 makes a big difference over USB2, and just plug it in and you're good to go.
5|I love it! I can back up my photos, music, apps with no problem.
5|Great external hard drive. Easy to use and it gets the job done
5|This portable hard drive is small in size but large in capacity.
5|I plugged it in and it worked right away with no installation of drivers, etc. The speed of the drive is also good. Very satisfied.
5|This external drive is lightweight, easy to carry, and user-friendly
4|Slim, decently fast, and compatible with Pc &amp;amp; Mac without reformatting.
5|I had a good experience. The customer service was good, the experience was good and I was well taken care of.
5|This external drive is easy to install and use. Installed to backup a small business server with 25 users.
5|easy to set up, shows on computer what is going on,
5|Great easy to use backup for my mac book pro. Also purchased one for my hp laptop.
5|Bought this for my fiancé and she loves it. Works well and very easy to use.
5|I purchased this to create a system image in case of computer crash so I could be up and running with a new computer rapidly. It was quick and easy to set up and accomplish my goal.
5|Overall a good device for file transfer or backup which was the intended purpose of my purchase
5|My friend who works at the King of Prussia store, Frank Raffaele, recommended the seagate brand because they have great reviews and quality backup. My backup was flawless and I feel very secure.
5|Needed an external hard drive that would work with USB 2.0 with various older version of Windows (XP, Vista, ect.). Worked on all my computers without any issues. Have always had good luck with Seagate drives.
5|I was surprised, very easy to use and down loaded fast! It is convenient! I freed up 5 GB on my PC!
5|I bought this for my mother in law and she loved it. I always get Seagate because they have been very reliable.
5|I work for a company that, when they give you a new computer, doesn't provide any way to move data from the old one to the new one. This device made it very easy to transfer 100s of GB.
5|The Seagate portable hard drive provided me with a simple device to back-up my computer. Would recommend to anyone.
4|good buy. i needed a fast way to backup files and this was a good deal.
5|A VERY PORTABLE DEVICE, THAT I USE FOR BACKING UP MY PICTURES!!
5|bought this to back up my work computer a couple of months ago. it works great so far, no noticeable flaws. easy to set up, easy to use, easy (and fast) to back up. i don't know how much of a deal it is in price comparison to similar devices, but i'm very pleased with this one.
5|I got this portable drive to alternate my work Virtual PC in VMWare workstation back and forth between my Surface Pro 2 tablet and my pc that I usually use for connecting to work. So far it's been very reliable and quite fast using both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0. I do with it were like some of the other seagate drives where you could swap out the interface module. My laptop has eSATA and my Surface Pro 2 has USB3.0. Be nice to have high speed on both machines. So far tho, very reliable, quiet and haven't needed external power.
4|The unit is very easy to set up with a computer. It was nearly what I would call a plug and play.
5|If you catch this HD on sale pick it up and easy to use and fast! I just use this HD to transfer pictures and work on pictures on location!
5|I connected the device to my laptop and right away I was able to back up all my files. The size it's so convenient and very practical to travel with- So far I have no complaints!
4|I do a lot of work with video and Photoshop, so I'm always in need of storage. This seemed like a good value for the money. After I deleted the pre-installed software, I was good to go.
5|Was the perfect device to store and transport large files!
5|I would recommend this product for someone who needs lots of storage and ease of use.
5|Easy to use and with a full terabyte, it has plenty of storage. I use it mainly to keep all my pictures handy when I visit.
5|Got it home and it hooked up easy, along with being a good price, I am happy
5|These are my go to drives! Easy setup and the price is always right!
5|I'm not a fan of bus-powered devices, but this one works nicely for transferring files quickly and easily via USB 3.0
4|The external hard drive performs as it should. I works really fast, doesn't heat up much, and is ready to go out of the box - what you expect from a hard drive. Only problem - not really a major one - is the cable. It is unique for Seagate so if you lose it or something happens, you have to get it from them. You can't just use a std USB or Mini-USB for connect to the Hard Drive.
5|I just needed something simple to backup my computer and this did the trick. No regrets.
5|Very easy to use as back-up storage. Literally, you just plug up and back up. It's fantastic!
4|Bought this external hard drive for work to backup estimating and construction document data. At one terabyte I don't think I will ever max it out but being very busy at work and having a lot of data to backup it still may take a while. it's very light to carry in a backpack and extremely easy to use.
5|the drive is fast and my backups are quick. Really like that part of it. The cost was great, seems easy to use, etc.
5|Use it for backing up files. Has worked as advertised and without any issue. Would recommend it.
5|Easy to carrie, good price and capacity to atorare information.
4|Though it was easy to install the transfer took a very LNG time to finish. It would be nice to be able to easily move only select files rather than the entire computer.
4|Works great with windows 8. Easy to install. Not so easy with vista. Computer locks up while trying to backup files. Even if you drag &amp;amp; drop files to the drive it locks the computer up. Spent hours on the web looking for fixes but no luck.
4|Good value -- some problems with software update --works as advertised
4|Not too much to say about this product. I was worried it would work with my Linux distribution but I've had no problems connecting to it from Xubuntu. Just plugged it in and it was ready to go. No software to install or anything like that. Nothing complicated about it. Plus it is small and unobtrusive.
5|Feel great to have it as it saves my important data. Do not have to worry about loosing essential works on PC. The price is also reasonable.
5|This is very easy to use and has a ton of space. Great product
5|I bought this to back up files, it works as designed. Price for storage is better than average.
5|I love this harddrive. It is compact, lightweight, runs cool and quiet and offers lots of storage for $75!
5|Had one previously and passed it on to my son to get myself a bigger size. I love it
4|It is difficult to give a review on a product I've only had a few weeks. So far it works as expected. Time will tell if it is a reliable product.
5|I love the fact that it will automatly back up new things
5|Easy set up. Easy back up and file transfer. Was happy that my Mac and PC both recognized it.
5|Bought for dj music... Great size to dump thousands of songs and small /.easy to pack and carry
4|I shoot lots of videos and photos, this device is able to store all of my precious memories. I am to use it on both mac and PC.
5|I think the WD HD is great. The quality and price are unmatched. I will buy seveal dozen of them. They priced them just right.
5|Was looking for something portable to use between work and home and this fit the bill.
5|This is a nice compact 1Tb hard drive that appears to be very rugged. It's capacity and small size make it quite useful for transferring large video files with a minimal shipping charge. The NTFS format accepts larger files (more than the 4Mb of FAT32), and can be read by Macs (and written to with 3rd party software such as Tuxera). Or, the drive can be reformatted in HFS+ format for use with Macs. This is now my drive of choice for portability.
4|This is a good reliable hard drive with lots of storage for all your files
5|good backup drive and to store pics and other large files when PC hard drive getting too full; works as intended.
5|it is a good back up drive.it is easy to use and put stuff on there
3|Bought this to replace a Western Digital drive that has been giving me trouble from the start. I hook this one up and it says to insert the installation disk... it didn't come with one. The box just had the drive and the cord in it. Not sure how I am supposed to install the Seagate Dashboard when it keeps giving an error message. Frustrating. Instead of getting more frustrated, I am just using it as a hard drive rather than a synced back up.
5|My wife was getting ready for a long trip and wanted to take photos to share with friends and family and entertainment for the kids without having to drag a laptop along. This was the perfect solution.
4|Very pleased with the drive; simply to install and configure.
5|I've got 3 of these in use that range from 3 years old to current. They just keep performing! With USB3.0 they are super fast and always ready to work for me. I do a lot of photography in family photo archiving and preservation, other commercial imagery, and personal nature photography. I haven't had one fail me yet or even give a hint of reduced performance. I'll quit using them when they fail to serve me consistently.
5|This external drive is really easy to use and install, but the install for registration part was acting goofy for a week or so. May have needed an update on their part and they fixed it? My roommate had no problems using it on his computer to transfer over music and tv shows on it for me to use.
5|Even though it says for PC or Mac, you still have to format it, but it only takes about two minutes. orks great with my iMac (late 2012). Backed up my files in about 30 minutes. Would be even better if it had a case.
5|I've had no issues with this product. It works as a backup seamlessly in the background after being set up. It also holds lots of other data. Cord supplied is kind of short, but not a deal breaker.
5|Basically plug-and-play... plenty of storage in a very small package. Highly recommended for any file storage needs.
5|I have purchased multiple Seagate backup storage devices over the years. Very easy to use.
4|Easily backed up a hard drive prior to upgrading the PC. I will want to restore individual folders and files. I've not found a way to do that from the full backup, so I think I'll have to create separate backups for the things I want to restore after completing the upgrade. I'll probably need to follow that strategy for future backups.
5|Extremely easy to use and very slim external drive, with great storage capacity.
4|Great for backing up files and peace of mind to have the files backed up in case something happened to the CPU
5|Compact size, easy to use great space light weight!
5|Excellent drive for the price. Works like a champ on my laptop and works just as well on my Macbook. Very happy!!
5|I love this item. It was easy to use. you just plug into your PC and your ready to go. I didn't need to install anything on my PC. Very simple and basic.
5|I was looking for a reliable backup drive at a reasonable price and this product fit the bill quite well
5|I love this because of the ease of use and the price was great.
4|I needed to replace a drive that did not survive a fall. I like the rugged metal casing for this drive and it works great right out of the box for a mac. I was disappointed that it has a connector that is not universal and could be more difficult to find if it needs replacing.
5|Great product. It was super easy to use and set up once I got home. I didn't have any problems with this device.
4|I would help if the User Guide was written by a person whose first language was American English.
5|Very happy with this unit - just installed it and never have to worry.
3|Its great for the price and the size but just to get started you have to spend about 15 minutes installing software in order to use the drive. I haven't had to do this for previous drives. They were just plug and play.
5|Plugged into a USB port and it was up and running within minutes. Completely compatible with Mac and Time Machine. Nice slim design.
5|The wife needed a backup and a lot of room. Got this for her and it just plugged and played. It's small enough to carry when she needs to, but does everything it's supposed to do.
4|This external storage device is small, light and good looking. It looks like a cell phone charging on a computer. It's worked well for what I needed.
4|Very light and compact, easy to install or use, just plug and play. Did not bother with accompanying software, works in minutes
5|This was recommended by the sales associate and it turned out to be a great product.
4|It is just what I expected a lot of room for portable storage
5|I bought this to replace my ancient firewire hard drive, and I couldn't be more thrilled with how fast my files/pictures transfer. Love the form factor!
5|Love the size and color of the seagate 1 tb usb drive
5|THE SEAGATE EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE IS EASY TO INSTALL...BASICALLY PLUG AND PLAY. FAST BACKUP OF ALL OF YOUR DATA...AND 1 TB IN SUCH A SMALL PACKAGE..AND AT SUCH A LOW COST. GREAT DEAL
5|Works very well once it was reformatted for the Mac. Compact, light weight and thin. Very quiet. Have had it for a few weeks now with no issues.
5|Easy to set up even a kid can do it. A lot of storage for your files. I am not a computer person but this product is excellent.
4|This is a great little drive to use for backing up data on the go.
4|it did everything package said it would. I was very pleased with the performance of the product. good value.
5|Would have preferred silver. Slim. 1TB External USB! I have a lot of photos and documents and the storage is great. The backup is portable and about the size of a smartphone! Setup was not complicated and I am grateful for that! I will be purchasing another for a family member as a gift!
5|Great little drive, nice speed even on USB 2.0 would be nice it is was a micro USB
4|Bought it to store sewing designs on to clear off PC and it is perfect and easy to use
5|You won't loose your pictures nor your music. Some stuff just can't be replaced once it's gone. With Seagate Backup Plus. You don't have to worry. It is easy to install.
5|Fast, well priced, USB 3.0... 1 TB of storage. Great value and from a trusted brand.
5|We need to keep a back up of everything, and this works great!
5|bought this to have somewhere else to store my pictures other then the computer itself. works as described, no complaints.
5|I love the Seagate backup drives because they are so easy to use and keep files up to date without any hassel
4|Easy to use. Lightweight, making it portable and easy to carry in bag without taking up a great deal of room. Only disadvantage is if you lose the cable, the connection for the unit is not a traditional micro USB connection. So to ensure I don't lose it, I just keep cable plugged into device.
5|This was easy to install, but the dashboard is a little weird and hard to understand. It's compatible with both mac and a PC.
5|I bought this hard drive because it was on-sale. It is very easy to install &amp;amp; use. I use this for my job and save all my files on my computer &amp;amp; portable hard drive to prevent any hiccups. So far this hard drive is PERFECT!!
4|Drive is easy to use and no fuzz when going back and forth between Mac and PC. Light and not bulky, easily fits in most messenger back pockets.
5|This is a great buy for the price. No problems hooking into my iMac. Works like a charm.
5|Its a great product to have so that your computer doesn't get bogged down with memory issues.
5|Very useful, small, portable easy to use hard drive, I have no regrets buying this product, would definitely recommend to anyone looking for a nice portable hard drive.
4|My daughter's lap top had to be restored to original because of problems. We used the external backup drive to transfer all of her personal files to before we restored her computer. It worked great.
5|using it to back up files and documents on old outdated computer and transferring them to new laptop. simple to use and does the job for which it was intended. even a non-techy can do it
4|I found no problems with installation, and a lot of information could be stored, but it did not have the drag and drop ease of memory sticks.
5|I love item it is easy to save documents that you're working on.
5|Can't go wrong with this drive. Price is fine as well. Bought 8 of them at once; all worked well.
5|It's perfect size. Nice and slim, quiet as well. With certain items like using it with an iPad you would need a power source for it, but that should be common sense. Awesome is what it is.
4|Easy to install. Good documentation. Operation is seamless.
5|Does exactly what it should, store large amounts of files and be portable. It's light, fast, and as simple as plug and use.
5|Go for the larger back up (1TB) worth the money. Surprise how much stuff you need to back up.
4|A great hd for the price if you catch it on sale. It is sometimes glitchy if you save multiple large files at one time.
5|I use this drive as a Time Machine backup for my Mac Mini. I just leave it plugged in all the time and let it do it's thing. So far so good.
4|Great for people looking for their first external. Has an app that helps you manage the device better on top of a sleave In case your a clutz.
5|I give this product a A+ highly recommend, fast and reliable well worth the money.
5|Plenty of space left after backing up computer, used primarily to store gaming software.
4|I needed some thing to back up my computer. This has lots of storage on it. So I can back up things on my other computer too. It also puts a icon on your desk top so it easy to access it. I would recommend this to any one. You need to back up your pc incase your computer crashes.
4|Great space and easy to use to back up files plug and play on the go.
5|Easy to set up an a good price for what you get. Great value with a quick learning curve. Love it!
5|This external hardware is very compact sleek and easy to use and is great to carry anywhere. The quality of files loaded into it shows beautifully. I have tried others but I prefer to use Seagate for its ease of use. I would like to see the price go down a bit. I still think the Seagate is one of the popular brands to choose overall. Satisfied customer still.
5|Great little portable drive. Plenty of space for a good price. Not as fast as I thought tho I'm not using the USB 3.0 so I'm sure that slows it down. I don't use the dashboard as I just drag &amp;amp; drop files so I cannot comment on that. The cable is short, not a problem for me but others might like a longer one. Very quiet compared to my other older drive.
5|If you buy make sure use it properly always work .
5|When I received the Seagate back up external drive I did not realize how easy it was to back up my entire computer...
5|ease of use and great durability - I use one as a back up and one as my portable - I wish more manufacures made reliable products.
5|This drive was purchased to store files for our Homeowner's Association. The computer that came with the job was a dinosaur, so I moved the files to this little baby and plugged it in to my newer, faster computer. Works like a charm. Would definitely buy more of these, and probably will!
4|I had simular unit and used it for a long time. Whenit was time to choose a new one I knew I wanted the same type.
5|This external hard drive does what it's supposed to do! Great design and a cool little LED light when it's plugged in.
5|Great price for the 1TB capacity, slim profile, solid case. I wish it used a standard connector/cable type.
5|Would recommend to anyone . Works perfectly great buy.
5|I haven't yet use this product. But my techie recommended it. It looks to be great and he promises he'll do the job.
5|This is a great back up mechanism . I did have to call customer service, but they were very helpful and in minutes, I was saving my files...
4|Very good product. Satisfied so far. Good for data storage
5|I picked this up when it was on sale for $69 and saved $20. I had to get a new one because my 8+ year old Western Digital 250GB My Book bit the dust.
5|this was much easier to use than my old one and it remains to be seen if it will last longer than my old one. my old one was a desktop
5|I wanted something that could store a good amount of data for a project without breaking the bank and this fit the need. Product was easy to unpack and install and use. Unlike other companies, Seagate didn't need attempt to install any of the included software on my computer which I appreciated.
5|I purchased the hard drive because I needed to back up my pc data and pics. It also gave me a chance to free lots of memory on my pc hard drive. I like its dimensions which make it perfect for my purse and I carry it with me to work.
5|Fast enough hard drive for what I use it for, which is mostly media files. Compact and seems well made. No complaints so far
4|Was needing a high capacity portable drive and found this on sale... ended up getting 2!
5|Just needed additional mobile storage for pictures . This item woks perfectly for my needs.
4|I bought this drive for my Macbook Pro. I still have to use PC's at work so being able to split the drive is great . I also like the fact that it's smaller than my previous Seagate drive, but has way more memory. Once the drives are split, you cant use time capsule backup your Mac. But the regular backup is great, it also backs up your phone also.
4|The seagate external hardrive is perfect for backing up your documents and pictures from your personal computer. Also it comes with a guide for an easy transfer of documents to a new computer.
4|I looked at a handful of external hard drive options to hook up to my Mac to use with Time Machine. The sale price was right on this one and the setup was very easy. No issues to complain about.
5|If I can install it &amp;amp; use it, everyone can! This thingy is very easy to use.
5|I am very happy with my Seagate backup plus hard drive. Works as advertised
5|I needed to transfer some files from friend's MacBook Pro to my PC. A direct computer to computer xfer didn't work, so I bought this drive thinking I would have to have data taken off it and then reinstalled after formatting the drive for a PC. That was going to cost me $100. Instead, the Mac files went right on this drive, and then right back out to my PC! Delighted to save so much money and now have a drive that will get Mac files for me easily!
5|When we need to back up data or have extra storage this is very easy to use. It is small and compact.
5|Great little hard drive so work at home on my Mac take it too work and it transfers right too my PC
5|Great and ease of use. Great storage and loading from PC, and mobile.
5|great external hard drive for the price, would recommend
5|Perfect as a device for backing up files, or extra file space.
4|good value and nice size easy to use and carry ,fast
5|This is a great product. It is easily set up, does it's job in the background without any fuss. Easy to pull things off the backup.
5|Great product to use. Easy to set up. Great back up tool Only downfal the USB cord is very short
5|See above! Less is more :) .......................
5|Overall I like it. Sleek design, but a little pricey
5|Easy to instal and use. Simple s/w dashboard included for use in managing drive for backups or easily used as plug and play portable media storage device.
5|Purchased the portable drive to use at the office as a secondary back up for our main server. It is easy to use and the slim design makes it easy to transport back and forth for offsite storage protection.
5|I had no problem with the setup and it does the backup as expected when I scheduled it.
5|I use it to down load gopro data cards to reduce storage on my cup hard drive.
5|I back up baby photos galore. I can use this easily on both Windows and Linux. Very happy.
4|I bought this to use as a back-up device for my laptop and my wife's laptop. It was compatible with both windows 7 and windows 8. The software loaded easy but I am not sure I like it. I decided to use the windows back-up in place of the software that comes with the product. I like that it is a small size and does not need to be plugged into a power outlet to operate. There is plenty of space to back-up all my music and pictures. We can even fit several from each computer. And when we finish it stores neatly in our safe. You could also leave it plugged into a desktop for automatic back-ups if you like. The only reason I did not give it 5 stars is because of the software it comes with. I did not think that software was easy to use for more than one computer.
5|I would recommend this product to anyone that needs a small external hard drive that works with a Mac or PC. Seagate is good company. Easily to use &amp;amp; to transfer data from a Mac to a PC or PC to a Mac.
5|Bought this to backup both my and wife's laptops. Very easy to use. Will recommend
4|Love the size and performance. Easy to use and large capacity. Works with all devices, but had to update USB drivers on Windows 7
5|Excellent product performs as described and expected
5|Excellent drive - fast USB 3 - nothing to do and compatible with Mac
5|I plan to purchase an additional backup plus for other in the company.
5|Using the Seagate for Backup. Works great with the USB 3.0. Software is OK to use.
4|The wireless backup feature of this drive is handy but show. If you have thousands of pictures to backup like I do it will take days if not weeks.
4|Good for extra storage space. Easy to set up on computer.
4|This is a very nice portable hard drive. It's compact, easy to install, and easy to use. It works well and is a good value for the price. If I have to nitpick one thing, it would be that I don't love the installed software. It's not that it is bad or doesn't work well, it just feels a little dated and clunky. For a sleek-looking device, you'd expect similarly polished software. But, it's hardly worth complaining about the software when the device looks great and works great. I'd recommend it to anyone needing a compact drive.
5|A really good external for music and everyday use for a college student. I use this for everything!
5|Great portable external hard drive - very easy to set up and then use. small portable and great value.
5|Bought it for work where my laptop didnt have enough HDD space. Great drive so far. Highly recommend a case to go with it.
5|I'm not good with cloud storage yet and it's easy to put documents, music, and photos on this. Only problem I have is I have documents from old laptop that came up symbols but I think that has to do with going from Windows Vista to Windows 8 without having Microsoft Office.
5|I needed a time machine back up for my mac book pro. This external drive was priced right and was easy to use.
5|Easy to use haven't had a problem with it. Used it to back up two PC's can't beat the price.
4|My son can not use some of the feature it have on a Mac. Only works great on a PC.
5|its awesome, one of the best hard drives I have ever had!
5|About the size of a pack of playing cards, this handy portable drive holds 1 TB of information. Having past experience of losing my files due to my pc crashing, I now feel more confident with them backed up to this little handy device. A small price for such insurance.
4|Cant complain about the memory. The price is okay. It is kinda bulky.
5|I am very please with this product due to ease if use and large storage capacity in a small device.
5|Great drive and price, it was used to image and backup systems. I purchase several.
4|Got this to backup my PS3 hard-drive for a change out. Worked great for that and now my wife is using it to backup all her work files. We don't use it everyday obviously but it's been doing fine so far. Plenty of memory and runs fast enough.
5|Great for the price - nothing else to say just tri
5|Made my purchase based on price and size and name brand
5|just what I needed to download pictures, before xp ends its contract and doesn't offer services after; April 1
5|love it just what I needed. easy to store I great.
3|This is not good if you want to load your digital videos, movies or pictures as it doesn;t work with all TV's. It is great for your computer files to add more storage, but that is about it.
5|easy to use with older/newer unit. Quick process. Good amount of storage for a fair price
5|Easy to use, compact and a great price. Perfect for home or office.
5|I have bought 3 ! I use them for safely backup of my data and it's easier to have access into a large collection of pictures and mediavideo fastly.
5|Bought this to replace an older external USB hard drive. I was amazed how much smaller and quieter the new one is. The data transfer rate is acceptable and the slim design makes it much less of an intrusion into your desktop space. I would definitely recommend this for additional storage space or for backup.
5|Good product and the capacity of storage is great also. Able to fit all my data now. Only bad thing is the cable is a little to short.
4|Overall, its a good product, but could use improvement on its software. It appears to be set up for amateur users, simply plug in and backup, but advanced users who want more control of backup features may become frustrated.
5|Quick and easy plug and play installation for the drive. The included backup software also installed easily and works well, performing backups in the background on the fly..
5|This external hard drive works just right and has a great amount of storage available.
5|I purchased this drive to carry along with me for backing up my laptop data. It has surpassed all my expectations of portability and sufficiency.
5|It's well worth the price. It has the storage space I need, and loads fast.
5|I purchased this item so I could save all of my sons pictures and important paperwork. It works perfectly with space to spare.
4|Seagate has produced an easy to use external hard drive with a great look and feel. Works great with Macs! Would recommend to use as everyday back up?
5|Bought this primarily to manually copy files off a computer before doing a full system restore. Turns out, the backup software it comes with is pretty darn nifty. You can manage files manually AND use the automated backup software on the drive at the same time, no problem.
5|Overalls good;enjoy product. Sometimes confused but I am a beginer.
5|Great Seagate storage device. Easy to set up - just plug and play. Easy to use and retrieve data.
5|I have been very happy with this storage device. It's compact, compatible with all of my devices, and easy to use.
5|I highly recommend this portable hard drive for your data backup needs. It comes with a backup program, and is USB3 capable with backward compatibility. Very portable and works on Windows 8.1 or earlier with no issues whatsoever.
5|Very nice design and compact I will recomend this to all my friends and family
5|Its a great portable hard drive! Small, not heavy at all, and has great space for the for the price.
4|Attractive design. Compact and easy to transport and store. Great storage capacity. Easy to use, although there was one issue with files that tech support for Seagate admitted could have been easier to use. Awesome technical support which was easy to connect with, no long wait time to get through and rep was highly knowledgeable. Glad I purchased this item.
5|Bought this as a portable backup drive for my 750 GB laptop. Very pleased as product is very easy to use, travels well (with additionally purchased case), and USB 3.0 transfers data very quickly.
4|Was really easy to set up to work for both MAC and PC. Well worth the money.
4|Great backup and portably. Easy to use. Slim design
5|We had one earlier at our home in Canada.It was good so we expect this one will be at least equally as good. Good salesmanship
5|The Seagate back up plus is very useful, travel accessible and extremely light. It's internal HD is qiuet and it's RPM speed and USB 3.0 capability are very satisfying.
4|I was looking for an external drive that I could store my photos on and not worry about losing them.
5|got this to keep as a backup when the hard drive on my computer goes out someday.. this back up does it's job and will work on win 8 someday too,
5|I needed an external hard drive to save photos and videos from three different computers at home. This hard drive is easy to use and works flawlessly.
5|Easy to use. Easy to set up. Good price. Lots of storage space.
4|As you can probably piece together, I bought this to backup my computer data. The device was ready to go right out of the box. Drivers installed hassle-free. The included software is completely useless and unnecessary. Windows backup can handle all backup capabilities or even Acronis. Basically it acts as it should, an external drive. You'll get about 931 GB of usable space right out of the box. If I have any issues, I'll be sure to update this review.
5|Great product! Totally worth the money. Tons of storage and so simple to use.
5|Bought this drive to help with music storage. Was very easy to use and set up. Great product
4|Very good capacity, size, price and performance for a simple backup drive.
5|Good Product, slim and sleek, portable, lots of storage space. Easy directions.
5|The price is good on this cool SSD storage device and it is lightweight, compact and easy to carry. It is also easy to use and compatible with my MacBook Pro.
5|My latop hard drive was out of space. Had about 2 GB out of 500 left. Rushed into the store and picked up one. Install with ease and was able to transfer my files with ease. Whole setup took a few seconds. I transferred over 300 GB of data in about or under 1 hour.
5|Great product for the price! My sixty-five year old dad uses it so I'm sure anybody can...
5|The product did do exactly as described. Good value. Very happy.
5|Seagate - Backup Plus Slim 1TB External USB portable external hard drive is a top choice of experts and users for its reliable performance at an attractive price. The included Windows-only backup software is basic but effective, and it's very user-friendly. For Mac users, the Seagate -Backup plus plays well with Apple's Time Machine software. Lots of capacity choices are available to fit almost anyone's needs or budget.
4|It is usually tough to find peripheral items to use with Macs. I found product to fit right in with my computer. Perfect back up to the computer as well. Great product.
4|The size is great and portable, something which is key for my work. It also has a sturdy cord that seems better than WD products that I've used in the past. It remains to be seen if it will corrupt (since I've had that problem in the past) but so far, so good.
5|It's small and very versatile. I can use it to transfer pictures to my wife's pc and use it to back up my MacBook Pro. Also, the price was great.
5|I thoroughly enjoyed the Seagate portable hard drive. It was easy to use and satisfied my need to back up pictures and documents.
5|Used for Off-site backup of Family Pictures. Plugged into USB 3, Windows 7 detected it, installed drivers automatically, and I was Backing up 150GB of Pics in no time. Its small size allows it to be easily portable to my office and back when I want to add to it. Would also make a good travel Drive as it is light as well.
4|The unit was easy to hook up and use, does what it is suppose to do. Price value good.
5|Is a great priduct for the price... I would recomend this to a friend.. Works great..
4|Needed a drive to copy our DVR programs to when our Dish receiver was acting up. Was easy to use and happy to now have the programs on a new reciever.
5|fits in the palm of your hand ease of use light weight
4|I needed to back up all my files from my PC and Lap Top, and to create a recovery disk for both. This unit worked very well. I have over 5000 pictures and over 1000 videos, and also small personal files in Word, Excel, and PDF. I think one Tera is a good size for backing up a personal home computer's data.
5|For the price, it is excellent. I have used other storage devices and after short time have failed requiring extra cost to retrieve.
3|I bought this, as an uninformed consumer, to use with both a newly purchased Macbook Pro and other Windows based PCs. Then I discovered that there was a free app the allowed the Macbook Pro read NTFS formatted drives. I installed that app, it worked perfectly, and returned the drive because it was redundant since I already owned a portable 1 TB Lacie drive that both platforms could use.
5|It did what I wanted. That was to backup my files.
4|Slim easy to install, good price for a 1T capacity
5|I work in TV and video production so needless to say I can fill up a drive pretty quick. I've used several of these hard drives for work and as backup without any issues. If you need a hard drive, look no further.
4|Purchased this external hard drive after rebuilding my computer following a massive virus crash. Wish I had done it long ago. It was very easy to install and after a glitch in the set up and a quick call to Seagate support, they got me up and running in no time. Since then I back up on a monthly basis and sleep much easier!
5|Easy setup and and transfer the data you need to. Highly recommend this to backup your data.
5|This is a good brand. Only use this brand. Have 3 of them and they always work without fail.
5|Found this easy to use right out of the package. Have not tried a second backup yet.
5|As far as I can tell the unit is backing up my PC constantly. I had tp spend a little more time with the software to figure out how to do auto backups. I didn't think it was very intuitive.
4|Works well for getting data off old hard drives. Good for storage of sensitive data and old info.
5|I am a graphic designer, so having a dependable place to save files is a necessity. I bought this to back up my computer and archive my work. It has been a major asset. After having prior portable drives fail or get corrupted, this drive was a welcomed change.
5|Bought this for my daughter to backup her laptop. Really easy to use, USB connections, PC friendly, and small and light and rock solid simple. I'd recommend as either a backup or as extra storage, either way you can't go wrong
5|It's a portable hard drive. It works. It's efficient. It's not unbearably slow.
5|I am working on genealogy for our family. This hard drive makes it easy to store and share information I have uncovered about our family's past.
5|The Seagate external drive is great for storing picture. Easy to set up. Further, you can take it with you as it is lite and portable.
3|It's just okay. It's a hard drive...what more do you need to know. The installation of the dashboard software is kind of a pain and you can't use it until it's installed. What ever happened to plugging in external storage and throwing data on to it?
5|These are very small and easy to use. Between this storage and in the cloud storage, I am backed up to the hilt!
5|This drive has worked great so far, affordable, fast, slim and super portable. Doesn't make much noise and seems fairly durable!
5|Easy set up including scheduling backups. Small footprint
5|I was looking for a compact storage drive to put in my lap top case this was perfect
5|Does the job reliably and the price was fair. Compact and easy to travel with.
5|Bought for backing up pictures and with the backup software....it is a breeze
4|It has been functioning without any problems so far, so I don´t have any complaints of any type. I like the product so far and the value of it for the price.
5|Easy to use and very lightweight. Priced right for the amount of storage. We were able to plug and backup (once we found the Windows backup app).
5|This product was very easy to use and a great price.
5|Son bought it for school. He said it is very nice. I am trying to get this to 50 characters.Hope i am there............
5|I picked this hard drive after a lot of searching, scanning through reviews and comparing models. I was torn between picking a 500 GB or a 1 TB hard drive. I was looking at some WD drives and this one. I needed a drive for just routine backups. I have over 100 GB in Dropbox, but using it exclusively for all my backup is not very convenient. It takes very long to upload and not absolutely everything can fit in it. The point is that I didn't need a hard drive to lug around a large media library with me. I mostly stream stuff and I have a rather large drive in my notebook anyways. This is why 500 GB would work for me and I didn't desperately need a terabyte of space. While some other drives had double the space for just a few more dollars, I went with this one because of its size and weight. This thing is slim and looks very decent. Taken out of the rather easy-to-open packaging, this device was not that special looking. It doesn't have cool colors, designs or accents. It's a rather plain device with a silver metal top and a black plastic bottom. The top will match your Mac. The drive overall feels very good when held. The bottom may be plastic, but it doesn't feel like a flimsy thing despite the very light weight. It comes with a very small, but just long enough USB cable. You could put both into a pocket and not notice. It's that slim. It comes with a 2 year warranty, while some drives come with longer warranties, but I don't worry too much about that because I will not be storing sensitive data on it. The USB 3.0 transfer rates are fast enough. I was able to copy my entire iPhoto library file (about 15 GB) in a matter of 10 minutes or so. Same with my 10 GB iTunes folder. It comes with some software that allow you to upload to Facebook and whatnot, but I decided I didn't need it and I was able to wipe it all easily (it's downloadable on the Seagate website). I am very happy with the purchase overall.
5|This hard drive is very compact. It is great for backing up your computer, sharing files, and increasing your storage on your computer. It does not have a power adapter, runs off the computer, very portable. This product is compact, fast, and very reliable. Well worth its low price.
4|Great storage space and quick retrieval of data.I have one,this is teh secnd one for my friend.
4|I would recommend this product to anyone who needs an external hard drive and can't upgrade their computer.
5|It holds ALOT of data and easy to load and carry around. I recommend it :)
5|Replacing an older model that had a faulty input jack ( which came loose and erased all my files!). This one is great, better design.
4|Being a light storage space component it is great for on the go. The USB attachment is kind of a big deal since it's specific to that hard drive.
2|I bought this drive to use as a work drive. I teach Photography at two different schools and work off of my own laptop. My personal laptop is a PC, both schools use Mac. This drive is advertised as being cross compatible for both platforms so I bought it. When I tried to use it on a Mac I couldn't access anything on it or add anything to it. I called Seagate and they told me the only way to use it on Mac is to download a software that will read the drive. This is not feasible for me as I work at two schools and could be accessing anywhere from 10-20 different computer stations not to mention neither IT department is going to let me download this software to any machines. Basically, I would have returned the drive but it was past the return date of 15 days and the package was opened. I took the drive to the IT department at one of the schools and they formatted the drive to XFAT and it's been fine ever since. Why can't the drives just be sold this way in the first place??? I have referred all my students with similar to do the same thing.
5|Gives me confidence so that I don't have to worry about losing what I have on the computer.
5|great product holds all 17,000 of my photos. easy to use with my macbook pro and doesn't take up a lot of space
5|Great item as noted, would recommend. Second unit I have purchased one for business and one for home.
5|This was purchased for backing up data. Works fine so far. No known problems.
5|It is great little gadget! I have used it many times and hasn't failed me yet.
5|I really recommend this product. Product is small and easy to use. just plug and store
5|Excellent product! I was having response problems with an external hard drive from another manufacturer, so I purchased this one. Does a great job and is quick to respond.
4|is a small component that do not require extra space on my desk, now y have good space for my files and i fell secure if something happen to my computer.
5|I am using this drive as the primary storage on a Raspberry PI NAS. It came preformated and ready to use. So far I have had no issues with this device.
5|This is my first time using a product like this. I had tons of family pictures that I wanted to back up in case my computer crashed. I wasn't sure what to expect but I love it. It's small and thin, one wire goes from device to your USB. You just plug it in and the drive pops up on the computer, you click on a file and drag it to the drive and it copies. Simple as that. No software to download etc. 1TB is a ton of space so I will gets lots of use out of it. Honestly, anyone can figure it out no matter how tech savy you are. I highly recommend.
4|I originally got this to transfer my photos, videos, and files from my old computer to my new one. However, it really didn't work out that way. I do use it to backup the new computer now that I transferred everything with flash drives. So it does a good job, it's just the employee suggested it for the wrong reasons. Still glad I own it though.
5|I been using Seagate hard drives for a long time, like the size, how reliable they work and never had issues with them.
5|I bought this product to store and combine all of my media files from three computers. The transfer speeds with USB 3.0 are incredible. It is a great drive for media files or any really because of the small size and huge storage space it gives
5|No problems to plug it in and go. Very easy to use.
5|I am extremely satisfied with this Seagate external hard drive. I have 2 Seagate hard drives and am very satisfied.
4|Easy to use for a beginner with good advanced set up options for the people that know how to do that. This is my second seagate, and I like this newer model. Lots of storage and I got it on sale, so big plus there. It's a bit slow but I have large picture files that might have something to do with it.
4|easy to use and install and copies files quickly. maybe I can't figure it out, but I can't see where it shows you file by file what has copied, it just shows me that a chunk of data has copied, but how do I know exactly every file I want has copied. Also unsure how to restore from it if my harddrive does crash...I'll guess I'll figure it out when or if that time comes.
5|this is small, compact portable hard drive that is easy to use.
5|Works just fine for what we need, which is picture/video storage to clear space on our PC.
4|Needed some extra space for pics and files, this did the trick
5|I really like the seagate external portable hard drive. Easy to set up and great price; had great reviews on consumer reviews
5|Really light, and thinner than WD Ultra, with metal top case. Backup software works well.
5|Working just as expected, easy to connect and use.
4|very compact way to store files, music, and pictures. easy to transfer files from computer to computer.
5|Bought this for mom mother to back up photos. Really easy to use.
3|I needed help from an Apple Tech to have the unit function properly.
5|The price was right, setup was easy and I can transfer pictures between PC and Mac.
4|bought this to back up my computer. Seems to be doing what it was designed to do.
5|suggested by daughter and glad I followed her suggestion
5|was a good buy for the money just what I was looking for
5|Bought this to hook up my Note 3 and get all my files off my phone. I used an OTG cable and had to format Hard Drive to ExFat (Fat32 also works). You can also root phone to use Hard Drive as NTFS but a lot easier to just format drive in my opinion.
5|I got this to use as a portable storage device. Transfer is fast and the drive is very compact
4|I bought the drive to backup my work laptop whenever I'm traveling and on the go. It's quick and easy to use using Seagate's Dashboard. I haven't tried using the cloud or social media backup since this is primarily for business use. No issues to report after a month of use.
5|I'm happy with my purchase! It works well n simple, the drive is durable and compatible with both Mac n IBM.
5|Seagate has been making drives as long as there has been has personal and business computers. This is the latest small external 1T
4|very slim and portable, easy to use. was looking for something light and portable to add extra storage and this easily fits the bill.
5|good item and price works fine. can't reach 50 characters.
5|It's fast, nicely built and small(a little thicker and wider than an iPhone#. It has tons of space and the backup utility#Seagate dashboard) is easy to use. Overall, an excellent buy.
4|Easy to use. I like that it's compatible with my Mac &amp;amp; PC devises although I've only used it with the Mac so far.
4|Great drive. Works great with my Mac. Lets me move info between my MAC and PC.
5|Perfect for backing up a home computer so you never fear losing pictures or important documents.
