3|I got my harddisk on timely but there is issue regarding warranty. If u ask seagate india for warranty they declined. They said as by mail me "Dear Vikas Jajpuria, Thank you for contacting Seagate Support. I understand that you want to revise the warranty period of your drive as per the purchase date. We are very sorry to inform you that your drive doesn't carry warranty in India. Your drive was shipped from UAE and so we may not be able to provide warranty support for your drive in India. This is for your information that Seagate does not provide international warranty. As per Seagate warranty policies "Drives distributed outside of India must be returned within the original country of distribution". So product is genuine but warranty is big issue.
5|The best 2TB portable hard disk. The silver colour looks so good as compared to the black one (looks like brushed silver, see pics). Don't have the blue/red one, will update the review when I receive it. The size of the drive is small and thin as compared to others available in the market. Available space is 1.81TB. I have been using it since past few months and haven't found anything bad with it or something worth complaining about. Registering the product online on seagate website is easy and quick.
1|It stopped to work after 3-4 instance of use. It is showing the disk is detected in device manager but not in computer's browser.
2|The product is not so good and one more problem is that four months after purchasing, I am still not able to register the product on seagate link because it is not recognizing the product number and I am unable get warranty and any other privileges that the company is providing for its product.
1|Extremely disappointed with this purchase. Purchased the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive yesterday. When I tried to register the product on the Seagate website, I was informed that the serial number of the product is invalid and hence I am not even able to check the warranty online. Not sure whether the product has any warranty at all! Extremely disappointing.
1|the product stopped working within 3 months. have complained to amazon n seagate 7-8 days back, nothing fruitful has been done yet
1|scratches on the exterior i might have got a product returned by somebody else but had to keep it due data backup emergency.
1|I couldn't use the drive even once after I got it from amazon. The files get corrupted when I copied it from my pc to the drive. And amazon have only 8 days for return of the electronics product. Is there another policy of return the drive to amazon? or should I directly contact with Seagate?
1|i hate it.. its not working now i give to this servic centre they give me back new harddisk after 1 week .. its ful f bd xpernc..to buy via amazon :(
1|I was so excited to order this hard disc, reading all the reviews and the description. But I was utterly disappointed later when I checked for product warranty on the seagate website. when I entered the serial no. and model no. it said the product is out of warranty!. This is very strange because the date of manufacture on the box is only a month ago. It is also very sad that amazon doesn't offer replacement. After this experience I'm probably never gonna buy a seagate product again!
5|I shopped from amazon first time. I ordered this product on 2 june, 2014. It was expected to reach me by 6 june. But due to some delay (package arriving at wrong courier facility), i received it on 7 june morning. Amazon customer service was excellent and very helpful and they tried their best to make this delivery fast. 5*'s for amazon. Now returning to product. I received it in excellent packaging surrounded by airbags. This product has 3 years limited warranty. It's shell is mettalic. Also, its very slim and portable. Easily slides into the pocket. The cable provided with it is of average length. While copying it gives better speed than its competition (both on 2.0 and 3.0). Its only drawback is that it doesn't work with old os like win 98, xp, etc. But i think everyone is using win 7 or 8 these days so it should not trouble anyone. Actual space provided is 931 GB. A seagate dashboard software is included using which u can backup some select folders or ur entire pc. It also powers the user to backup the data on their smartphones. A separate app is available on Play store for android and app store for ios. I highly recommend this product to everyone who is in need of a 1 TB external hard drive.
5|The finish of the drive is superb and very compact, seagate is one of the best manufacturers of external hard drives and they have proved it yet again with this company powerhouse. True value for money.
1|Worked fine for 10 days and then suddenly stopped getting detected on systems. To add to my problems seagate doesn't have a data recovery centre due to which i might lose about a tb of data
1|I received the defective drive. first 2 days it worked well. 3rd day failed. i lost my photos. very poor.
4|An addition to already existing good reviews which helped me to buy this hard disk. 1. My laptop has USB 2.0 port and this drive works absolutely fine with good speed. 2. I did not buy the case, instead wrapped the air-bubbled device protector (provided in the courier package) around my hard disk. No heating issues at all, even after continuous usage of over more than few hours. However, I expect Amazon to provide the case with the device itself. 3. It connects within seconds. You connect the device to USB port, go to 'My Computer' and hard disk will be listed in there. This fast! 4. Delivery was good. 5. 3 years warranty post-registering on Seagate's website. 6. I had planned to buy WD MyPassport Ultra since few months but its price was quite high for my need. Switched to this and it works best for me.
5|COOL STUFF REALLY NICE TO SEE THE MATERIAL IS GOOD NOT CHEAP , SMARTPHONE SIZED DEVICE CARRY IT ANYWHERE , SPEED OF COPYING IS TOO GOOD , PRICE FROM MARKET IS UNBELIEVABLE RS 4,800 ADVICE - DON,T THINK TWICE JUST BUT IT
3|While I was recommended this product by few friends too, the product I received did not work on first use itself. Drive corrupted error. Thats within half hour of delivery. And I see a similar review. So I would think twice. On the other hand the Seagate Expansion seems to be a better product and has a newer version too, but it is not being promoted( its not among the first products you see when searching). Amazon delivery was excellent and quick though. And refund was done quick too. Maybe a one among the few lot in the current batch which must have this technical problem. Due to my urgency(travelling overseas), decided not to physically get the Seagate Expansion hard drive instead. Have used WD passport earlier which simply died, taking away my important data with it..
1|Seems to be a nice product but but for me it went faulty within 15 days of purchase. Thanks to amazon for it's return policy.
1|Hey guys, I have a different story with this product which you won't believe. I selected this one after some serious researches. Almost all leading tech sites suggested this one over "WD Elements Portable". I received the product on 21st June '14. Just after 3 weeks of use, it started showing some issues that my laptop does not detect the device. I tried with some other systems and it all end up with similar result. It was after 3 weeks and the return period was already over. Now I have raised request for replacement on seagate's website. I don't know what is going to happen :(
5|i bought this external disk as my first purchase, and i am very happy with the product and the way it was delivered to me.. it was nicely packed with 3 layers of packing around the original box.. and its working well and the speed and transfer rate is also good.. i am impressed with amazon.. The product really handy, its fast, Its awesome, Amazon's delivery services are impressive..The finish of the drive is superb and very compact, seagate is one of the best manufacturers of external hard drives..slim n small... so compact, no sound at all. worth every penny spent.The backup speed is fast enough. As for the packaging and delivery, it was securely packed in bubble wrap and delivery was on time. Happy with the experience.
3|I am using Seagate Backup plus hard disk for more than 2 years. I never had an issue, like I have removed the hard disk many times without removing safely from laptop. But the hard disk was working very fast and not even a single file got corrupt. Due to that trust I bought this backup plus SLIM hard disk. and trust me it's not up to the expectations. It's working properly but sometimes in between it hangs and laptop too hangs. The copying is speed is very slow. It will show 120-130 Mbps but just after 3-4 seconds it will drop to 20-30 Mbps. and sometimes it only copies at a speed of 8-9 Mbps. Pros: well built, very slim, light weight. Cons: too slow copying speed. hangs sometimes.
5|After using this product for about a month now I came across the following traits of the product: - Its really handy - its fast - Its awesome - Amazon's delivery services are reliable as usual - the color of the product is very nice - shiny and beautiful - Its smaller than my mobile Nokia Lumia 625 A must buy product guys :) go for it :)
5|photos
5|# Sizing: Compared to WD My Passport Ultra 2TB Portable, Seagate is very slim. If we stack 2 Seagate Slim Plus, that much thicker is the WD My Passport Ultra 2TB Portable (NOT WD 1TB model). Compared to an iPhone 5 size, the Seagate drive is a little bit thicker (2-3mm), shorter length wise (1cm) and wider width wise (2cm). # Connectivity: This drive uses a standard blue USB 3.0 cable (included) that is backwards compatible to USB 2.0 meaning that you can plug it into any Mac or PC. And the cable is not much flexible like WD HDD. But it feels premium quality than WD. # Speed: This is result when I compared with Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB, WD Elements 1TB Portable (WDBPCK0010BBK-EESN) & WD My Passport Ultra 1TB Portable. (See the attached picture or use link below) http://s11.postimg.org/mvduokuir/Untitled_13.jpg # MAC Compatibility: There is a Free Paragon NTFS driver on Seagate website. You can run any NTFS storage peripherals when you install this driver. # Free bundled software: The drive includes helpful backup software and a free two-year 200GB subscription to Microsoft OneDrive online storage. # Dislikes: There are NO rubber grip pads under the HDD case. So, it is easy to slip from table/desk & doesn't reduce vibrations (HDD don't have any vibration or noise now). NO rubber pads on 4 corners inside the case of HDD. So, doesn't survive small drops. # Compared to WD: If u want 2TB HDD & exactly what the word "SLIM" means, go for Seagate. For rough use & don't care about slim size, always go for WD. All WD HDD have rubber pads on 4 corners inside the case & rubber grips under the HDD case. It will help to survive small drops & hits, reduce slip from table/desk & reduce vibrations. # WARNING: Remember, this is a electronic product. We can't predict for how many days these HDD will work. Usually, when we get these things we will use very carefully for about 2-3 months, afterwards we use roughly. If you are a rough user & always plug this on computer & share this HDD with friends, most of these won't survive very long even if they belong to the best company in portable HDD or best reviewed one. I suggest, for more secure your data, always upload your important data on one or two reputed Cloud Drives (GoogleDrive, Dropbox, iCloud). **Please use the Like button if you like this review**
5|Hello World, I've Seagate Backup Plus slim 2TB two weeks before and thought of giving a video review. And it was not possible. I previously had a Samsung G2 320GB hence am little experienced how these portable drives perform, size factor, etc. I deeply checked all portable drives of storage capacity 2TB and found that, This is the ONLY drive of 12mm. WD Passport is wrongly mentioned of 15mm thickness in amazon.in and even in flipkart.com but Go to WD Site where it is specifically mentioned that 2TB version is of 20mm. All Adata, Samsung M3, etc. are of 20mm. I wanted a slimmest one hence went for this. Also I watched a Case opening video and found that, this drive had Internal SATA-USB Conversion and hence if drive goes bad, data recovery is possible through SATA Port. Surf YouTube for that info, MRP Mentioned on package is ?13990. On my purchase from "Infiniti Retail Ltd" seller in amazon.in, After SBI Card 10% discount, it costed ?6883.2 where in USA selling at $100, I had to give ?883 for country variation! Shipped from Mumbai on a Saturday and got product to Tamilnadu on Monday, with FedEx (amazon.in and FedEx rock!) After I ordered the product, I felt bad as price is very dynamic. Price went down for nearly ?50 for which I was able to able refund request. Instead crediting money back to Card, Folks at amazon.in sent me Cheque! And it’s of some Deutsche Bank where I don't have account hence to redeem that money, I have to spend more! (Due to Cheque collection fee from other bank!), (Cheque is collecting Dust ;-)). Then, after 10 days price fall was drastic to approx. ?7200 where I was safe only due to SBI Card Cash back Package was Good (Seagate logo engraved is Superb cool!) and Drive as expected as thin (I felt thinner than my previous G2!) My Desktop just has USB 2.0 and drive performs Great with Avg. 34MBps on both Read/Write. CNET had reviewed this drive and found this drive performs the best on USB 3.0 with Fastest R/W Speeds. (Read it through Google-ing for it). However on a Laptop, I get Avg. 25MBps on USB 2.0. As, many said USB 3.0 Cable is short but is exact to connect it to Laptop or Desktop's front USB. I don't worry of length, because as of now, I don't have USB 3.0 and hence it is POSSIBLE for me to use all EXISTING MICRO-USB Cables which generally connect my phone to PC. Try using those if you have such drive and have not tried it before (Surprise!) Bit Techy (For Geeks): Drive when plugged recognizes to SCSI Interface and Installs to Normal Portable drive. Drive's hardware identification name is "Seagate BUP Slim BK USB Device". Natively Formatted as NTFS and contain propitiatory Seagate Tools and Warranty registration tool. I formatted again and got total space of 1.81TB aka 1907729MB exactly. As if you've read above you'll be felt positive on drive. If I have list negative or disadvantage (with great difficulty), 1. Data activity indication LED light a little different (It dims and glows as Non-intrusive instead Quick offs-ons). With Seagate Tools, it is possible to turn off this LED but I wonder why anyone would do this! 2. LED is positioned in Top. I prefer it be located near the USB Port like it is done in WD Passport/Essentials, so that activity is visible from side. 3. Least one. Pricey compared to Adata, Samsung, WD, etc. Eventually I expect this drive's price will reach near US price in future. 4. Heating? Does anyone know HDD that doesn't heatup on working??? Verdict is Best buy for ? I bought for and Keep going on checkout without any more confusion, as I've already done enough analysis and comparisons for you. (I've done such detailed review like on amazon.com so that people could buy with more clarity of true info and to inspire reader to write such depth reviews on products they buy). Finally for Info, HDD originally manufactured and assembled at China. So, NOT "MADE IN INDIA" Product :-( -Indian
3|Stopped working just in 2nd use only, may b the device was bad. Needs better quality control before supply. I appreciate Amazon And Give them ***** ( 5 Stars ). Amazon collected the device from me & refunded the money to my bank before said time.
2|Brought it last week, The product finishing is quite awesome but regarding performance is concerned I am not at all satisfied. Copying speed is too slow, got the max speed 225kbps/sec, I tried numerous times on different file in different laptops but same speed latter it stops copying after 2%. Seems the fault in the product. I will like to go for replacement
5|Best harddisk I also get the warranty very easily for 3 years The best 2TB portable hard disk. The colour looks so good as compared to the black one (looks like brushed silver, see pics). Don't have the blue/red one, will update the review when I receive it. The size of the drive is small and thin as compared to others available in the market. Available space is 1.81TB. I have been using it since past few months and haven't found anything bad with it or something worth complaining about. Registering the product online on seagate website is easy and quick.
1|seagate portable ehd's are well known. when they are available at a higher discount here at amazon, it is a great deal ! expecting a good quality product from seagate and a good price from amazon, i ordered this EHD and to my luck, the product received was not working at all. it didnt connect/didnt get recognized by my laptop.. after trying several times to make it work, for a couple days, i had to return the product. appreciate the prompt return processing from amazon. but be mindful because instances like this will take away confidence from the customers on products made available here..
1|Hey Friends, dont be cheated with this product's cheap offers. I have bought this item before 1 month before@ 4300. i have a great trust in Seagate's products. and i have moved my 250 movies and 6 GB RARE COLLECTION OF SONGS to this hard drive. Suddenly one day it stopped functioning. I have incurred a great loss from this. I called seagate customer care and they told they cant recover my data. Well please buy this from nearest stores. AMAZON is selling damaged products through low price offers. Please dont be fooled..!!!!!!!
5|first time i purchase a product in online, received in good condition and working properly.. space to use 931 GB,.. slim and compact too...
1|I bought this drive and transferred all my important , very crucial data into it. But, IT CRASHED in just 15-20 days... Believe me every 4 or 5 customers are getting defected drives and Amazon is not doing anything, just to margin their profit as they are getting defected hard drives for cheaper rate. Even, they are not ready to get my Data retrieval as they say they are not technical person. I strongly recommend dun't buy anything from them than to regret as I am doing. Still your choice to go...!!!
1|Rating is not for quality of the drive, but for the experience of purchase. I had to return it twice. First time, found a dent on it, unacceptable. Second time, I suspect it was spurious, as packaging during first and second delivery was different. The plastic seal was found to be cut also during second time. Was not sure which was original. My intent to buy is clear, however, not sure if I am getting am original Seagate product.
1|It was found to be a defected product! HDD stopped working after 2 weeks. Very disappointing exp. from amazon & seagate. But thank goodness it was an amazon fulfilled product thats y the money got refunded.
1|Better to see my reviews on their fb page... https://www.facebook.com/seagatein?brand_redir=1 backup plus drive waste product.... In only 4 months it is not being detect in system.. Customer care is not connecting on 18004254535.. I have very imortant data in that ... It is looking like it is just waste product i trusted and can loss my data of years around 600 GB including my brother's system data. I have written in twitter but no response. Now i am writing in fb. I don't knw what to do next but this is waste product with pathetic service and i will give review single star in flipkart frm where i took it.. and every where.
1|I received a defective product. I sent it to Seagate for correction as it is still under warranty. Isn't there a way we can ensure quality of deliverables made?
5|The product is as described by amazon. Got the latest Seagate disk(mfg: Dec, 2015). * You'll get 1.8 TB of disk size. * The product is sleek, simple, and weightless * Just Plug and Play * Got the 200GB of one drive storage also. This is also hassle free. Just install the "Set_Up.exe" and follow the steps. * That was a fantastic deal by the way. Thanks Amazon. Keep on amazing your costumers.
3|The product is good. However, I didn't find the synchronize option in this hard disk to synchronize and update the folders copied to hard disk with the changes done to those folders in the PC. This is available in almost all portable hard disks of other makes available. If there is any way I can synchronize files between my PC and hard disk , pls guide Sandip
5|This Portable HDD offers native drivers so that you can access your data from mac and windows without reformatting the entire Portable HDD. This Feature is quiet impressive.
2|it worked only few days and now the drive is not detecting now all my data is lost i tried recover from the seagate tools it is not working either i have raised service request to seagate and couriered the faulty drive to seagate still waiting for replacement previously i had 2 WD drives from past 3 years and did not have any problem with them till now.
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim is actually a slim portable drive. I just started using it. I purchased this especially to store movable media and other files that I can connect to various other laptops to get/give the contents to my friends. You can use it for storing important critical data. Seagate is known for its good usage. The available space when I connected it for the first time was 931 GB so around 69 GB is may be its internal files and storage that is not disclosed to the user. I have to download the Seagate Dashboard from the website to create a backup plan to backup the data from my laptop/computer to it. You can manually also do it. (your choice) I registered this product on www.seagate.com and I was presented with the 200GB free cloud storage for 2 year (as it said). But I am not sure about whether I will be charged after these 2 years. I have written a query to seagate customer care about it and also regarding the protections and security of access to our data that is stored on the cloud.
5|Writing this review after almost 5 months. (I have tried to avoid to avoid points which might know before handed like unboxing items and space capacity .I have tried to write it from the perspective of a 5 month old user who has had a real insight into the product have tried to bring out the points that ads wont tell you.) No signs of any technical problems. Comes in with the Slim Portable software which comes in handy if you are a social media buff or another of those photogenic image porters who need to watch their clicks almost anywhere. But you don't get any security encryption software to lock your external HDD but then you can easily download BitLocker or some other software. It provides really good copying speed , reaching almost or sometimes exceeding 100MB/s on 3.0 USB slots. Coming to the physical part: It really is slim as its name suggests but trust me it is very unlikely for it to survive more than a couple of fall offs from your hand so better safe than sorry. The cable is also good enough but probably could have been better as I feel after five months there has been some changes about the texture of it and most noticeable being a few fold creases caused by regular pressure and rough use. Overall I would suggest you to really go for this product as it is a good value for your money and then of course it has the brand name "Seagate".(although i am not really a supporter of brand value)
4|So after "years" of researching for a perfect HDD :D I finally ordered it from Amazon, and i gotta say it was gooood... Got one heck of a deal... I am quite happy with the price which was Rs 6400.00 on 06-10-2015 for Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive Silver *Silver is simply the best colour of 'em all* Ordered it on 6th was told it would be delivered by 10th but the delivery was out on 9th which was one day ahead of the actual date, due to my personal issues i rescheduled it to 10th. Got the product by 10th, was pretty happy. One of the smallest and slimmest 2 TB HDD i've ever seen. Registered it online, and got myself 3 yrs of warranty. Used it, it gives a decent 20-30 mbps of transfer speed, might get more if in USB 3.0 (Everyone does a check if the product would be good-bad-ugly, had some second thoughts after reading couple of negative reviews but there was no such problem with the product. Amazon is simply magnífico.) And after that Me and Seagate lived happily ever after. P.S. - Sorry for not adding the photos of how happy we both were... my camera got jealous and died.
4|Look and feel While the Backup Plus Slim is pretty much a basic drive in a very small enclosure, the Backup Plus Fast is actually two drives sandwiched into one body. Of course, the two are very different in terms of weight and portability. It's pretty much as small as a 2.5-inch hard drive enclosure can be, which makes us wonder how shock-resistant it actually is. My review unit had a metallic red finish on top, which was quite striking. The sides are glossy black, while the bottom is textured for a non-slip grip. Seagate includes a 0.5m USB 3.0 cable. You could easily slip this drive into a pocket and carry it around all day. Software Seagate includes both Mac and PC versions of its Dashboard utility. You have to install a registration utility as well, and you're forced to reboot before you can use any of it and then says it needs to download a 93MB update. Performance Unsurprisingly, the Backup Plus Fast outperformed its smaller sibling by a very wide margin in most tests. Both drives performed well, thanks to the fast USB 3.0 interface. You can expect sequential read and write speeds of around 106Mbps with the Slim, and 230Mbps with the Fast. Random read and write speeds, as measured by SiSoft SANDRA 2014, were more in line, with the Fast at 61.3 and 87.14Mbps as opposed to the Slim at 52.58 and 53.51 respectively. Pros Slim and light Versatile enough for everyday use Cons Slightly expensive Ratings (Out of 5) Design: 4 Performance: 3.5 Value for Money: 3.5 Overall: 3.5
5|another quality product from Seagate. slim n small... so compact, no sound at all. worth every penny spent. satisfied beyond limits.ried/writ 102mbps. super I love this products, The product is what we expect of Seagate. The backup speed is fast enough. As for the packaging and delivery, it was securely packed in bubble wrap and delivery was on time. Happy with the experience. Also The Seagate® Backup Plus Slim Portable Drive is the simple, one-click way to protect and share your entire digital life. Perfect to take on the go, the sleek metal case design allows for the thinnest portable hard drive available with up to 2TB of capacity. It goes anywhere — without getting in your way. Features mobile backup using the Seagate Mobile Backup App Protect your data with easy flexible backups Back up from Facebook® and Flickr® and share to YouTube® Easy to share files between Windows® and Mac computers USB 3.0 plug-and-play with no bulky power supply adapters
5|Friebds, I'm too much confused before buying it, because so many reviews are there in ecommerce website n that make me confused. But Buying Segate Hard Drive I'm completely satisfy Reason to buy Seagate Backup plus Slim 2TB 1. Very light Weight 2. No requirement of external power That's awesome 3. Sexy small n slim look It have half weight in compare of my Sony 1 TB Hard drive n almost 40% lighter n 25% smaller in looks 4. Main points is Speed Its has USB 3 support with great transfer speed 5. No Heat Problem I had transfered 940 GB in Single from my old Hard Drive to Segate, Even its stay simply Heat n works Consistently Awesome Feels Good 6. Bought from Amazon is really good Deal I found difference of Rd.700 less than other website, so thank you Amazon. That's it frds In sort very good Hard Drive @ at very good Price n Gives me Good Performance.... FEEL HAPPY
5|Amazon you have done it once again ordered it on sunday at 12:05 Am and received the package on Monday by 16:30 hrs...Amazing...As everyone had written about the sr nos not getting registered i was really skeptical to have ordered the hdd online...first thing firdt moment got the hdd went to the seagate website and registered the product and vola...it got registered it verified my product no as well... 1st stage cleared... 2nd stage plugged the hdd in the comp and vola it runs as smooth as butter once again satisfied.. The hdd is so compact it will deceive you on being a 1Tb and not a 2Tb...awesome job seagate on that... Amazon thanks for the quick servce you made my day... Must buy and good value for money...i would recommend to all customers looking for a hdd..dont doubt the product its premium and the best money can get you and amaxon offers this at at a very good price...
5|Got it for Rs.3999 (from festival sale). Its great.. Price is low when compared to other websites. But the packaging was not good. Just a sheet like thing is used no boxes was used. The product was good and new and it is just manufactured a month ago. Its with new logo in which Seagate changed few months back. The speed is maximum of 86 mb...but mostly it is around 75 mb.. which is little less when compared with transcend and wd elements bcz they both will be around 80- 85 mb mostly. And too the speed reduces to 30 for few seconds.. I dont know why it is like that.The drive is too small than i expected...Registeration of the product is quite easy. A slight disturbance will dusconnect the drive from computer. It is getting heated after usage of 20 minutes.. I think it is common. After registering the warranty is 3 years and 2 months. Very happy with this. Keep it safe using HDD protector. Length of the cable is small.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive is slim and aesthetic in look. This is the first time I am using Seagate Portable Hard Disk after 4 WD Portable Hard Disks. I have now used the HDD for the past one month and it has so far been working fine. The data transfer rate from Internal Hard Disk to Seagate Portable HDD is 63.9 MB per second and from WD My Passport Portable HDD USB 3.0 to Seagate Portable HDD, it is 35.1 MB per Sec. The transfer rate from WD My Passport USB 2.0 to Seagate is 28.4 MB per sec. Since room temperature has now fallen, the HDD has not got heated up. I have to see whether the Portable HDD gets heated up in Summer when the atmospheric temperature goes up and exceeds 40 degree Celsius.. Regarding packaging and delivery, it was exemplary. The quality of packaging was good and I received the consignment containing the HDD within 20 hours of placing the order.
5|I bought the 2Tb version. Genuine Product. Is working like a charm. I have been using it for a couple of weeks now. The speeds of transfer of data from the USB 3.0 port of my Macbook Air are awesome. Transfers of 1 GB data happen in less than 1 minute. As a lay man user who wants to just back up what ever data he has in his computer in case of emergency, this is a boon. It also comes with a 200 GB cloud with one drive which is free for 2 years. I think thats an added bonus. Also The feature of Lyve app connecting wirelessly to my iPhone, macbook and iPad to back up photos and videos is also a good feature. People who are getting worried about the warranty and product registration, I registered my product on seagate.com and got a genuine 3 year warranty. Here is the snapshot of my warranty. I bought my drive in Lightening deal with Cloudtail seller and effectively got the 2TB drive for 5500.
1|My hardisk got corrupted in less than 9 months. All my data is lost !! All seagate is willing to do is to replace the product. Seagate don't know what the issue really is. What is the point of owing a hardisk if it doesn't even last for an year!! Useless and needless to own a hard drive that too from Seagate.
4|Got this today. Delivered ahead of schedule, as is the norm with Amazon. Such a tiny thing, it is incredible that 2 TB data can be packed into it. Copied some large movie files from my laptop. Copying speed about 40-50 MBPS. Okay but not great. If I remember I shall give another review after a few months of use.
1|The same product available cheaper by around 500 on e bay Not a value of money. Speed is OK but looking to its price no advantages Compare to it transcend is good one which is durable and less price than this at least u can save 800 by purchasing transcend with attractive colors and good grip while handling
5|First of all very very bad packing by amazon,atleast learn to pack thing with bubble wrap or something,the package was not even fitting in the box.....as for the hard disk...5 stars on the way,very nice and good product from seagate,love the hd,it is so slim & handy,simple plug and surf,totally loving it :)
1|I purchased it in India. I came to US a few days ago with lots of data in it. Two days ago it has broken down, causing me enormous problems. I do not know what to do. It is not recogonized by two laptops that I connected it to and I cannot get anything out. If you can advise, that would be very useful.
5|My friend had bought the same drive 3 months ago and its body was made of plastic and do not seems to be very reilable and the product i got it has metallic design and weight is also very less than that. And design is very sleek i luved it reallly an awesome product. I recommend this product to my friends
1|Seagate Standards have gone down. What is the point in buying a hard drive that is not reliable. In just 2 Months the hard drive has become "BAD". Called up seagate service center and they said it will go for replacement and data will be lost!. Please refrain yourself from buying this hard disk.
1|I wish to rate only 1 star as i have observed the data transfer was very slow when compared to WD mypassport
1|Hello world I suddenly experienced this wonder with this device.. I have used this device to copy stuffs from my lap...but today wen I connected it to my pc,i was copying a movie into this and the device started to vibrate and copying stopped.....I tried back several times but couldn't succeed:( Please help:(
1|The product was looking gud frm outside. But when connected to my laptop it was not showing in ' MY Computer'. But device was detected and was showing in eject option. And the worst thing happened when I entered serial number in Seagate website for complaint log.. it showed OUT OF WARRANTY.
1|conkek out and you can't even have it picked up for warranty service. It worked only for a month till the flipkart return policy was active. Seagate wants me to drive to Nehru Place from Greater Noida, deposit the drive, come back in few weeks again to get replacement. Kidding me!
5|Product: Pros: This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm, it will easily fit into your jeans pocket without discomfort. Transfer speed - average 45 mbps to 85 mbps from the hard drive of your computer, average 30-35 mbps from another seagate external hard disc. 931 GB available space. Con: The only con is the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better. Now this one from Seagate is worth a buy it comes with mesmerizing looks,slim and yes the slimmest! light weight,small in size and can easily slip in your pocket.The power light is sleek and bright which you can turn on or off from Seagate Dashboard! The back up software is good and user friendly,you can make backup plans for your removable devices or for your entire PC(takes quite a while though) also you can backup all your social media contents from Facebook,Twitter And Flickr by just signing in and all contents starts downloading right into your hard drive! USB 2.0 gives a sustained speed of about 26 Mbps and I guess USB 3.0 will give around 85 or somewhat like that,usable space- 931 GB and this drives comes with exciting flavors(available on Flipkart),I mean colors :-P .... The USB cable is a short one but not much of a problem and dont forget to register your product via the Seagate Dashboard software... a 5/5 rating just go for it!
5|I ordered this product around 11 am on the 10th Jan. and it got delivered next day within 24 hours around 11 am. I was pretty desperate for it too. Well, I immediately transfered 47 GB and it took 40 minutes at speed 20mb/sec My PC USB port 2.0, Seagate comes with 3.0. then again tranfered 39 GB, it took 32 mins, 54 GB it took 47mins and 7.5GB it took 6 mins transfer speed being around 21mb/sec throughout. USB cable that comes with it is not that too short as read here. Its about half a meter long with the device connected. Well suitabe for PCs too. 1TB but actual storage or capacity shows 931GB (69 GB Short?) Previously, I ordered 16GB memory card from flipkart and I got it withi 48 hours (Collapse) Was this review helpful?
1|THIS PRODUCT IS VERY BAD.BECAUSE I FIRST OF 300 GB DATA LOAD IN THIS DRIVE.AGAIN I LOAD RECOVERY DRIVE.FROM THIS TIME ONLY SHOW RECOVERY DRIVE 31.1 GB ONLY.NOT SHOW 300 GB DATA AND 931 GB SPACE.SO CONSULT TO AMAZON CUSTOMER CARE AND SEAGATE CUSTOMER CARE BUT NO SOLVE MY PROBLEM SEAGATE 1 TB.
5|100% original product... It's been a month..... working perfectly.... no registration issues.....
5|Excellent product.... On time delivery i have purchase this product on 2014, this will rocks... awesome service & delivery Usb 3.0 port Looks: The Seagate Backup Plus portable hard drive's enclosure is made out of matte plastic that feels pretty well made, though I'd prefer aluminum for durability and better heat dissipation. Glossy plastic enclosures are hard to keep looking good, so kudos to Seagate for using the matte plastic instead. The back of the drive has the USB 3.0 port and there's an itty bitty blue power/activity light on top of the drive, towards the back. Also, there are small rubber feet on the bottom, to keep the drive from sliding around on your desk. The USB 3.0 cable is short, so it's best suited for use with laptops.
5|I received my hard drive few days back and now I am posting my review below 1) First of all I received product in very good condition. 2) As soon as I received it I registered it on Seagate website. So, no issue with warranty. 3) Its very slim and can fit in pocket easily but please don't do so instead of it buy a good case for it. I bought smartfish hard disk armour case for my hard drive. 4) Data cable built quality is quite good though its not very long but not very shot too. Also, its not loose at all when I connected with my hard disk. 5) Data transfer rate is quite good. 6) So far its working quite well. Also, I would recommend to choose Seagate over WD. Rest life of a hard drive depends on how one is using it.
1|I bought this product for almost about 5000/- INR and well as the name suggests it is supposed to be a BACKUP. Something that it has failed at being. Warranty wont cover the data loss and since my hard drive is now corrupt even the tech support team treats it like a lost cause. So the short answer is if you have a lot of movies that you are probably not going to watch and have a TV with this thing (I will not dignify this object with it's descriptive name since it hasn't lived up to it.) attached to your TV go ahead. If you want to backup memories like photographs, music that you have collected over decades then DON'T. Go for something else anything else, I'm so angry with this thing I'd rather have bought floppy "expletive" discs instead.
3|The price is less compared to other online stores as well as offline stores. The actual MRP on the product is RS.16000. Genuine product and I had registered with the seagate product registration website. The product is very slim when compared to my seagate goflex...
3|Amazon's service is excellent. Delivery was within the schedule time. Schedule date of delivery was 15.09.2015 but delivered well in advance i.e. 12.09.2015. Amazon has a facility to swipe the card for payment at the time of delivery. No need to carry cash for making payment. About the quality of Seagate HDD, it will be too premature to comment since I just started using. During my first use, It has worked well with Sony LED Android TV W800C series. No distortion in colour or picture, no breaks, no issue with start up and continuity. Actual Result will be known only after sturdy use. External look, size, dimensions, weight etc. are very good. Price has been found to be quite reasonable as compared to market as well as other online sellers.
1|Hanged on installing registration. 1 hour and could complete only 50 Mb of data transfer. Changed front to back USB ports of Desktop. Tried with latest laptop. Same result. Disappointed. Returned. Had chosen this over WD Ultra for mobile / social media backup.
3|In terms of looks, black is the best. But in terms of performance (via 3.0) it is damn slow. USB 2.0 is brilliant. But I guess that is common for all 1TBs. Compared to SONY and WD which I am using, I find it better (all 1TB under Rs 5000). Do buy this product.
1|Extremely bad product. I strongly recommend, Please do not buy this product. I bought this from amazon during sale, seems like amazon only sells defected products during sale. VERY BAD AMAZON!!! Just bought this product1 month ago and i have already applied for replacement under warranty from Segate. All of a sudden this Segate external hard disk drive is not working. I have stored all my important data and now i fear how i have to get my data recovery done. Has major manufacturing flaws. I fear loosing all my important data. This storage device is absolutely rubbish. They have promised a replacement in within 15 days. Lets see how soon i get a replacement of my Backup plus 2TB Silver colour external hard disk drive. I
5|The product is extremely good. It is more than i expected for. The usable space in the hard disk is 931 GB which is quite a lot of space. Let me note down the pros: High quality finishing with an attractive look. It also provides an additional 2 years cloud storage of 200 GB in microsoft server. Transfer speed is extremely good. I could transfer a 3.25 GB movie within 4 to 5 minutes. So I was really impressed by it. Cons: The HDD gets heated up but its not an issue coz its 1 tb afterall. No more comments about the product. Thanks to amazon for a perfect extremely fast delivery through FEDEX. But i was slightly dejected when it was sent through blue dart and the order got cancelled that time.
3|good performance in the begining but wont read after 10 months. now i have to replace it.
3|Today i purchased this hard drive it was working perfectly ,copying speed upto 30 mb/s , but i can't benchmark this device, and after usage of 1 hr this hard drive heating so much, i don't know how to solve this , otherwise hard drive is ok
5|After lot of comparison and check on perf/value for money i zeroed on this and m fully satisfied as of now, more to be seen with time. Excellent service by Amazon, placed order on saturday late night and monday evening I had it in my hands. Immediately proceeded with partitioning and backup, though my laptop does not support USB3.0 so couldn' check on that. Overall excellent looks and very compact. Go for it in case you need a backup device. Automatic backup SW there, works in background, but for now I am using freefile sync to just sync my lappy and HDD. Compared with WD ultra, trascend.. go for tracend only for more durability else for all its seagate.. WD was a bit costly..
5|AwsomE Product!! I love this product very much..I dont know why the peoples hate this product some fools are saying this product is bad and not getting warranty That means that fools dont know to register to get warranty please trust me! i SURELY RECOMMEND this product!! Because this product gives you 200GB of free One Drive storage that feels awsome !! and we can store our phone storage But I noticed bad in this product is They are not giving us a free carry case thatn feels bad . and i recommend you to choose blue colour for this product it looks brilliant and fixes perfectly in pocket and it is small in size Wow it feels awsome i recommend u to buy this product please trust Me !! LOVED IT!! AWSOME!!!
1|The Hard Drive stopped working after 1.5 month. No Drop No Damage to Hard Drive.
5|Thank u Amazon fr ur quick delivery of the best HDD one can have. :) Portability: 5/5 Speed: 5/5 Looks:5/5 Only con is that is gets a bit hot at times. I guess this is usual with electronics now a days.
3|I purchased this product today.......I expect atleast 100mb/s ......but its only 20mb/s in my Windows 8.1.......i am so much disappointmed with this....someone tell me how to increase this speed ......please
1|why the drive not working in 2 weeks?? bad product....not detected by any computer with in 2 weeks....all data lost....not returned by amazon either...buy these stuff from authorised retailer stores only...not from amazon
5|Awesome HDD..After 3 months due to virus my HDD got corrupt..got brand new HDD from Seagate in one week itself with renewed warranty..Awesome service by Seagate...HDD is good..fast transfer speed..Fast delivery by Amazon
4|Product was good and no warranty issue but really disappointed with packing. After discuss the same with representative, je assured for suitable action on the matter. But didn't got any positive regarding the issue
1|When I got this hardisk, it was running fine. But after one month,now when I connect to pc,it is not showing in my pc so please tell me what I have to do to repair this problem. It is in under warranty.
5|Good deal... Best thing is its size its very small and handy, could fit into my pocket Regarding the warranty it was a pain to get this registered Go to Seagate website and search for how to know your serial number there a link is give to download file which would tell you all the info regarding the Seagate drive you have bought after this the same software would also provide link to Seagate website and others updates and downloads in relation to your drive go for that link and then search for register the drive option it will register easily... Kind of twisted however it works, hope it works for you
5|I already have Seagate 1 TB External Hard Drive. But due to space constraints I wanted to buy another one. So I ordered Seagate 1 TB Slim Backup Plus External Drive. After mulling over the idea of buying WD, I stuck to the tried and tested Seagate. After comparing the prices on almost all available websites, I got the best deal on Amazon.in. And voila it was the right decision I made. Nothing against WD, as I have not used it, but Seagate works extremely fine. Its super slim and can even fit into your pocket if at all you want to. Extremely happy with the product. Would definitely recommend it to others.
5|Seagate THE name is enough, First I have chosen two other brand one of 3500 & other is 4000 to save about 500 Rs but my friends suggest about that particular products & there experience about it, that is too bad against the saving, then only after I came on Seagate. This product is excellent & having good speed, some other brands are offering lesser price but as mentioned above, So just think for quality because if the brand & quality is good definitely we will get good service & good product with proper warranty or guaranty & it goes long with you.
5|Firstly... Amazon's service!! Just great!! Reached before time and surprised me! Secondly... This device is much lighter and sleeker than the competition. It's got a white led light which makes it all the way cooler! We have here a USB 3.0 , i personally got 110 mbps of transfer rate from internal to external copying which is quite fast. Expect a maximum of around 150 mbps . What made me happier about the product was that i got it for 3700 ? !! Two days later it's available for 4 grand! If you are looking for a 1 TB HDD , light and stylish , look no more!
5|This harddisk is absolutely stunning. With write speed of 85 to 40 Mbps and read speed of about 105 MBps...you get for what you pay...slim design and compactness adds unto its beauty, although i'm unsure about the reliability once if i drop this. Being a mac user, i was initially worried about the compatibility with windows. However, seagate had inbuilt software to format your hardest to have both read and write attributes while using in both mac and windows, without reformatting. Overall, I find this product unto my expectations. I got 3 years warranty while registering.
5|At my end it comes with 931GB, out of which i can use only 930GB. Read / write data speed is impressive, i don't know my laptop is usb2.0 or 3.0 but i tried it on all ports and i got impressive speed. On one port it is round 22MB/S and on others ports its is round 27MB/S, which is not boring as others. Overall its value for money. Sour i will recommend it to buy my friends. there are few drawbacks with it 1.short cable 2.handle with care 3. no chase provided to handle. I don't have tried it on old machine like XP so don't know it will work there or not.
4|WORST PACKING BY AMAZON...THE ITEM IS DENTED AND DAMAGED AND WITHOUT ANY BUBBLE WARPING OR ANYTHING.AS A RESULT I RECEIVED A FAULTY ITEM.AND NOW AS A RESOLUTION THEY ARE OFFERING REFUND??????????WHAT A WORST SERVICE?WHO WILL PAY MY EMI PROCESSING FEE + CHARGES INCURRED?AND THE LATE CHARGE?I WILL NEVER BUY FROM AMAZON ANY MORE AND WILL DISCOURAGE OTHERS FROM BUYING FROM AMAZON.ALSO RAISE THE ISSUE IN CONSUMER COURT WITH PHOTO.I THOUGHT OF BUYING KINDLE YESTERDAY,BUT NOT ANY MORE AND NEVER IN MY LIFE.....NEVER BUY FROM AMAZON ...AMAZON IS A CHEATER......FLIPKART IS BEST....
2|Failed in 1 month. I have had a bad experience with these Slim HDD models. Although this is better (reviewed) than the WD 2 TB one, I prefer this model only because the PC board is not hard attached to the HDD (in WDD it is). But the Seagate policy to send out refurbished models (which are not even QC'd properly!) is a pain. I have a previous slim model which had to be replaced twice... And now this one which failed right on the 31st day of purchase. It's a pain to backup yet again all the stuff... , just a day after the return window :(
5|Really, really small. My last 1TB from Seagate was larger than this. And as soon as I connected to the USB 3.0 Port, the Read/Write speed showed up as expected. Backed up a 28Gb Game from Steam to the HDD, then restored the Backup to steam. As expected, nothing too awry or too different from the last 3 Seagate External HDD's I have. Only one issue though. The promised 200GB Onedrive storage spcae, that seems to be hanging with the Seagate Tech Support. I was supposed to get a link to activate the same on my Outlook account, but that never happened.
4|Unfortunately, when we do a search for this product on Google, we are lead to believe it has an aluminium case and little rubber feet. But because the seller doesn't talk about these features in his description, we are not to know it only has a cheap plastic case and no rubber feet. Therefore it can easliy slide around on the table and is at risk of falling and being damaged. Other than that, it's a good drive - very fast and as good as I'd hoped. Fast delivery and in cood condition, undamaged. Thank you for your professional service.
5|Received it on time. I ve a old laptop copying speed in 2.0 USB 25 kbps in 3.0 80-90 kbps, but out of 2 tb u ll get 1.8 tb. First I had problem with registering the product but later I did it. U ll get 3 years manufacturing warranty , although the seller told me it can't be register ..lol. Well built and slim .. Recommend you to buy a HDD pouch bcoz it don't include accidental damage warrenty. Over all gud product .. Thought of buying Samsung but major problem with service centers so bought this indeed... Chk for service center before u buy.
4|This is my first product online. I personally liked the product very much. Product: Smaller in size than a 5inch screen smart phone, little wider in width than a smart phone. Looks were good. Function: I have only USB 2 with my laptop. If the files size are bigger the transfer rate is faster. 34.6GB movies transferred in 30Min at a average speed of 21Mbps. 29.8GB smaller files (photos, small videos, music files) transferred in 55Min at a average speed of 9Mbps. Pros: Small size, good performance. cons: smaller cable (my opinion) over all very good product at this price. will update if i face any issues.
1|Seagate warranty sucks and the customer care does not even respond to your query mails. Believe me- when I say this as a user of Seagate HDs- all of them have failed and all are like 1TB and more. I am still awaiting a warranty based replacement on this product and they haven't provided any status updates. As per the product itself, it works smoothly for a few months, before proving to be defective (Code 10 error-drive failure). The only reason Seagate has more customers is because most of its competitors are not that widespread in India.
5|The finish of the drive is superb and very compact, Seagate is one of the best manufacturers of external hard drives and they have proved it yet again with this company powerhouse. True value for money.Amazon customer service was excellent and very helpful and they tried their best to make this delivery fast. 5*'s for amazon.Now returning to a product. I received it in excellent packaging surrounded by airbags. This product has 3 years limited warranty.It's shell is metallic. Also, its very slim and portable. Easily slides into the pocket.
5|I am really impressed with quality and size of this product. It is easy to carry and fits in your pocket easily and takes space even much less than mobile. Right now I am using usb2.0 and speed is around 35MBps for me and it is pretty nice. The option having mobile backup capability is very nice and innovative. Just download Seagate backup application on your ios or Android device, create a plan and push backup button every thing will be backed up over WiFi network(your laptop should be having harddisk connected to same WiFi network)
5|This s wat i want... Brushed metal black finish makes product wondeful.... transfer rate s affordable for me.... Go for dis handy candy 1TB monster ?.....
5|Amazing Seagate backup plus (2TB) drive. Works superfast on my USB 3.0 port. It has actual space of 1.81 TB. Slick looking and very portable. Make sure to handle it with care, as I am not sure of its durability. Purchased it on Amazon from seller named: "CLOUDTAIL". You can trust this seller. Packaging was good. Product is genuine. No damage to the package or item at delivery. Amazon delivery was superb and as promised. I totally recommend this Seagate Backup Plus 2 TB external hard drive and the CLOUDTAIL seller.
5|I am seagate user since 6years. i bought 1tb harddisk and got 5yrs warranty with that. so to be on safe side of not losing data i thought to buy this 2tb hard disk. to copy all 930GB data took 15hrs giving overall write speed about 100-125mbps. Product comes with usb cable, some documents. When you connect to PC it automatically registers itself. just go with the flow. Really slim pocket size compact harddisk. It has metal cover on one side and plastic on the other. I got the newer model with just logo. #Happy Go fot it..
4|Really good product from Seagate. Amazon delivery was on time.Got mine on 23rd Oct, 2015. Although the product registration through the given link did not work for me!! Anyways, I got it registered on the Seagate website on my own for 3 YEARS...) First thing first....The look and feel of the hard disk is really cool(mine is Silver). Its like zero size among hard disk drives..lol The speed is good too...via USB 3.0 i got file transfer speed of upto 80Mbps!! Overall nyc experience till now.
4|Below are my views on my new Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB. 1. The harddisk is packed properly 2. No Problem in registering the product. 3. Its working on my Windows 10. 4. It is easy to carry. 5. The transfer speed from lappy to disk is 25 Mbps. Transferred 10GB within 10 mins. Cons: 1. When I am connecting to my lappy (windows 10), then all the icons (folders, files and shortcuts) are displayed in white colour for some time. 2. When I am connecting to my TV then TV is got hang.
1|This is the second time I have bought a Seagate product and both times it has let me down...I think they have some frigging chip in there which recognizes when a year has lapsed and then it kills the hard drive...not only have I lost all my data, for the second time, I've actually ended up paying nearly 12000 rupees. I should have just taken cloud storage instead. The drive is not recognized by any computer...the damn thing just does not turn on...no support...no help....no care attitude, Do NOT buy...
3|I have one of this (blue) and is working well for about 4 - 5 months. I purchased one more recently, but found it to be defective using HDTunePro. There was just one bad sector in this brand new HD and i believe its not worth keeping it. I believe we shouldn't be spending our hard earned money in buying defective stuffs. Amazon returns was really quick - have taken it back with no questions asked - one major advantage is that your money comes back to you as your money and not as in e-wallet crap (awful seriously).
4|Brought this in the last week, working just fine. Though Blue color look very pretty with good packaging of Seagate, Amazon packaging was immature. @Seagate: Just missing built-in password protection application like WD. Go for it bcz- Much slimmer in its category Warranty as same as WD i.e. 3 Years 200 Gb OneDrive cloude storage which you can activate any time till June 2017. Internal Backup software works very fine and also privides hard disk/cloude storage option for backup in same screen.
1|wORST PRODUCT never purchase it please. I purchased this product and after 3 months it's not working. Bad product by seagate. Never purchase seagate
4|Genuine product and I got the exact 3 years warranty on registration. Product is good and quickly delivered. But, data copy speed via usb 3.0 is 20MB/s on average.
1|Some one please help me . I bought this product and it worked only couple of times after which it is recognized in my laptop . even the light won't glow when connected I tried all possible suggestions given in various forums but will not work even tried in Linux OS but no luck 2nd issue is that the first day I registered this device in Seagate and said successfully registered but now when I check for warranty it says no warranty details found for this serial number ..... Please guide me how to proceed further ..
4|this is fully compatible and workable with mac and is the slimmest hdd for a mac operating machine. good experience
1|Your courier services is very very bad I have received after 12 day I think. Please provide good service. Thanks
5|Amazing producyt. Seagate is much better because of three features which WD or other competitors doesnt have........Seagate is a lot slimmer drive, One gets 200GB of cloud space on microsoft onedrive, Seagate is compatible for both windows as well as Mac without reformatting. WD requires 2 seperate drives for 2 platforms. Another biggest reason is seagate has mobile/tablet wirelesss backup app where as WD doesnt have mobile backup. So go for seagate as easy backup. Colours are also really cool.
4|Though I don't have this but I have used for some time . It feels better than its competitor as its smaller and size and fits right in your pocket . For me Read speed was around -106 MB/s Write was around-105 MB/s which are quite impressive. It doesn't needs additional drivers and works well on native drivers . As its from the house of Seagate , you get the best service too. If its in your budget , you should really go for it.
4|Packaging was below standards. I was sceptical to even receive the product. Just a layer of plastic wrap on doesn't ensure safety of the product. Other sites have really great packing. Also the product has old logo of seagate. Logo was updated this year but it seems that the product was manufactured before. But doesn't matter as the specifications are same with just logo change. The product is very slim and small. Speed is also good. Got it over lightning deal at 3999/- from cloudtail.
1|The drive is faulty, every time I save a file it gets corrupted. Tried every possible way to solve this (tried chkdsk, tried complete format) nothing works.
5|This product is recommended. However, i will list some pros and cons: Pros: 1. Sleek and beautiful design. 2. Adequate transfer speed. Not phenomenal but workable. 3. Fast Delivery by Amazon. Cons: 1. 1.81 TB space available. 2. Product Registration is a pain. It took me around 10 tries to get it registered at Seagate website. So if u r having sm problems, keep at it. Eventually it will happen. 3. A case is must to protect this disk.
5|Pros: It has amazingly high speed of 110 MB/s. It is very slim and lightweight. Cons: Needs to be handled carefully
5|Expected it to be bigger in size, but was happy to see how tiny it is. Good part is I had checked before hand that it is windows and mac compatible, not that it matters a lot, but saves the hassle of running through paragon. The abovev was when is bought a black one in mid 2015. Recently I ordered a red one. Mind you everyone it's only the front panel which is red. The functionality is pretty much the same. Comes with a backup software. Haven't tried the 200 gb free cloud yet.
4|This hard drive has been in my wish list for about 2 month now. I was following the product to see a dip in the selling price and I could notice a small fluctuation. Finally I decided to buy this product when the price was 3999 (believe it). I have done all my ground work with regards to the selecting this hard drive and I was more than happy to have this. Rated the product 4 start since I just started using it. Will come back with a detailed review after using it for some time.
5|AWESOME METAL FRAME, WELL YOU GET ONLY 1.81 GB, DATA RATE IN 2.0 USB FOR COPYING WAS AROUND 36 mB/S, it wouldbe awesome if i brought the colour variants.
2|Packaging and everything was great. However, the box photo and the product contain the new emblem of seagate without the words 'Seagate'. Saw on other websites and also in the other Customer Photo Uploads here on this page that it should be the original Seagate emblem and the words seagate should also be present. Feels like a duplicate now. Anyone else faced the same issue. Have already ordered a replacement but I don't want to go to the trouble if it is in fact the original.
3|I bought this product through amazon. and it cost me around 3898 rupees. 1.compact and slim. So can easily carry any where 2. Price is also affordable 3. When transferred around 125 GB data and it took more than 2 hours.The max data transfer rate at starting will be 20MB/Sec and suddenly it will decrease to 13MB and some times 12 MB/sec.. Because of the slim body it becomes little hot 4. The item was delivered on time and the overall product is good.
5|Awesome drive value for money.. Bought this for 4k in amazon lighting deal drive is pretty slim as the name suggest fits in ur palm pretty slick and pockets to slight glossy look.. Got delivered in a day pretty fast.used getting around 70 to 120 Mbps..speed when plug it into USB 3.0 slot .its worth investing if u re running short on storage and plus u get 200gb of cloud storage Microsoft one drive whn u register this product..just buy without any second thoughts.
3|good one slim piece .......................... ....................... ................... ......................... ........... ......................... ....................... ................... ......................... ........... ......................... ....................... ................... ......................... ........... ......................... ....................... ................... ......................... ...........
4|Ordered first time from amazon .good packaging no delays. ordered on 16 june morning reached home at 17 afternoon. Really good hardisk small sized good for carring .good transfer speed. but after you connect to your pc/laptop sometimes it leaks current. doesnt affect to much but if you want to feel it you have to keep your hand and concentrate to find if it does leak . not a big issue but still Seagate needs to work on it .Otherwise its a great hardisk .
3|bought this product ....... in January 2015 now the cable is not working really disappointed with seagate selling such poor quality products....
4|i bought this hard drive to store movies i download which is a lot initially it looked good the quality seems sturdy and performance average not amazing after one month of usage the USB 3 cable became loose and now it get disconnected from hard drive with very little force which is not good. the writing speed i get on USB 3 port is somewhat between 70 Mbps to 25 Mbps when transferring 5 GB or higher files. but for this price it looks good so far.
1|i bought this product on 11th march 2015 ive used it for a while good product but noe its now working at all.... how can i calame the waranty...
5|I bought this hard drive recently from amazon.I chose amazon because it offered the lowest price. As expected, it reached before the due date. Now coming to the product, it is working well. I registered on Seagate's website, got the warranty information and my 200 GB storage on One drive. Data transfer speed from my laptop to the drive averages? around 70-80 MBps on USB 3.0. It does not require any driver or power source and is very easy yo use.
5|Just picked it up, so can't review the durability. But on first impressions: - It is quick. Transfer speeds are quite quick (reached 50mbps while transferring from another disk). This will vary based on the read speed from the source disk - Compact. It is slightly longer than my old WD 1TB hard disk but it is quite thin. - Partitioning was a breeze. It has 4 partitions (2 NTFS, 1 HFS and 1 EXT4) and works brilliantly across all platforms
1|I used to be a fan of Seagate. But lately I have lost all regards. I had ordered this one because my 3 Tb Seagate Backup drive crashed within less than a year and I lost so much of valuable data. Now this one does not work right out of the box, neither on the USB 3.0 port nor the USB 2.0 port. It doesn't even power up, neither on my desktop nor the HP laptop. Wonder what quality checks these costly devices go through. Wonder what the Seagate Warranty and Service team has in store for me now... Wish me luck! Update: The Seagate Warranty Replacement Service is really good. I was able to get both the mentioned drives replaced without any problems. You can file a warranty claim online, then drop off the hard disk at your nearest Seagate Service Centre. They will inform you when the hard disk is ready. The data is lost forever though after most hard disk failures. So make sure you have multiple copies of your valuable documents, photos etc., in different hard disks and ideally in an online drive as well.
5|I love it !!! 1. Delivered in 2 days, Wowww!!!! 2. Product Quality is very good. 3. Easy way to register in seagate.com. 4. Got 3 years warranty in Seagate.com. 5. Transfered my data to my Seagate within 15 mins around 65 GB- Speed 111Mbps 6. Over all am satisfied with my Seagate prduct and USB cable. 7. Packing was good us usual with bubble packing!! 8. Looking good, slim and weightless 9. USB cable is also good quality, 10. Worth for 4050/-
2|Hi guys. I ordered Seagate BackUp plus from amazon on 20/9/14 and received it on 26/9/14 For Rs.4214. Actually was supposed to be faster and better but I am really disappointed because its so very damn slow. Backup plus to usb speed is around 9mbps. Backup plus to system harddrive speed is around 6mbps System harddrive to Backup plus speed is around 2mbps !! Yes...!! 2mbps... Could you believe it? I have tried with my laptop too qnd its almost the same. Tried in win7 and win8 operating systems still the same results. I dont know whether its the fault of seagate or amazon for giving me not so genuine product. But ultimately I am suffering. PLEASE ..PLEASE...DONT BUY THIS PRODUCT. If it works well for others then atleast check well before you buy. Thank you.
2|First Day usage review I connected it to my 3.0 USB port in my laptop did not work, then i connected it to USB 2.0 it got connected. But the write speed is very slow at 19-20 MB/sec. There might be a glitch in my USB driver so i am waiting to check in other machines. I will give my feedback after i check in other machine (updating my machine drivers). I am giving two star because I really liked the compact size of the device.
5|It give excellent work.It is too light and slim & easy to carry.Enjoy it..............Thanks Seagate for great work. It gives mobile backup facility.
4|Perfectly working after use of 8 months .... Speed is pretty good on USB 3.0 around 100 MBPS & One more thing it's very compact in size.
5|Product: Pros: This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm, it will easily fit into your jeans pocket without discomfort. Transfer speed - average 45 mbps to 85 mbps from the hard drive of your computer, average 30-35 mbps from another seagate external hard disc. 931 GB available space. Con: The only con is the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better.
5|Slimmer and smaller than the drives I already owned in the past ... Worked faster and quick to format. I haven't had a chance to use the additional 200GB free cloud space for 2 yrs because once I get used to the free 200GB space I will have to either download that entire 200GB cloud to another hard disk and waste money on internet or continue with a yearly subscription. I personally did not like that additional 200GB offer.
1|its waste, not worth for money, very slow reading the data, dont understand, why it will disconnect for every 10 minutes, automatically,
5|I have testex this hard disc with my mobile moto g 2nd, this parfectly detected by mobile. And its working fine. HD is realy a slim very small in size and light weight that you can carry in shirt pocket easily. Its good product. I found this in very chipper rate in amazon may be they have tied up with segate. Over all its satisfied my expectations. Also thanks for amazon. Good service, good delivering time.
3|good product as expected... the product's transfer rate iss not so fast as expected in 3.0...amazon feedback is very good after sales..
1|Defected item with bad sector, Low speed, ie 10-12 mbps for data backup. Not Good item. Looks like seagate are compromise with quality.
4|Everything is great. Only reason i gave 4 stars and not 5 is because the USB cable that came with it is very small (just 18 inches).
5|Couldn't be more happy with this. I paid almost a 1000 bucks more compared to Paytm deal, but it wasn't there when I bought this, so no regrets. It's so slim, fits within my palm. Silver color is worth the extra 300 bucks, superior finish. Read/write speeds are super high, especially if you have a USB 3.0. Yet to figure out how to setup the 200GB free account with OneDrive. There's a catch here, it's only free for 2 years.
1|i purchased seagate 1 tb hard drive by placing order on amazon. i received order i used for 8 months and then instantly it is not getting detected on pc then i called customer care and fallowed the instruction but failed. then i attempted for data recovery. operator in front of me only opened the cover and shocked to see that hard disk is of samsung with outer cover of seagent. as i have opened so i came to know the fact
5|This is very useful product as its easy to carry around and works with most of the windows laptops/PC's. But due to NTFS format it does not work with other(Mac,Linux). Immediately after a week of purchase, the hard disk went bad, I took it to Seagate service centre, they replaced it in 15 days and since then this product seems to work properly... The service centre guys were friendly and kind of co-operative.
1|I am using from 1 year. Suddenly it was not getting detected by my laptop. I came to know that this is because of the poor quality of the interface for which the cable will be connected to the hard disk. Because of this it got disconnected multiple times. Finally the metadata got corrupted. I have recovered it using some DOS commands. But I got the same issue again after few weeks because of the poor interface quality.
5|awesome product... It's pretty slim.. U can even carryit in it pocket... I am using this windows 7 home edition and even in that it gives a transfer speed of 70-72 mbps even in non 3.0 USB ports. The installation process to get the cloud storage is pretty simple and takes no more than 5-6 minutes Max. But you have to install one drive along with it to get that extra 200 gbs. Overall a very satisfying product.
5|I'm switched to seagate after my ex-hdd toshiba become completely unusable :( , lost so much data, even though i recovered almost from my pc backup, i love this one, i never had any bad experiences with this, this one having accidental usb removal policy, so dont worry about it, you should buy one proper case to this if you values the data, i prefer Neopack 1BK2 2.5-inch HDD Case (Black) combo
5|Awesome Drive for Mac !!! Works well with My MacBook Air and Windows 8.1 without the need of formatting the drive.
3|Am not sure whether/why am the only one facing this problem or not. After taking back-up to Seagate Slim 2TB (SS2TB) from my DSLR and Pendrive, when I play videos from SS2TB in my laptop its coming as frame-by-frame and look like all image edges are multiples. The same video files when I copied from DSLR to Pendrive and play them on same laptop its running perfect. Both file types are in .mts format.
1|I had purchased this product on on 1/4/2015 from Croma Retail Store via invoice no SLF02A092010057640 for Rs.5,299/- and now facing problems. Back up job fails to resume . The warranty is showing as expired when checking on the website. you charge us such heavy amount and do not give us standard warranty of 1 year . Shame on you Seagate ! Please don't buy this product unless warranty issue is resolved
3|THE HARD DISK IS GOOD LOOKING AND SLEEK!!! BUT COMING TO ITS SPEED, IT'S NOT FULFILLING MY EXPECTATIONS WITH ONLY SPEED OF 54 MBPS IN USB 3 AS REGARD TO SEAGATE BACKUP PLUS WITH SPEED OF MORE THAN 110 MBPS IN USB 3 IT GETS HOT AFTER 1 HOUR CABLE IS OK (NOT TO SHORT LIKE OTHER SEAGATE DRIVES GIVES) U CAN PURCHASE BACKUP PLUS (NORMAL) OR SEAGATE EXPANSION BUT NOT THIS....!!!!
4|It so small it literally fits in a pocket. Its appears quite sturdy, well built. It appears as if dust can never enter it coz the only openimg is the usb port. You cannot even find a joint or something. The BackUp managing software comes pre-bundled. The available space is 1.81TB. Hoping it will never dissapoint me.... its a GREAT BUY. Totally VALUE for MONEY
5|As expected, received it as per the standard delivery terms (delivered on 3rd day). Its a very good model by Seagate. Very light, slim and compact. Have never used an External Hard Drive handier than this one. Functionality: Again, pretty 'Seagate' standard. No troubles or complains with loading or unloading of the data. No reason to rate it anything below 5 stars!
5|This is my review after used Seagate Backup for 3 moths. After 2 and half months unfortunately it got corrected, so immediatly called customer service they helped to back it up but I lost my data as there is no guarantee for data recovery. Because of below I given 5 start Customer Service Light weight and small (easy to carry) And 200 GB cloud storage for 2 years
4|Very fast delivery by amazon. Regarding the external hard disk. it is smaller than the 5.5 inch mobile. looks good. easy to use. maximum write speed i observed is 25 mbps. You can easily carry it in your pocket. i use ubuntu linux . backup software is of no use for me. May be windows users can use that. Overall good shopping experience at amazon.in . Product is as i expected. GOOD.
4|Over all a great product. Just that the cord can get tricky sometimes. Its a little short and loosely connected to the hd. At times a slight movement can cause it from being unrecognized by pc pr laptop. So for those who are looking for connecting to a pc cpu be sure that the length of cord is sufficient. Since i use it mostly on a laptop its not a problem for me!
1|WORST RATE.....ACTUAL PRICE IS 4775...THEY SIMPLY INCREASING COST OF 2TB RATE...AND DECREASING...AND SAYS ITS OFFER
4|Product is nice, works well for PC but for mac you get only read permission, you need to download additional software driver paragon NTFS for mac (for write permission) from seagate web page.
5|Amazingly fast, quite and running very cool. This is my first Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive but my third overall seagate portable hard drive and I am very happy with all of them... I have been using this particular hard drive for more than a year now and have faced no issues so far... In fact I have bought one more of this 2TB external hard drive....
5|awsome product by segate its really slim & portable warrenty not issue not any problem to register simple & easy?
4|As expected. Very decent read and writing speeds. Not much of sound while copying to and copying from the HDD. No considerable heating observed even after continuous heating. It doesn't support any kind of wireless backup through the home/office WiFi network. Plug and play, true to it's name. Couple it with a hard case as it seems a a bit delicate. Go ahead and buy it :)
1|it is userviceable,i sent to seagate for rapair.it was asking for format and my windows was unable to format it.
4|very very compact and very classy. V Good processing time. I was able to transfer my data to the disk very quickly. Though Amazon did not deliver it on time, but I have no qualms about that. The only thing Seagate could have done more was to give a casing like LACIE or others. As a product I grade it 8/10. I think Seagate saved on casing and protection of the device.
5|Very Good Product. But please note, Seagate has changed their LOGO. So, the newly manufactured products will come with their new logo. which you can see in their official website (www.seagate.com). So products shows in Amazon image and Actual Product can be differs on account of LOGO. performance wise both are same. So, finally value for money.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is really very useful. I transferred many videos and photos from my Laptop and reduced the burden on the laptop. The drive is compatible to my smart TV (Sony Bravia) and I enjoy watching all photos and videos in big screen without any trouble. It is really nice and I will recommend this product to everyone.
2|The port is loose and constantly disconnects. The devise if not recognised even with slight movement to devise
5|good for product and value for money and good and fastlly deliverd at my location i like it amazon services and product may be absolute good fastlly transfering speed in 2.0 usb so this hard drive is 3.0 usb but my pc has a 2.0 usb but good transfer rat 20mbps to 30mbps and i connect my new laptop 3.0 usb in connect so amezing really i shoked 65mbps to 80mbps
5|Yet another Decent product from Seagate. Its in constant use for 6 months now, no h/w or s/w issues yet. It's sleek, one of the best looking HDDs i have. I get 90MBps+ write speed when connected via 3.0 and 20MBps+ when connected via 2.0. Just one issue, usb chord is short, again that's the issue is with all the HDDs. Will suggest this product
1|I don't think Seagate drives are with the symbols given in pic. Seagate portable hard disk only has their registered trademark which is totally different from what has given in pic. Please clarify. The same drive is available at 7300 on flipkart. I really think that its not am original Seagate portable drive as trademark is totally different. Please clarify
5|very nice product, light waited, slim and perfect for portablity and backup. works with usb 2.0 and usb 3.0, easy to setup, no installation is require, just connect the drive to computer's usb port and enjoy. also provides 200 gb one drive storage. for this you have to register your hard disk on brand website with its s. no. thanks to amazon for this deal.
5|Awesome product.u guys should go for it.I was think with HDD should I buy and I was thinking to buy toshiba canvio ii connect at rs 5800 from snapdeal but my friend recommended me to go for seagate and now m satisfy with it.Am getting 60-75 MB per speed on USB 3.0 and on USB 2.0 its giving me 30-40 MB per speed.seriously guys go fo seagate hard disk only.
5|Beautiful little device, thin & it'll fit in your palm. Data transfer speeds are also satisfactorily high.
5|Only three words to describe this product completely- Sleek.Fast.Beautiful. Completely genuine. (Registered on Seagate website.) Transfer speed goes upto 130 mbps but on average it is about 40 mbps which is good. Now something about Amazon. These people are just awesome. Delivered the product two days before the expected delivery date i.e. in 3 days.
5|very good speed and look was excellent with segate 3 years warrenty it is one of the best hard drive
5|I'm not sure about other but I get the Hard Disk in very timely manner and before opening the package I did check the warranty on seagate's website by entering the serial number and to my surprise I got the warranty of 3 yrs 1 month and 23 days. So, my advise make sure from which seller you are buying it so its worth buying the product ;)
1|It worked perfectly for 4 months, and today it stopped working, like for many others, its simply not getting detected and beeps. Amazon only provides 10 days time to return an electronic item. This is a common problem with Seagate Hard Disks, simply buy other brand hard disks, Seagate has no data recovery policy. I lost 900GBs of precious data. :(
4|Nice slim hard disk... I have been using it for the past 1 month and haven't encountered any problem...
5|The product is good both look and performance both! But let me tell you one thing its very slow to work with mac. You have to wait 2-3 Minutes to get disk detected on mac... You have to keep it in extfat if want to use it on both mac and windows. If you have to use on Windows only and sometimes on mac, this product me best, best and best...
5|Excellent Product. Also delivery is as committed by amazon, even early than committed. Keep it up
4|I brought Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Red)four months back from amazon,it was delivered within a short time and the packaging was pretty good.As for the product itself,it is compact and has given me no problems despite a little rough use.Total memory available is 930 GB which is my only grouse with this product
4|This was my first purchase from Amazon for Rs 3817, packing was really good(much better than flipkart) and they delivered before the due date. Seagate Backup plus slim is really very slim and beautiful very impressed so far. Only issue is on USB 2.0 port transfer rate is 25 Mbps rest are all as promised in the product description.
4|The product was as per expectations.Moreover the delivery service was swift and satisfactory as well.
1|DO not buy this product.You can go for transcend hardrive.I bought this hardrive and within one week only it stopped working and all my data was at risk.I contacted seagate but they said that you will have to pay for the data recovery.And the quotation for data recovery was 50,000Rs. Yes serioulsy!! Worst service from seagate. Never go it.
4|I have been using this hard drive for over a year now. Data transfer over USB 3.0 and 2.0 is great. The only thing preventing me from giving it 5 star is that the USB cable that came with it is not great. Mine deteriorated after some months. Gor myself an Amazon Basics Cabell recently for that. Otherwise it's a good product for the price.
4|I purchased this drive on the Diwali offer. Great deal by Amazon. A slim and powerful external hard drive. Very handy and can fit in your jeans pocket. easy to carry as it is light weight. The only negative thing is there is no proper case/pouch to fit in this hard drive. The available ones are bigger and the drive slides through the case.
4|About Amazon service: Got exactly what is shown. no damage no fake. arrived on time. well packed. About product: Very handy and nice look. Space is exactly what it is claiming. I resigdered online for 200gb space on OneDrive. using that as well. More can say after using it properly Worth buy in affordable price. Thanks
5|This was my 3rd external HDD and second seagate HDD. Its good as we expect from seagate. Good thing is, seagate drives will work without formating in Macbooks. You just need to install their official driver once in your mac. This is what lacking in other brands. But for windows and Linux users this should not be a deal breaker.
3|Though the product is ok but I am curious to know one fact - "The image of red colored seagate hard 1TB shown on website is not matching (At all) with the product. The image shown here shows logo with "seagate" while the product delivered to me has different logo and no letters". Note: Attached photo for comparison.
4|Did a lot of research and finally selected this over WD My Passport Slim. Though the dimensions are more or less equal, this was cheaper. The looks of WD were better but to me, price was the deciding factor!! Product is good and works fine. The pack has only HDD & 1ft connector cable. The company should have made the cable size bigger!
4|Seagate never disappoints. And this pocket sized wonder gives you more than enough. While most people might buy the black colour, I bought the blue one because I have to colour code it according to the content. Plus, Reds and Blues take away the monotony from a black box. The delivery from Amazon was good and before time.
5|This hard drive I bought it from Amazon, the cheapest price than anybody else.... So far performance is good, very slim and stylish. Previously I owned a WD 500GB external drive, but this one is more faster than the other one. very much satisfied with the product. Thanks Amazon for getting me this drive for cheap.
4|this is one of the best hard drive slim small and light weight but there is only one thing that you have to compramise , there is only one light for connectivity so you cant recognize immidiately port of usb like other Hd have blue light for usb 3.0 and on regular white light ,cable long,you feel that hd is heavy bt it s 160 gm only
5|Very slim and light weight. You can easily put it in your pocket and I am getting a constant 107MBps while copying a single big file. The average speed is better than wd passport ultra hdds and not that bulky. And one more important thing the image shows a older version of the hdd but i got the newest version. Thanks to the seller.
5|The device is awsome and working perfectly nice.The usb3.00 speed of data transfer is fantastic. I could not connect it and able to make data transfer with USB 2 because it is not connected to the computer port with it. But anyway it is rcommended to others to buy from AMAZON with this discounted price and for PROMPT DELIVERY,
3|Neat item. Best part is the single USB drive connector changed on the higher side while the item lay in the cart. I purchased it little realising outside the cart the prices were still lower. I guess one has to be a smart cookie to review each purchase down to the last moment of closing the purchase
3|some pre installed s/w from Segate found as virus/threat in scan and can't remove also. strange!!
5|Really amazing product from seagate... After a lot of research I bought Seagate Backup Plus slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) for just 7000 bucks...cheapest and best in class...really thin and small...easy to carry...transfer speed is good. Got it delivered in just 2 days buy disappointed with the packing.
1|Guys,..I bought this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive from Amazon but within one month of use it stop responding when i plug it in. Due to this Internal Physical Damage i lost all my important datas,..photos,..movies nd all.... I even handled it with a lot of care bt still this happened...!!!!
4|Pros:- 1.Fast Transfer Speed.(65 MB/s to 130 MB/s) over USB 3.0 2.Extremely portable.very compact drive.Also very light in weight. 3.3 Years warranty. 4.the software with the drive for backup is very refined. con:- 1.It does not have any feet to prevent it from slipping on smooth surfaces.
4|The product is amazing however there is some discrepency with the warranty period. Let me take you through it... The product Seagate Backup Plus Slim was purchased on 18th July' 2014 through amazon.in & it got delivered the very next day with a 3 year limited warranty period. But to my concern the warranty when checked on the seagate official website it states the warranty period is from 6th June' 2014 to 5th June 2017. While I have purchased the product on 18th July 2014 then how could the product be already in warranty transition when the product is not sold to any consumer. Logically the product warranty should start from 19th July' 2014 & end on 18th July 2017 but to my surprise this was a shocker to my online buying experience. Question arises is this is a brand new product or its a second hand one given to a consumer ??? While there is no doubts that the product is excellent in its space but Guys please check the warranty period on the website to ascertain your doubts. However, I am still awaiting to get an appropriate reply from seagate on the warranty part.
2|I wanted a COD for this product. In tha app it is showing product is amazon fulfilled and COD available. But, when i select the product and select the payment option as cod, then it is saying COD is not available for this product. May i know why this is happening? After getting clarification only i will buy this product.
5|It is very light weight and ultra fast when used with a 3.0 USB Port. The best 1 TB Hard Disk.
5|The Amazon service is awesome.they delivered the product before 2 days of the delivery date and the product also been safely packed.coming to the hard disk it is great in working and beautiful look it has...it is easy to handle and consumes less space in my back pack.the speed of transfer is good... Worth a buy for 6.5k
5|i got this for a sweet price of 3999... gives me about 130 MBps copying speed. doesnt heat too soon like some others in the market. cabel is long enough not too long not too short. and its really really compact. fits in any of your pockets with ease. packing by amazon was nice. delivered within 3 days. looks realy nice.
5|I'm using the Seagate Backup Plus slim 1 TB Portable External Hard Drive from last one month and find it satisfactory, It's working fine and transferring the data with reasonable speed as I'm using it with USB 02, Have not yet use it with USB Port 03 at the price of INR 4150/ at Amazone.in I think I got the best deal.
4|Was confused whether to buy this from seagate thanks for the reviews on amazon... Am kinda in love wid my seagate backup pro slim 1 tb hard disk. Pros: * great looks * faster than ever * built quality * slim n fits anywhere n everywhere Cons: * could have been even more faster
5|1.Absolutely gorgeous hard drive in looks. 2.Speeds of 90MBps and 25MBps on average on USB 3.0 and 2.0 respectively. 3.build quality is OK -plastic does not complement looks. 4.small led indicator does not hurt eyes. Indicator is single coloured. 5.Heating issues are not as rampant as other drives.
1|Hi, I have purchsed this disk through Amazon. But it is giving error after connecting to laptop or desktop. Error is "You need to format the disk in drive G: before you can use it." Also it automatically gets disconnected and connected frequently. Can anyone share customer care India email address?
4|This is very slim, light weight, transfer rate is also good, It's been delivered by amazon within 3 days. Packaging was nice. I will highly recommend it , go for it, surely you too will like it. Most of the previous comment i found: connecting cable is short but i felt it's not too short , it's ok .
4|the hard drive does justice to its name and its very slim and portable. one can easily carry it around. also the back up feature is useful. the transfer speed with usb 3.0 is quite fast. again amazon gave a good discount as well as prompt delivery. overall i m happy with the product as well as amazon!
4|It was a pretty good product at a price much lesser than the market price. The device is slim, light and most of all, great looking and well built. The Amazon delivery was fair, took a little time, but nothing unmanageable (you gotta wait for everything good, don't you?) and the product was packaged well.
4|Very compact n light weight hard disk. The USB 3 cable is also sufficiently long. This hard disk is even smaller than my mobile phone. Also, it was delivered within just one day with free delivery by amazon, so thumbs up for excellent service. Overall, a great product coupled with excellent service n delivery.
3|its pretty good for a price like this (i got it for rs. 3850) usable is only 931 gb the biggest CON is that it isnt completely shock proof ! to some extent, when connected to tv or home theater, d lower part of d body when held passes current! so,not a big fan of that, otherwise its fine !
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim is the slimmest portable hard drive on the market. No complaints with this drive. It performs nicely, has good file transfer with small file size and compressed file transfers. Its not really slow even with larger movie folder transfers either. The casing could be bit stronger.
5|The best and very small 2TB HDD. Silver color look awesome. Data transfer rate is about 50-60 Mbps with USB 2.0 and definitely we can get much better and its real performance with USB 3.0 . Working fine with Windows XP too. No noise no heating. Registration of the product with Seagate is very simple and quick.
5|Outstanding product, it's a pocket hdd, small enough to fit in the left pocket of ur shirt. The seller should really mention this, I was very confused if it was the bigger one or smaller. All said and done, the device is amazing, lovely looks, good speed before time Delivery by Amazon. I loved it :)
5|After using this product for about a month now I came across the following traits of the product: - Its really handy - its fast - Its awesome - Amazon's delivery services are reliable as usual - the color of the product is very nice - shiny and beautiful - Its smaller than my mobile Nokia Lumia 625 ... Thank u
5|Ordered this so I can swap out the HDD of my PS4. Been a week and works pretty well so far. I put the internal drive from PS4 back into the enclosure and now use it as an external storage. No complaints.. PS: Not sure if this interests anyone but this storage device came with a Samsung HDD inside.
5|Really portable. The size is pretty much the same as my 1TB HDD. 2.5" HDD inside, so does not require external power. Good transfer speed, unless you are transferring a huge amount of data (>1TB in my case) in one go. In that case, the speed drops to around 24kBps. Highly recommended.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage & Mobile Device Backup (Black) Very nice and compact. If you are looking for an replacement hard drive for your PlayStation 4, look no further although you will void your warranty if you do.
5|THIS PRODUCT IS VERY USEFUL & IT HAS A FUNCTION OF AUTOMATIC BACKUP ONCE THE SOFTWARE IS INSTALLED THATS REALLY EASY FOR THE BACKUP & THE DELIVERY IS QUICK & QUIET A BIT INFORMATIVE SO YOU DIDNOT TO TRACK THE DELIVERY 7 YOU GET TO KNOW WHEN YOUR PRODUCT IS BEEN DELIVERED & OUT FOR DELIVERY ON YOUR ADDRESS.
5|Excellent product from Seagate. Great transfer speed (I only tried it in usb2 , it gives an average of 70-100 mbps.) Sexy Design, slimmer of its kind. Good Quality tough body and cable. No heating problem. The Negative part: Please keep it safe.. Beware, somebody may steal it. :)
1|This hard drive gets corrupted from time to time and now i don't have warranty and i have to pay for repairing the hard drive which i didn't damage. You can see the hard drive but cannot format it neither can you access it. I had this problem twice now and this is the third time . So don't trust seagate.
5|I have bought this after a long research and the lowest price was at Amazon. As expected quickly delivered to me the very next day of order. Seagate is the best company in hard discs and this one is an awesome product. Come with preloaded softwares and plug and play technique. My data is safe in this :)
5|This drive is very slim and is comfortable to carry with in your pocket. It gives me write speeds of about 130mbps on USB 3.0 while copying movies. You can even load your O.S. on it for dual booting. The software provided with it are great and will save you a lot of time in tedeious tasks.
4|Working fine as of now. transfer speed is good. could have been a little lighter.18 inch USB cord looks good. however WD My passport is better any day I feel that I got for my hubby. Wanted to try on seagate. there is NO pouch supplied for this seagate HD wch is disappointing. hope for a long run...:)
2|i purchased it on july 2014. its so exited when i got it. but after few months it asks for format (all data lost). And now a days it make an habit of asking for format on monthly basis. So recommended not to go for it if u want to keep important data in it. For movies and songs means its okay after all its just a storage no guarantee that how long it'll be there with you. Not happy with the product.
1|Bought this item on 9th aug 2015.. For 2-3 days it worked properly but then i started to face problems.. However i managed it.. But day by day the problem gets bigger and now the device is totally unrecognized and unavailable(not showing on computer).. Now trying to contact seagate for warranty claim..
1|I my office we are using more than 10 Seagate devices. After using few months we are facing same issue in all devices that is we are unable to open and also we can't recover our data . I will advice to all my friend not to purchase seagate products. Because all no support from Seagate.
5|first online product ever bought.. cool amazon delivered in d expected time.. and about the product.. just pretty cool..the slimmest.. nd am not getting on with high speed in my old note book.. usb 3.0 plays the real.game... just dnt thnk ..go fr it happily..!
5|Very sleek, sturdy design which makes it fairly scratch proof. Transfers data effortlessly at good speeds. The additional 200gb cloud storage is another bonus. I like that it is so handy and lightweight to carry around, even fits in trouser pockets! Money well spent. Would definitely recommend this:)
4|Stylish & sleak design, fits in your pocket. Good upload speed - it's everything I was looking for in a 1 TB external hard drive at the best price Rs. 4299 only on Amazon. Amazon delivered it in 22 hours - 3 days before schedule- well packed - mighty impressed with this global e retail giant!!!
5|Its a good hard disk small like a smart phone.. blue metallic color is superb.. seagate is a brand for a good HDD.. now seagate can also be known for stylist HDD.. you guys hurry up and grab it quickly otherwise amount is increasing day by day...only amazon gives less amount from others..
4|this is my 1st " Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB " and this one is from amazon ( reason - lesser price :D ) all good only issue is the shorter USB Cable length ( which is a problem with desktops not with laptops ) in total i would say jus go for it... \m/ update - 2nd one bought! :D ^_^ 8|
1|Product is not detected in my laptop as well as other PCs. Hene i had to give it back.
5|it is an amazing purchase ...... it is really slim and has a good design and the data rate of the transfer is so awesome !! ....... also 200 GB cloud storage could it be any better !..........although for the cloud storage you must do some registration and you should have an outlook account ....
4|The delivery was AWESOME !! Product is also great, speed is almost 90 MBPS in a sequential transfer, multiple transfers are slow but reasonably good. WD Passport has given a little bit better performance in sequential transfer , 100+ MBPS speed. But Well its Seagate, I am loving this purchase now.
5|Awesome!! Everything u'd expect from seagate plus more. It's very slim, fast and is built extremely well! So cheers to Seagate for that! Also delivery time and packaging were very good so keep it up Amazon! All in all it is the best hard disk at this price and is certainly worth buying!
5|Awesome product. Compact,small and light weight as a mid weight Smart phone or Power bank. Its really handy and fast in data transfer.Got it on discounted price during the offers season. Overall great product to have in your pocket with unlimited access the data and content.
1|Worst Product. Hard disk completely failed with in a year. :-( . I have lost my data.
5|I own an older model of Seagate External HDD. Compared to that this is so tiny. Hardly the size of a big smartphone hence can be carried around in your pocket quite easily. Blue colour looks good and the HDD file transfer speeds are 25mbps-35mbps. Overall, its excellent in every department.
5|It is a must buy product. Everything about the product is really good like Slim, Speed & Price. It is even smaller than my Smart phone. Really very easy for use also. The size & look of the product is most attractive. Amazon had taken 4 days to deliver it which is quite good.
5|The segate Backup Plus slim 2 TB HDD is really good look wise, weight, size & at unbeliveable price Rs:6999. The transfer speed on USB 2.0 is between 30MB/s to 60MB/s. I bought this before 10 days so i dont find any cons about this product. I will update you if i find so....
1|I HAVE CHECKED THE HDD WARRANTY I DOES NOT PROVIDE 3YEAR WARRANTY SO PLZ RESOVLE THIS PROBLEM OR REPLACE ME HDD
5|Save money by doing this I saved doing this and got cashback which is transferable to bank account Signup Directly using this link and follow the steps http://cashkaro.com/r=527673 I got this three months ago and I transferred this money to bank account its true
4|This slim model very convenient in size and easy to carry…performance is very good
4|Seagate name was not there ,so i am not sure whether the product is genuine or not. But this performance is similar and product number been verified at website which gave me 3years and 1 month warranty.Also been verified at cloud. Request to seller that please change the pic of product.
4|I like the Seagate Backup Plus 1 TB Portable External Hard Drive is an excellent product due to its usefulness, small & sleek size. However one improvement that can be done is some kind of silica or rubberise protection that can save the hard drive on accidental damage in case it falls.
4|Sasti-Sunder-Tikau... a virtue every Indian demands & pays for ! No whining or whirring sound....no heating...ultra light...super compact...decent speed...affordable price... yes...all qualities of an ideal Girlfriend... sadly offered by a gadget...irony of life :)
5|It is a super slim awesome handy hard drive. The size is just smaller than my mobile phone, thinner than it too. I love this product. Copying speed around 40 to 180 mbps over USB 2.0. I have not tested with usb 3. Metallic design is attractive and... nothing else to say.
5|The best thing about this is its size. Also its built quality is really good. Despite being much smaller than other 1 tb hard-disks it does not compromise with the speed. With USB 2.0, i do regularly get a speed of 33 MBPS and with USB 3, I do regularly get a speed of around 75 MBPS.
4|This product is very good and the speed of this hard disk is very fast.Its very slim and portable. We can easily carry even in the jeans pocket lighter then a tablet.I strongly recommend you guys to take this product as the service is very fast.... I just love amazon's service.. :)
5|The segate Backup Plus slim 1 TB HDD is really good look wise, weight, size & at unbeliveable price Rs:3809. The transfer speed on USB 2.0 is between 30MB/s to 60MB/s. I received it today so i dont find any cons about this product. I will update you if i find so....
5|I really loved how small it is compared to various other 1TB HDD by Dell , WD , Sony,etc. Easily fits in pocket and does feels sturdy even though it is very slim. Read speeds of around-106 MB/s Wirte Speeds of Around-104 MB/s (Measured on crystal disk mark) I would easily recommend this over my earlier Seagate Backup plus.
3|I purchased this product last week, everything was fine like shipping before time, delivery before time, but speed was so pathetic it only copied 8 % of 200gb data . so I had to return this product. refund was so awesome. Sunday I returned the product and Monday I got the refund.
5|Very Slim and handy.....at the same time works equally well....good transferring speeds upto 100mbps which i experienced. suggest also buy saco cover for hard disk along with it....keeps your hard disk safe and easy to carry.....very good cover at very reasonable price.
4|Needed 1 tb hard drive on urgent basis and price in local market was too astronomical. Purchased it from Amazon received in a days time and it is absolute value for money as it helped save some very important old data. Recommend to anyone who needs more portable space for usage.
4|Hi, The product registration went real quick without any hassle. The seagate logo on the product is little flimsy otherwise the product is very good wrt performance par. If you connect the drive to a USB 3.0 it works faster and better. Thank you
5|I purchsed this product got it with proper packing for that thanks to amazon for product and price of this product. Warranty update suscess fully. Working fine data transfer rate is ok. Data cable is small in length Size is compact as compared to expansion
4|it's a good product, my friend has been using it for quite some time, very slim. so i also bought it in diwali dhamaka sale.. Rs. 3899+10% Cash back on my HDFC card.. it's a steal ! got it delivered under normal delivery, it took me 4 days to get it on my doorstep.
5|Whoa couldnt find a better price than one listed here in any of the stores nearby. The size of the HDD seems to be too compact, almost fits the size of our palm. Also the lightest i should say in its segment. I had gone through several reviews online to opt this as the best.
5|I personally registered this online for warranty. No problem. Seagate is far better then transcend in speed, feel, looks, build quality and everything. Don't go for the military grading of transcend storejet 25m3, they are making people fool. Seagate is best
4|Pros: Slim . very handy and portable. We don't even feel it's in the pant pocket. Speed is good. In my USB 2.0 laptop it gives up to 40mb/sec data transfer. No heating problems Cons: If it fall down easily get marks on the edges. (In metallic frame)
5|Perfect one. Supports in windows 10 too. As usual the Two day delivery was awesome and there wasn't any delay in delivery. Seagate is a renowned brand for computer accessories, so trust would automatically come when choosing it. Spending Rs 6000 for this product is worth.
5|1.81TB free space available. Registration to avail 200GB of cloud storage did not complete even after upgrading my browser. Data transfer speed is decent at 10 minutes to copy 11gb of data on USB 2.0. Product was packed nicely and delivered before time. Thank you Amazon.
5|Got the material on time rather before time. Immediately transferred 95.4 GB, it took apx 2 hours time. looks wise awesome. However a pouch should be given to keep it. I ll update my feedback on the product later on after using it for 1 month or so. Regards
5|While I am writing this review, I just, inserted the new 2tb har drive in my laptop. product quality and delivery is awesome, so far. Got 1.81 tb usable space in hard drive. Got register in Segate site and got warranty till 15 Jan 2019. Will post more about speed.
5|I ordered for GOLD color which is displayed and the delivered Item was Black Color. Also Driver is not available on the internet and needs local installation provided by a mini CD , if CD does not work then there is a big issue. but what is displayed one i did not get.
5|it is very good product in this price comaprison to other brand. i buy this HDD last month & working very good - Slim - looks good - data transfer speed is good - USB cable length is OK. I recommend this HDD to all buyers. JUST GO FOR IT..
4|Hi Guys, If you are looking for a 1 TB hard disk, so you can choose this product. This is a good product and price is also compatible according to other side. Data transfer rate is also very good and it is supporting for USB 3.0 and 2.0 for both the options.
5|Excellent product got for very less price from amazon... got on 19 june 2014..till now no defects.. working fine.. very cool product..not at all heating... Recommended..writing and reading speed is very fast too. 3.0 usb connection, works with 2.0 micro usb wire too
5|Exceeded expectations. Size is very compact to be truly portable. Cost benefit ratio is simply unbelievable when compared to other offers online. Detected in a jiffy and you are ready to use it. Pretty fast transfer rates and has the right functions for a true backup.
4|This is excellent product to take care of you back up needs. The best thing about this item is the size of it. The product is no more than my Android mobile. The performance is good but small amount of heating is observed during usage which is not a problem.
5|slim, elegant, fast, quiet and comes with an excellent software suite that enables you to backup your cellphone to the drive wirelessly too as long as you are on the same wifi network as a computer the drive is plugged into. Seagate never fails to impress.
5|A handy hard disk which would perfectly fit in every ones pocket. The product is very small about 4 inch like a mobile. Using it for the past 5 months, so was no problem working good. The speed too is good. And the seller has shipped the item very fast. I'm satisfied
4|This is an amazing hard drive but the inly problem is that it give some slow speed (30-60 mbps) even by using usb 3 ports on my laptop (vaio e series 4 gb ram and 2.5 ghz i5) it starts with 120-150 mbps and then falls to 30 to 60 mbps otherwise its an amazing product
4|Its great i didn't find any problems so to speak. Seagate is a brand and with this economic price i say u wouldn't have asked for anything else. As far as the delivery goes its well packed. Only if a pouch was to be included it would have been a 5 star
5|The drive is best suited size wise.. its so thin n small that it easily fits in my shirt's pocket. Performance wise seagate never let u complain so go ahead and have this guys. Plus this is backup plus so you can backup all the needed stuff with the help of software.
5|The Price given by amazon was amazing. Pretty good product and I had bought the same for my cousin so I have not used it personally But it is seagates so what is there to complain and also you get Cloud Space. Best Wishes, Your Buddy
5|Not yet used it but I am impressed with its sleek design, I can store all my data(Photos, movies, games) and take along any where while travelling. I will not be bored with Seagate Hard drive. Happy with Amazon service they delivered the product within 2 days.
4|Very nice. I liked it very much, Very small in size Easy to carry....very small....i thnk anybody can take this without any tension..or having any doubts, Then amazon delivery is also good I got the good before expected... Thnk you
5|Excellent finishing. Wonderful performance. Delivered in an excellent package but was delivered very late and the delivering person behaved badly because I complained for delay in delivery on the day before delivery. But the product is perfect and value for money.
5|Best External Hard Drive to have! =D Its so slick and small.. Best comparison would be a cigarette packet! Yes, the dimensions are compact! =) With respect to device. It has everything Seagate has always promised. A must have for data collectors =)
5|Good product. Build quality is awesome,slick and metal casing. Transfer speed is awesome, above 110-130mbps on usb 3.0. Slimmer and sturdier than the previous Seagate portable expansion drives. Comes with Seagate dashboard and gives about 1.81 TB of usable space.
4|Amazing product in amazing price by amazon..i buyed this segate HDD in just 3699 Rs..It works very well till now ..the speed with usb 3.0 is nearly about 30-35 mbps wich is not so bad...the size of Hdd is nearly equal to my smartphone...overall product is worthy
5|Awesome form factor !!n a great product as expected from seagate ,it is compatible with both NTFS or HFS+ format driver avaliable to download which can be handy for use on Mac or vice versa .it also come with 2yr 200gb one drive storage .write speed also good .
5|It is a very handy one and a good product from seagate. I chose this one mainly due to the company quality and due to its slim size . i think even its durability is high as it has a whooping three year warranty. You will never regret buying this, just go for it
4|Product is working fine there is problem with seagate dashboard software other than that it's working fine Excellent Read/write speed very slim hardware build quality is excellent (once accidentally slipped from hand then also working fine)
1|I made a stupid decision to buy this product.. It worked for just one day after that it was not working... The worst thing was all my data were lost... Unable to retrieve it back... However my money was given back by amazon... But all my data lost...
5|Have been using this hard drive for almost 1 year. No issues. Its handy, looks very cool and works even better. I get a write speed of about 60 Mbps with usb 3.0 and around 35 Mbps with usb 2.0 . Found it at the cheapest price here and its worth all the money.
5|I had bought two hdds. Seagate amd wd my passport ultra. The build quality of this hdd is better than wd one. There's a metal upper body for Seagate hdd which looks great and feels premium in hand. Else the hdd is same as wd with no special s/w bundle added.
1|First time worst experience with seagate . I dont know wat the problem is but i know my hdd is not working at all. Got the package today but its not working at all excep the glowing led im not able to see the device in my pc. NEVER EXPECTED THIS FROM SEAGATE.
4|The HDD is good in design and the performance is also up to the mark in this price. The only thing that I would suggest is to make the HDD more sturdy and the grip should be rubberized. Overall, satisfied with the device...... Delivery was right on time......
4|Hard disk is fine.Its slim, light weight, very portable the only which is bad about this product is usb connecting point in the hard disk. The connecting point in the upper middle section of the hard drive becomes loose over a very short period of time.
4|Received Yesterday (before expected delivery time). Packaging was good and product was as described. Very handy and compact. Transfer rate is about 15mb/s. USB 3.0. Plug and Play. Rgeister the product on www.seagate.com for support and warranty confirmation.
4|Since I got this at the lowest possible price (3939) and this is my first hard drive, I am quite happy with it. Functionally, there are no issues and , as the name suggests, it works as an extension to your computer's hard drive with amazing transfer speed
5|It's been more than a year I have been using this. Great HDD. Good Portability, small in size. Although the cover it came in looked a little old, it was untempered and new. This hard drive could fit into your front pocket and it's not too thick either.
4|The product good. Starting speed is very fast 70mb/s, after some time speed slow for 20mb/s, easily handle, it comfort for ur pocket, one more thing size is so small & slim i like it, i think u can buy this product, but cost was varing one day after one day
3|Western Digital offers better external protection in the same price bracket, but this still is a pretty good hard drive. Durability like most Seagates is sketchy at best, since I haven't had one positive experience in my last 3 times having used a Seagate.
4|I still wonder what makes Storage so easy affordable ... however I don't have any complaints for this. buying from amazon was a great experience everything was picture perfect. The product : GOOD Packaging : Very GOOD Deliver : On time
5|Fast transfer rates, although registering the product took some time. Got 200 GB Onedrive cloud space added to my existing MS account for 2 years, which is awesome. Do we need the seagate software installed whichever laptop I plug into the HDD?
5|Only a few weeks into using it, but speed is excellent on XP SP3 USB 2.0, though not yet measured gb by gb terms, it is very cute masterpiece and I love it, so far no difficulty experienced! It is easy and extremetly quick to connect and disconnect too!
5|Excellent product. Thoroughly satisfied. The product is small in size and very thin. Its extremely portable. Got consistent transfer speeds of around 60MBps when transferring large amount of data at one go. Does not heat up at all.
5|The slimmest memory bank in its category. Copying speed is excellent, Moving speed is good. Built quality nice. Memory as by Windows 10 PC-931GB, by Seagate Dashboard software-999GB. So it's better to use Seagate Dashboard to get maximum memory in use.
4|No issues,.also we are having a CLOUD STORAGE facility. Only thing i felt bad is ,..1TB with 200MBCloud storage they had mentioned, but i had 927MB as the maximum storage capacity out of 1TB. But everything is looking good and much better to carry too.
4|THE HARD DRIVE IS GOOD WITH NO FLAWS. THOUGH I HAD NO IDEA ABOUT ITS WARRANTY SINCE THE PACKAGE DIDNOT CONTAIN ANY STANDARD WARRANTY CARD FOR THE HARD DRIVE. BUT THEN I CHECKED IT ONLINE BY GIVING THE SERIAL NO. OF MY HARD DRIVE AT THE SEAGATE WEBSITE.
4|Drive is ok. During Online warranty registring I got warranty for 3 years and 1.5 Months! Haven't used software provided on disk, because I don't want to use for backup of my computer now. Go ahead and buy though price fluctuations of this drive.
3|The hardisk was delivered on time on time in a good packaged condition. Looks slim and neat. Seagate dashboard software give a good interface for scheduled backups. Only option yet to try is restore, which on the first glance looks little cumbersome.
5|It's compact, power packed and works as fast as if its a flash drive and not a 2TB. I had to transfer 1TB from an old hard drive in to this new one via USB 2.0 port. It worked smoothly for 15 hours straight without getting hot. Perfect buy.
5|Good product, good transfer speeds, mainly.. The product is original.
1|Very good, slim and compact size like iphone 5, only issue is i ordered white and the usb cable is of black color. PRODUCT IS GOOD, BUT THERE IS NO CASH BACK OR ANYTHING WHICH IS WRITEN ON AMAZON WEBSITE. THEY JUST SIMPLY LIED ON WWW.AMAZON.IN.
4|Excellent, so handy, good looking. But i am not satisfied with seal of hard disk box. The seller might have opened the seal. The seal is not as the manufactured will stick on the box. Before dispatching the product seal should be checked,
4|Its amazingly fast as well as 1 TB of space is enough for any type of work. the only disappointment i found was that being 1TB the actual space in the device is only 931 Gbs, otherwise the device is value for money as well as storage.....
1|Very bad harddisk i bought this 2 weeks back and now after copying almost 1tb of important data from my previous hdd to this so as to sort out and rearrange everything this is not working and i m very very angry at myself for not going 4 other hdd
5|PLUS POINTS : (1) Unimaginably fastest write and read speed when connected to USB 3.0 (2) Tiny, small, cute product MINUS POINT : Beware, a VERY DELICATE outer plastic covering. Suppose, falls even from 1-2 ft height, all content may get crashed.
4|Very fast delivery. Packing could be better instead of just a thin layer of bubble pack sheet. Product Sr number on the manufacturer's carton and actual product is different. Hope this does not create problems if warranty claim is to be lodged.
5|This is a good product. I have bought it mainly to backup my laptop hard disk by keeping my movie collection in it. So far no problem. Outside of hard drive is not made by metal. My suggestion is to buy a good cover for the external hard drive.
4|Good Product ,light weight, slim design, register on web site immediately, warrenty found 3 yrs. Data transfer rate is superb 21.5GB data transfer only in 18 min. But one thing is bad that memory found only 931GB while Drive is 1 TB.
5|This product is great. I expected it to be of palm size but it is slimmer than that which was nice. I would recommend all to go for this product. Along with HDD please buy Saco Shock Proof External Harddisk. It will protect your HDD very well.
5|purchased dis last week fr Rs.6990 am very much satisfied wit it. -amazing speed both fr read & write 60 mbps. -very slim -even smaller in size compared 2 passport. i would sure recommend dis guys.........
4|Product is good.Has met expectations. There is an issue with "Safely Remove Hardware" feature.With no apps of the hard disk running,it would still need an 'unlocker' or one has to shut down to remove it safely,one out of 3 times
4|Excellent no problem so far slim & perfect for travelling or otherwise. Price a consideration and transfer speed(speed varies- benchmark) otherwise a perfect 5 star. Amazon delivery/packing and tracking of order found satisfactory.
5|First of all, good amazon experience. Got it delivered on the day I was promised. Secondly, coming to the HDD it's great. Decent read and write speeds of about 30 Mbps. Really sexy design(it really is very slim) and light weight.
5|I ordered it on 31st December 2015 and it delivered on 5th Jan 2016 through ATS. Price-3990/-. Packing was Awesome. I unboxed the 1TB HDD and connected it to my laptop. Firstly the driver installed. Available space 931 GB. When you have to check the warranty simply click this link:- http://support.seagate.com/customer/en-US/warranty_validation.jsp and just put your serial number and model number from the box. After submitting you'll see that the warranty for 3 years has already been activated by the seller you purchased. Warranty has already been activated for 3 years from the date of order but the registration of the product you have to do yourself. To register your 1TB HDD simply click this link:- https://myportal.seagate.com/consumer-identity/product-reg/product-reg-base.jsp after you submit your details and then you'll get a option for signup. Better option will be you do signup. After registering successfully, a THANK YOU windows opens and below it you'll et a CLICK TO GET ADDITIONAL SPACE OF 200GB FROM ONEDRIVE MICROSOFT. Then you click the link or if it is not opening you simply click this link:- https://preview.onedrive.com/seagate/en-US?key=6bg7j0cpDdiNCdpow3oHzcahjSvKi3eYfsELKVK0PcjYuHwTd3oC5EIc0eINNu8GTEXE8BaA%2FOq7Q6LlvscHSXqFPN2376P4d77pIhF7YyHpGQtcGwIwVCytUS18W9kuKjYUUUrq0wNyV5PbAiMDeA%3D%3D if you already have a Onedrive account fine it's well and good otherwise you have to signup after completing this process you have to accept the T&C of Onedrive. After signing in you'll see that 200GB has been added to your account for 2 years. I got this on 5th Jan 2016 and I registered the product and signed up a Seagate account, after it I automatically got the 200GB in my Onedrive account. You can download Seagate Dashboard by clicking this link- http://www.seagate.com/in/en/services-software/apps/seagate-dashboard-software/ for computer and mobile backups. This product is great go for it. The new Seagate logo has been changed and I got the new logo product. If any further queries regarding warranty or registration of 1TB HDD, contact me at email- abhinabapal@ymail.com
5|What a marvellous product, really..segate you have nailed it again..Seagate drives are running on my computers from 2007 and believe me till day I have never faced any crashing issues..i have formated computers several times but no issues yet... Okay...the first word which came to my mouth after opening the amazon.in package was WOW! the HDD is super slim with metal body which gives it an edge over other HDDs. I have also used Seagate Expansion HDD which has plastic body though it gets the work done the extra cost you are paying for this slim drive is worth it...man...this drive gives me a tremendous speed of 125 MBPS on my Asus laptop via the USB 3.0 and it comes with seagate dashboard software which has extra added feature to backup your Mobile phones and Social Network pictures which give you more utility than other Expansion one.. The drive doesn't get heated-up much and looks well built with light weight...the metallic cover is total scratch proof...the seagate logo is also shiny one....I love that pulsating white LED also!!...one more suggestion don't handle the drive roughly cause it may damage it as HDDs are prone to shocks....
5|Thank to amazo.e for keeping guinineness of the product as well as the delivery time but just because of delivery boy i lost 15 percent on this deal... because he didnt bought swipe machine... otherwise the product is really really good...
4|Good compact hardisk, slim and fast. Size is almost about 5 inch smart phone. Easy to carry in pocket and easy to use. And of course comes with segate brand name. Register your product for warranty and warranty start from date of purchase.
5|No complaints after a month of heavy usage. I use it as a Time Machine backup without any issues whatsoever. The small size is just right for traveling and the data transfer speed is very fast - which is not a surprise since it is a USB 3.
4|I have taken this product but it shows only 931GB only and I don't know remaining storage. I didn't expect this much of storage reduction. For my PC out of 160GB, I got 148GB but for Seagate backup plus slim 1TB I got only 931GB
5|I saw many online store that this item was available and out of that i have chooses Amazon because of reasonable price. The Segate Backup plus also satisfied my need in each and every aspect for backing up my personal data.Great product...
4|Its a great device for backup. The speed of transfering the data is also good. I recommend the device for personal and office use. The most important feature of the device is it is ultra slim and can easily slide into your pocket, bag etc.
5|I saw many online store that this item was available and out of that i have chooses Amazon because of reasonable price. The Segate Backup plus also satisfied my need in each and every aspect for backing up my personal data.Great product...
5|Wonderful Product. I ordered this with 2 day delivery. Got it within 48 hours. Hatsoff Amazon Fastest Delivery. Original Product. I registered in Seagate website. I see warranty as 3 years 2 months. Very Slim I can keep this in my pocket.
3|The cable I got was faulty. I get frequent disconnections whenever I move my laptop even by an inch. But thanks to Amazon CC, I ordered a new cable, I hope that will work, or else there's got to be some problem with the hard-disk itself.
5|1. I could directly connect this storage deivce to my sony blueray player. All videos played. So it was amazing. 2. Its very fast and easy to copy the files. I transferred some 60GB data from my laptop to this hard disk in few mins.
4|Best things about this Hard disk, 1.Light weight 2.Slim 3.Black color coating make it looks really good 4.LED light will tell you the status 5.Less price in Amazon 6.Quality product and 7.I like it
1|It is not a 2TB Portable External Hard drive but only 1 TB drive.
2|It was going great. But stopped working suddenly. Now their customer care can only replace the device with a new one. No guarantee about the data stored on it. I have to recover the data from market which will cost at least rupees 6000.
2|Built quality is okkkk. But speed is dammn tooo slow. It takes 50 minute to cut and paste 30 gb data from my lapyy using usb 3. To slow. But good option against WD my passport ultra So sleek design is very good
4|A very good product by seagate.... Very sleek but also delicate... Packing by cloudtail was not up to the mark with no bubble wrap else everything is fine.... I have bought this hard disk for backup not regular use so for me it's fine
4|It's good but if you want to buy a hard disk go for a WD My Passport . It's definitely not worth buying for a home theater cause it's light messes up the home theater experience. in case you are using for storage purposes it is worth.
5|Want to Buy 1TB hard disk..close ur eyes.. Amazon+Seagate....D best..... Great Transfer rate with USB 3.0 port... 2.0 and 3.0 compatible... No prblms At all...I m using it for last 3 months.... :)
4|Pros: Slim model, easy to carry anywhere in pocket. Data transfer speed is good. Made for rough and tough use. Cons: Data cable is short, While copying large amount of data it gets heated alot......
5|Awesome Hard disk Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External hard disk gives me fastest speed for data transfer. this HDD is very use full for me. and it gives me One Drive support for backup my data automatically.
5|It's really useful. and the speed of reading and writing of data is really fast. You can carry it in your pocket also, it that much slim !! I copied almost 250GB data from my laptop to this within 45 to 50 minutes or less then that !
5|The product was as assured. Packing was good and delivery swift. Overall very happy with the service. As for the product, it's very handy and easy to use. Seagate as always has lived up to the expectations. You won't be disappointed.
5|Bought this since it was cheaper than buying couple of 1TB hard disks :) The drive is small and very convenient to handle. Biggest plus is, it doesn't require power. For such massive storage capacity, this is a great deal.
4|I had bought this one with a backup strategy in mind. But unfourtunately the Sw i.e. segate dahboard doesn't work well it just hangs and is extremely slow. though the product is good for price we will have to use other sw for bakup.
5|What else can i say...good deal...2 TB of storage....Seagate Brand...so small for 2TB...so convenient...it does everything you throws at it flawlessly...just loving it...buy it...keep it...store in it...u will never be disappointed
3|some time not connect to PC i have to face problem.. with this/
5|It's very fast, I store many of my games and music projects in it....... And it's doing good from 1 month....... I really love it smaller than my wallet ?. I keep it in my pocket something and everyone thinks it's my hanky LOL...
5|it is light weighted and very friendly in use. you can carry it any where very easily. i have good experience with it. if you are looking for device which takes care of your complete data then go for this solution .
3|It is very efficient HD. But on the day of purchase it was said that items having values more than 5000 and if the payment is through citi bank then I am supposed to get cash back of 1750. But I didn't get my cash back till now .
2|No file transfer takes wirelessly from mobile phone to the drive although mobile shows the files being transferred. But when you check the hard drive no folder exists containing the backup. I am using it just like portable drive.
4|Delivery: On time Packaging: No bubble wrap, poor packaging Product: Very good. Sleek design, metallic finish. Registered online. Transfer speed: About 200~230 MB/s Overall: Very good product. Go for it.
5|It's slim, stylish and portable. Copy speed is good with USB 3.0 port. The best feature is mobile and social media backup which works excellent. It's a must buy if you are looking for a complete storage solution for your devices.
4|Great Drive, I am using it to backup my PC and MAC, however the bundle tool does not support Time Machine. Had to partition and format (mac ox extended) the drive to use it on the Mac. While the backup software for PC works fine.
4|Great product. High density, very compact and portable. Delivered on time. The only minor compliant is that the case ordered together did not get delivered along with the hard drive, but came in separately after a couple of days.
5|Great looking product, small enough to keep it in your shirt pocket. Simple process to get 200GB backup on OneDrive. USB 2.0 speed is good. This support USB 3.0 but I have not tested Look out for price and grab it
5|The Seagate BAckup Plus Slim 1TB portable external HDD is a classic example of miniaturization of components. It is small, handy and works across desktop computers, and android phones. The copying and extraction speeds are good.
5|The quality of the product was good.I have been using this product since months.It doesn't give me any trouble.The transferring speed was good. The product size is compact.Go head for this product if anyone looking for 1Tb.
4|I bought this one during Diwali dhamaka sale, as I was already looking to buy one for some time. Good price, speedy delivery and quality product. Was really happy with this one. Thanks Amazon. Himanshu
1|Stopped working after one month, started making clicking noise
5|Amazing Finish, Light Weight and Give a Decent Transfer Speed around 31 Meg For Me, I Got it only for 4370. Red Color is Costly in all the other Websites. Got Delivered in Just 3 Days as Promised. Thankyou.
4|Very light and slim. No vibration during data transfer. Software could have been much better, even though I have scheduled to back up every week, I don't see any notification to remind me to connect the HDD to my computer.
5|This is one of the best hard drives available in the market for this price. Seagate has really manufactured this keeping in mind the mobility of the stuff. You would ideally want to keep a hard drive in your pockets or carry in your bag. The weight is unbelievably light(0.17kg) but also they haven't done any trade off whatsoever in terms of build and quality. It has an aluminium front end that shines magnificently and nice coating on the back. The only negative you could say is the cable given which is short in length but that's hardly any worry. Coming to the transfer speed I could transfer 30gb of data from my laptop in 15-20 mins of time. The speed is quite fast and there's other features like social network backup, smartphone direct backup and others which I haven't got a chance to explore yet. All in all a really good product and I got it at a very discounted price as well. As usual, I have no quibbles regarding the service by Amazon. Got this product in under 2 days. Excellent!!
5|Working absolutely well. Speed is also good as described. The Amazon people delivered it on time and it was well packed. And i received it the way it is expected to receive. Good experience with Amazon and Seagate :)
5|Nice hard drive. Back up from smartphones to HDD wirelessly was amazing although it takes longer time compared to the USB wired connection... Overall I'm happy with AMAZON'S quick service and the Product as well!!!!
5|Seagate external drive purchased from Amazon was found to be very good in respect of writing speed and general performance. It is slim and portable to best my liking. I strongly recommend as very good external storage device.
4|The latest backup plus looks different from the one given here. Its not very 'slimmer'..but yes it is and it is also looking smarter. It cost me 5000 for a TB. It came with 2yrs warranty and 2 yes of cloud storage.
4|The product is very useful and working fine. Would recommend it to others who are looking for a compact high capacity portable hard disk. The size of the HDD is unbelievably compact. The only con is that it heats up at times.
4|I Received the Product at the estimated time, and as i use it, i feel it's quite good at speed as well as quality! The drive is small portable so i'd recommend it to anyone looking for a decent small drive with large space :)
5|this hard dis is super fast on a USB 3.0 port and is slim and stylish on the go. you will be surely impressed by the size and the quality,and seagate trust is there to assure you of best product service and performance.
5|After using both WD and Seagate, I can tell that though Seagate may charge you some extra bucks but the quality of hardware and the consistency of performance is much better than WD. Go for it guys. Very highly recommended.
3|The product is fine. You can go ahead to purchase it....!!!!
5|Good product at good price during the Sale. The transfer speed i got in USB 3.0 is 98mbps max. The cloud storage is not working not able to login to use the 200 gb cloud storage. Segate should look into this matter.
4|- when i ordered this product the delivery day was 8-10 days but i hot the product in 4 days and the product was totally OK! and working properly.. and talking about the seagate hardisk company is totally fabulous.
5|Yes it is nice and little cute product. I own 4 of the same model. All works well. Tested speed with Blackmagic speed checking utility SW connecting to USB 3.0 port. I get above 100 MB/ps read/write on this small wonder.
5|GOOD LOOKING SLIM PORTABLE DRIVE THAT FITS IN POCKET .ALSO WORKS WITH HIGH SPEED WITH USB 2.0,COMES WITH 931 GB OF FREE SPACE .THE 3 YEAR WARANTY IS ALSO TRUE.THE PRODUCT DELIVERY IS VERY FAST.MUST SAY THANKS TO AMAZON.
1|Yesterday i did transaction 2 times to purchase seagate 1TB HD, but after transaction i got message that your order is cancelled two times without giving any valid reason from Amazon. Finally i booked HD from snapdeal.
5|This is the so far best External Hard Disk i have ever bought. The Write/Read speed is excellent...The highlight of this product is its size its even smaller than my Cellphone.. 1TB Storage in your pocket its awesome..
5|Hdd is very sleek compared to by 500gb Seagate portable hdd... Cable is short as many mentioned, but that's not a show stopper... Overall we can trust Seagate.. I am writing this review after 1yr if usage.. Good buy..
1|When I register the product It say warranty is already expired in 2013 where I have purchased product in October 2015. How amazon can sell the product when warranty is already expired... Need to have legal battle now.
5|This product from Seagate is excellent. Its very thin and could be carried easily in pocket. Additional 200 GB space on cloud*** Compared to other shopping websites, I got it for low price from Amazon.
4|i bought this product from amazon, the delivery was quick and i received within 2 days. This is a perfect product and is slim too and easy to carry. Wish the chord was a bit longer nonetheless a true value for money.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB is really a nice product..... I received it in excellent condition... performance is upto the mark,,, Itz really handy... u should go for it... itz bst in 1TB category
5|No issues what-so-ever!! Using it as a simple hard disk. Backup and other features are not tried by me. Still, pretty good transfer speed, slightly better as compared to transfers between USB 2.0 and 3.0.
5|No issues with the product or the delivery aspect. The product is as advertised. Classy looking red color. Easy to use, plug & play. I am connecting to USB 2 port so I expected speeds of 20-25 Mbps. Can't complain.
5|i already own one in black color, and it has performed well till now bought the red one now, and boy it's sexy....I'd say it's worth the little extra bucks And Seagate has always performed well for me....
5|Sleek and fast. Build quality is excellent. Slim enough to fit into my jeans pocket. I don't think it can take a fall as good as its big brother, but you are not buying it to throw it on the wall, are you? :-D
5|Product is excellent and the price was comparatively very cheap from the market.. Bought it for 6500/- with 15% cash back on HDFC which comes to around 5525/- as the effective price... Delivery was on time...
5|No issues with warranty registration. No issues with getting 200Gb onedrive storage. The drive is sleek and works like a charm. Gives me 25mbps speed on USB2.0. Time to grow my movie collection.. :)
5|they are selling new hard disk ,they need to update the photo of the product the hard disk is good and data transfer happens at stunning speed. the size is small,can be easily carried in the pant pocket.
5|Its a fantastic item and performing well. decent trendy look, easy for carrying., and above all the SEAGATE the brand one can rely. The delivery and purchases from amazon, uncomparable with any agency. excellant.
5|Awesome product... Small in size, great body design. 931GB space... Worth the price. Also very high transfer speed. Got the product in 1 day in excellent condition. Highly Recommended. Going to buy another one!!!
3|I love the product. it's working very fine. max speed i noticed on USB 3.0 is 106MB/s ans Min speed is 54MB/s i rating is purely because of delivery delay otherwise i would have given it a 5 star.
5|does the job perfectly!! It is sturdy,fast and durable. It comes with Seagate Dashboard which helps create backup of your PC AND MAC. It can also be used to create cloud backup. A nice, clean software interface.
5|Excellent Product.. Excellent Performance... Excellent Service....... Perfect Device to carry backup. Design it so elegant and handy.. Will 101% recommend to buy if someone is looking for. Thanks Amazon. :)
5|It's working very well without any problem... Thanks to Amazon for timely delivery and lowest price (SBI debit card offer)... About the product +: Small is size, Easy to carry like mobile...
4|I got it for my daughter who is doing B.Tech . She told me to get Seagate external hard drive . The slim 1 TB silver were extra she was not expecting . She is mighty pleased with it , no complaints . I am happy.
5|Awesome product! Specially if you are a mac user then this drive is made for u It comes with paragon for ntfs drivers and Seagate dashboard app which is great! I hope my comments were helpful
4|Seagate backup plus slim 1tb hdd is good in performance and the speed is 30mb/s. As the hdd is portable it is easy to carry and also we can carry in pocket. If you are looking for 1tb then this product is good.
4|Pros: -So Slim -Transfer Rate is good while transfer of S/w and large files -Plug and play Note: carry case needed so try to book one along with this.... Delivered in 40 hrs
1|Don't buy it...
3|connection wire is loose which create problem some time.
4|Must recommended these days as demand for the data is touching new heights. Always keep your backup safe with this good looking, portable and pretty fast Hard Drive. Works nicely with my Macbook Air.
5|Fantastic Hard drive... thanks Amazon for speedy delivery and for giving me at the lowest price of 4246.00 that too Red... feeling happy and it works well thanks for sharing it .... i love it...
4|Nice, slim, stylish HDD. It has a Metallic body, which adds an elegant look to it..:D Performance wise, it is doing fine. Reaching a speed of 55-60 Mbps when transferring videos. Average speed is satisfactory.
5|Great Product. Very slim, very fast, very good price. Great buy. Attached software helps to Backup without intervention. The hard drive is nicely encased in metal casing and is very sleek and solid.
5|Received the product before time. Though packing was not so good but received intact. The product is very compact and its size and weight is lesser than the 500 GB of other make which I am already possessing.
4|The HDD is a great looking device. Very sleek and fast. I have already made it my main back up device for my lappy. It can back up your mobile also, but this feature requires more exploring at my end to apply.
5|This version was INR 500 extra as compared to the regular 1TB version but the extra cost is totally worth the convenience. It is much smaller and lighter than the GoFlex 1TB version which I had bought earlier.
4|Overall the product is good, delivery is fast and received the item some days before the delivery date. The item body is made of plastic..so puchased on case..its don't get heated up even after prolonged use.
4|Product is good. Arrived at the right time. No heat initially now after continuous usage, lets see in future. Well Support with 3.0 USB Drive. Go for it. Good Product. Worth for your money. !!
4|I am extremely satisfied with service of amazon and the product. Its sleek and smooth in looks and in function too.. you have good option for backing up , including your cloud storage too !!!.So far so good..
4|Very attracive design. A valuable Product. Lower price . No doubt it is only from Amazone obtained this SEAGATE Product for a lower price and with fast delivery . Registred the Product with seagate website .
5|I got this product for 3999/- only. I am using this since last 2 months. Good product with excellent smart look. Data transfer rate meet your expectation. Overall very good hard disk. Must buy don't hesitate.
3|I received a defective piece, thanks to Amazon, it was collected back by them and money is given back to my account within 3-4 days. I suggest amazon that replacement should also be considered for such cases.
5|As known Amazon has best in quality products and so is delivered to me. Arrived in proper time and the product was intact. Product Review: Awesome performance, Good speed, also secure. Happy to have it.
5|the external harddisk is quite good. it has memory of 1 tb nd look it also nyc. a good product within reasonable rate. service of amazon is also good, as I received my product after 1 day of order.
4|A very good usefull product.I brought it @ 3865.00 INR.
5|Don't think too much. It's super slim. And USB 3.0 I have a Seagate expansion hdd also. Using it for the past 3 years and not a single problem. Seagate only makes hdd unlike other companies.
5|Very Good, ultra portable 2TB drive with very very low power requirement Works with my Old Samsung TV. my old 1 TB HDD is is not supported my TV but this works. Got speed upto 70 MB/s.
3|Just now , got this product.. it is quite slim and short. In this prize range you can got for it better than transcend and dell Hard Disks .As of now good.. Testing it.. will provide second re view Shortly.
5|Very slim and handy. Works very well with MacBook Air 11". I have parted the drive in two sections. One for the Time machine and other as the normal hard disk. Working well and also no heating issues .
4|Quick delivery!! Good hard drive, very slim and light weight. Upper surface is prone to scratches though. But you gotta handle it carefully. Transfer speed is slow, otherwise I would have given it 5 stars.
4|Easy to install n works faster and fits in pocket like a wallet....Only issue was the warrenty.As the s/n and p/n is not matching on website.But solved that issue with great difficulty with Seagate people.
4|Good Product by Seagate . You can store upto 1 TB . But when you need use in both windows & mac you need to install the software provide dated by senate. apart from this it is awesome drive for tech guys .
5|Nothing to comment on the product, its small and compact and that is what I was looking for & value for the money ;) Delivery was on time, which is most important. In my case it was WYSIWYG
4|Good storage for the price. USB 3.0 is a plus, been a year since I bought this. Sometimes the USB 3.0 wont work with USB 3.0 add on card. Native support for USB 3.0 is fine. Great speeds even with USB 2.0
1|I purchase this product 30 days back,i hardly used it. One fine when i wanted to use,the device is not getting detected. I tried to search for Customer care details,i cannot get proper details.
2|Basically, You are Cheating with the people in the name of price. I had Bought this for 6375. & the same day it is reduced to 6150., Please maintain the trust level towards customer. don't loot ....
5|Got a very good price, the delivery was on time as promised, the device works good so far, no complains!! Hope Amazon lives upto its promise in case of any fault in device..... Keep up the good work guys
4|The product is extremely sturdy and very much as per my expectations and requirements. The one star which I decide to take away is because it doesn't let me have the 2 GB storage because of some glitch!
1|I had bought this in June 2014. It worked properly for some months after sometime it started creating problems how ever I managed it but now hard disk is not detecting. I don't know whome to complaint.
4|I liked the speed of delivery.But i am not completely satisfied. The reason there was no option to pay via card with COD. It would have been great if amazon provided option to pay via card for COD.
5|Amazing product by Seagate. This is smaller than my Nokia Lumia 625. Extremely slim, lightweight and a nice metallic finish to it. I got a warranty of 3 years. Works fine. Best in the market. GO FOR IT.
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB was excellent in handling with. Its simple, small and weightless, in other way, its easy to handle, while working with USB 3.0, the data transfer rate was very fast. Lovely.
4|the product is not working properly. i lost all my data and it become raw hard drive and when i formatted the data transfer is too slow. some times again it got a raw partition. can i get a replacement?
5|It is good in performance. namely and safely delivered. logistics service is better than others but in some cases price is not market competitive. check price in others price too before order. thanks .
5|Nice hard drive. Working fine till date. One should be careful with the data cable provided. Any time if you feel that hdd is disconnecting automatically. That would be right time to change you cable.
5|very good deal from Amazon built quality - 9/10 good price light weight very silent small in size No heating problem copy speed- 80 Mbps (USB 3.0) / 25 Mbps (USB 2.0)
4|Transfer rate varies from 60 to 90 mbs. Compact. Portable. quick startup when connected. cable length short but reliable, disconnects if slight movement on the usb port slips from table if not careful
1|It is very sensitive. Got damaged easily. I am really not satisfied. No details of service centre in the web. Even though I am calling to the service centre, the call is not connecting. Worst response.
5|Had already 3 hard drives of seagate and never had had any problem. So Seagate was the natural choice. This one looks good too. The packaging however was rotten. Not a SINGLE bubble wrap around it !!!
5|Just Loved iT It is Seagate So Got to be awesome But Let me tell u the design in this hard disk is best i have two segate hard disk both portable but this one is more sleeker and sexier
4|Ah, so much capacity in such a slim piece. Was in love with it since my friend bought it and then I went ahead and got it too. Doesn't overheat too much and has great transfer speeds even over USB 2.0
5|size and looks : 5 transfer speed : 4 value for money : 4 Actual memory: 931 GB Overall I like this HDD, specially because of its looks, build quality and also it is light weight
1|It crushed in just one day. I have lost my 70GB data.
5|Getting good write and read speeds. Ofcourse depends on the file types but with zip getting arnd 100MB/s read and write speeds It's really slim and small. And looks good, finishing is also fine.
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Disc Drive purchased through Amazon.in is working well. The services provided by Amazon.in are wonderful. Product delivered before stipulated time.
5|The seagate HDD is working fine, and we are satisfied with the performance and the size of the hard disk is also very nice for handling purpose.I started recommending the item for some of my friends
5|Excellent external HDD. Its fast and runs on both Mac and Windows OS. Because of this feature I choose to buy this. Its so slim and looks very attractive and beautiful. I just love it.
5|Working fine till now...!! No complaints.. But the backup software takes a lot of space and provides only 931 GB. I suggest you take the simple one, that is, without the backup option.
5|service is very good delivery is very good lasting period Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) is very small you are easy to carry in your pocket anywhere
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is the thinnest portable drive on the market that gives you up to 2TB of storage space. Pros : *Very fast ( 20/mbps on my USB 2.0 and and close to 97/mbps on USB 3.0) *USB 3.0 and backward Compatible with USB 2.0 *Includes helpful backup software, and works with both Windows PCs and Macs out of the box. *Easy-to-use management software (Seagate dashboard) *Affordable. I got mine for INR 6,990.00 Cons : *Cable is somewhat short and you need to careful while removing it as it may damage the port *Gets hot after prolonged use Overall its the best slim portable HD available when it comes to performance as well as price per TB
4|Delivered on time . ...the hard disk is so slim and micro. Easy to connect and use. It specified that its usb 3.0 compatible but I am not experiencing that speed. Its only 27-30 mbps speed transfer.
5|Really good HDD, on time delivery from Amazon. Been shifting the hardrive between my xbox one and macbook pro and its fast on connectivity and transfer. Light weight and small can carry in ur pocket
5|Its too good..awesome..I got it on the next day o purchase..Nice service amazon.in..The product working above expectation..I could not believe that I was able to keep this harddrive in my pocket..;)
5|First thing first...Amazon Delivery is at its peak...Good Job. the beauty is,.. the size of the 1 TB hard drive is half the size of my Mobile. Good built quality and great transfer speed.
4|Very good product. I was looking for deals on hard drive and also checked it in US during promotional periods like thanksgiving but amazon made it available in India with similar offers.. Great work
4|Pros:The product is good. Good Design. Excellent speed fro 3.0 Speed is average (for 2.0). Cons: We can observe Light jerking when we touch with palm (pointer moving).
4|Good product.. I received it much before the estimated delivery date.. Good packaging as well. One small thing though.. The colour of the HDD is more Maroon than Ferrari Red.. But nice nonetheless.
4|Amezon service rocks. I got the product before promised delivery time. About the hard disk I'm getting 25Mbps.. Easy carry...really compact Metal design looks pretty smart..feel rich
5|Looks: 5/5 Speed: 5/5 Delivery by Amazon and packing is simply awesome... Got my device in less than 24 hours of ordering... It looks slick and awesome... Copying speed is also amazing...
5|Amazon as always gives the best product at best prices with record time delivery. I am highly satisfied with this drive. Its slim and handy. Transfer speed is fine for my usage. Overall a good buy!
5|Best in class product from Seagate. Trusted and reliable. Slim and light weight form factor. Easy to use and connect. Super fast USB transfer speeds. Must buy!!
5|Its really amazing price and product also very good.
4|Size is less than my palm! Build quality is not bad.
5|Amazing how quickly technology moves forward. It is so much thinner and lighter than my 1TB Seagate I bought just two years ago. Data also copies to and from the external hard drive super quickly.
4|I bought the item from cloudtail. The hard disc is just awesome, very slim, small, handy and have large data storage space. If you are planning to buy a hard disc you can definitely go with it....
5|Happy customer. .had ordered this product from cloudtail and i got the product on immediate next day in bangalore. .packaging was good. .product is also good. .slimmer than wd my passport ultra. .
4|What to say, Bought it for PEANUTS not exactly, However for the best price that you can get anywhere. Product is authentic and upto the mark. Works great and does it quite well what's it made for.
5|The USB 3.0 speed lives up to its name as i have such a port on my new laptop. The device is extremely slim and can be carried in one's pocket. Also, makes hardly any noise and performs admirably.
5|Cheers to Amazon!!!! I have received my Hard disk well before the expected date and it is working fine. Thank You for the exceptional care you take in packaging. Chinmoy
5|Delivered on time. Packaging was good. Now about product: It is very compact as shown in pictures. I use it with usb 2.0 and gives R/W speed around 17Mbps. Works witout any noise.
5|From some online reviews I was known that this product is not so good with Windows XP, but I think it's wrong because I got very satisfactory service from this product with Windows XP. Thank you.
5|First i thanks to Amazon for the lowest price and quick delivery. The item is very slim and very low weight. It's working as well as super fast.totally iam very happy to purchase the Seagate HDD.
4|This harddisk is so slim and handy(shorter than phone).loved the design coz it comes handy on travelling.Data speed is almost same as other hard disks.Didn't find much difference in that section.
3|Looks n works great,I m happy with Amazons service .but somehow the price seemed to be changing by few hundreds wen i was still deciding to buy this,when i first looked at the product it was 3999 and when i ordered it,it was already 4200,which is weird,i tried clearing the cookies and looking for it once again,it still showed me the higher amount,as i.required it Asap,i went ahead and ordered it.after the order i went ahead n rechecked the price,to my surprise,it was 3999 again.this was upsetting n disappointing.this is not my first purchase at anazon and m very satisfied with everything i ordered from here,but.if things like this continue to happen,then i might have to do a lot of thinking before buying.
4|Disk is good. Less noise compared to my WD hard disk. But I am not very comfortable with the backup software when compared to WD backup software. May be I will get used to it in the coming days.
5|the product was excellent and service of the seagate was fast and hard disk is too sensitive should be handled with care(dont fell it down any time if you fell it down your hard disk is lost)...
4|Good product. Though unable to install Toshiba connect software on my Win 7 pc. Have contacted manufacturer, they have replied few times but not been able to help to install on my pc.
5|A very small handy and speedy drive. USB 3 support makes it really a breeze to transfer data. I have partitioned the drive for Time machine and Win compatible storage. Prompt delivery by Amazon.
4|I liked the Product very much slim and good looking and very light weight. But the Packing was ordinary...Please pack it properly. 4 Star for No Proper Packing else 5 star.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive meets my expectations, For Fast, light and reasonably compact So,if it’s a hard drive you’re looking for,the Seagate is ideal.
4|A good product. Dashboard application to manage the sync process is helpful. Design-wise very neat. need to use it some more to have a complete view of the good and the bad of this product.
5|I have used Seagate drives in the past and they have always been reliable. My old 320GB Seagate external hard disk which is just out of warranty (> 5 years old) still works fine
5|The hard drive has a good design, it is really slim and compact. The data transfer rate is also top notch. There is a 200 GB cloud storage that comes with this. Great product & value for money
5|Slim & portable with a 1TB storage keeps you entertained wherever you wish. Weight isn't a concern as you won't find that bothering. Keeps your data safe without burning a hole in your pocket.
5|Excellent Slim drive, I believe Seagate is better then other brands in hard drives. This Slim drive has better casing quality then the previous version, and looks very sophisticated
5|Quite satisfied with the product!! Superb looks, light weight, amazing transfer speed(usb 3.0) and an awesome design finish to show off as well ;) Would definitely recommend it :) :D
5|It is a 1 tb hdd , capacity you get is around 970 gb . warranty is for 3 years .Its beautiful both visually and technically . buy it when the price is around 4000 +/- 100 as price fluctuates .
3|Hey..It was working earlier but not working now.. My hdd is not connecting to my laptop now.. It make a sound in my lappy but doesn't shows in 'my computer' .. Please help what I do now..
5|decent hard drive at 4k, speed of around 30mbps while writing on it. Better part over seagate expansion is that it is relatively more compatible than later and can be carried easily in pocket
5|It's Sleek, light and looks awesome. For 2TB it's super light. Looks like a device from future with its design. Has support for OSX as well, so you can run it both on Win and OSX. Great buy.
5|Really compact in size and works perfectly with my Mac and PC... And main advantage only single USB port needed unlike in Transcend which requires two USB ports. Finish is also really nice...
5|Wow.. Very quick delivery. Less than 24 hrs from the time of order. About hard disk: It is small. You can just put in your pocket. Performance is good and lot of good features in it. Good buy
5|The item was delivered faster than expected and I only paid 3.6k for this .and that was an offer that I couldn't refuse .and the packing and the condition of the product was perfect as always
4|Good write speeds. But HDs can be reviewed convincingly only after a few months of use. Had a prior experience where the HDD packed up after 2 months, and all my backup data went up in smoke!
5|I really appreciate amazon.in for its effort in online purchase.. Nice experience and original product. Customer care helps in clearing doubts in purchasing the product in online very useful.
4|Very good portable unit, i am satisfied with this.
5|As description,great product.slim.transfer speed is only 2mb per sec.cable quality is not that much great.got it in lightening deal with 10%cash back.waiting for cash back.easy installation.
5|Delivered in 2 days after placing the order... Satisfied with this product... Although it is made in china and assembled in Taiwan.. But product is good for backup my data... Thanks Amazon..
5|I received the item much before the due date. it is a nice piece, slim and can be carried in trouser pocket. I have been using it for last one month and have faced no difficulty in using it.
5|Amazingly compact HDD for a 1 TB capacity. Starting to use is also as simple as plugging the HDD in USB port of your computer. Being USB 3.0, the RW speed is great. Over all, recommended buy
5|Amazon delivery service was excellent. The product was well packed. The disk was very slim when compared with a wallet so it is easy to carry any where. Will get a total of 931 GB capacity.
5|Very slim, and beauty. And also very fast. size is half of the smart phone size. fits well in the shirt pocket. It has amazingly high speed of 110 MB/s. It is very slim and lightweight.
4|Nice and light weight product and more slimmer than I used before any external HDD. No issue about the product. It would be nice that the seller has bought swiping machine while delivery :(
4|This is Superb & Slim Hard Disk.. ->Looking great and very very Handy... ->We can easily carry this in our pocket also. ->It's came with Good Packing Condition...
2|Most of the time it got struck while transferring the files.. And sometimes even not able to connect to the PC.... Worst ever transfer rate of 0.03kb while transferring files above 1GB....
4|My Review is product is OK.Speed while copying is little slowing while copying data after 1-2 hours.Probably that is understandable. Due to festive season product was delivered late,
4|very good speed... portable.... like this product
4|quite good, only deterent is the in built software which is quite irritating and failed to load on multiple attempts. Using it without the software may not allow you to protect your data.
2|Average product. At first the speed seems to be nice and steady. After few months the device got malfunctioned and the system is unable to detect the device. Didn't find it upto the mark.
4|Received the product on time. Quality is good, copying speed reaches 30-50 mbps but it drains too much power from devices (mobiles and tablets) while using else its great product to have.
5|Great Buy at good price, Plus the blue color looks really good too. Add to that the fact that it is slim and compact, makes it very easy to carry around. Cant go wrong with this purchase
5|A very good buy.. loved the compact design (The size of a pocket diary) and Seagate obviously promises reliability.. :) Thanks to Amazon for quick delivery and excellent packaging..
3|Its very delicate . I dropped the hard disk once and the edge of the hard disk was damaged . Performance wise its good . but its delicate and need to buy a hardcase hard disk pouch
5|Awesome Product and very fast speeds. Works Fantastic with upto 90 MBps R/W speeds. Very Sleek and stylish design and also got the 200GB on One Drive activated... Just go for it guys...
5|Excellent external hard disk. bought it for use with my Amkete multi media player, works very well on MM player and LED TV USB port. Excelent data transfer speed with USB 3.0
5|Really slim, small and light weight. Compatible with my mac without any reformatting. Disk already have the setup of the drivers required for both windows and mac. Very good copy speed.
5|Easy to carry and easy to use. Just Plug and play, GUI is also provided to to take a backup from different sources. Just WOW ... to make your data available with you any where any time.
5|Amazon delivered me the product well in advance. Love the design, love the finish and it's not made of plastic. Amazing build quality. Very good speeds at USB 3.0 Must buy for everyone.
4|the only reason, I din't give the 5 star is because it's only one month that I'm using it... like : small size, light weight, easy to back up... dislike : til date, nothing...
1|not good quality that too brand like AMAZON.....
4|Good delivery Team...satisfied with the product.
5|The people who are posting that there is problem in registering the product are fools. I did not encounter any problem while registering it. JUST IGNORE ALL THAT S***TY REVIEWS!!!!!!
5|Great product. Very portable & accessible. The file transfer speed is good, owing to USB 3.0. Overall very satisfied with the product. Let's see how it performs in long run.
5|It's slim.. Slimmer than I thought it would be. And fast too.. Getting 50Mbps transfer speed on an average.. It's worth the money! I would definitely give 5/5 without a second thought!
5|smaller than i expected.. smaller than a 5 inch phone...working fine till now....plastic is not that fine seems to be breakable if a good pressure is put on it....matallic by sides....
5|Very Handy and good metal finishing...data transfer speed is about 10to18MBps in USB 2.0 and it is functioning very well with TVs and Settop boxes besides The laptop.Worth of money...
5|It's amazing. I got it 2 days after ordering. Amazing pack from amazon. It is lighter than any other hard drive I've heard of. Also it's lighter than my Xperia Z1. It deserves 5 stars.
5|I really don't know what to look for in a hard disk. But this one has a nice slim look, metallic body, compact cover, 3 year warranty and reasonable price. So I think it's a good buy..
5|long awaited, 2 tb disk came at last. first in indian market as far as my info goes. amazon is first to launch it. very easy to run,good prices and with back up facility,its best deal
4|So far so good , got the package delivered day before yesterday.. Amazon and FedEx services are amazing.. Seagate Dashbord Backup is superb.. Go for it... value for money...
4|First thanks to amazon to deliver this product in remote area.This hard disk is slim and light in weight which make its look attractive.It's working very good and got 3 year warranty.
5|Ultra Slim portable HDD.USB 3.0/2.0 both compatible.Transfer speed is very good as compare to other brands. It comes with 3 years warranty . I really like its super compact size.
5|Really good price. Impressed with its form factor, build quality and weight. Its even lighter and smaller than my 500 GB Toshiba. Only problem is that its get hot on the surface.
5|Connect with USB 3.0 and get a high speed of up to 85-90 Mbps. On USB 2.0 speed was around 26-27 Mbps. Sleek design,small and very handy HDD. Easily fit in your pocket.
5|Import from Singapore. Shipped from mumbai. Still warant for 3 years working when registering product. 200GB one drive redeemed. I hope all software work on windows vista.
5|Nothing gets more sleeker than this 1TB monster! I found the speed to be reasonable and does not heat even in continuous usage. The best part is the blue metallic finish. Loved it :D
4|This product looks very nice, compatible and durable also. could not give 5 star due to avarage data transfer rate even with USB 3.0 port. Otherwise best product in this price point.
5|Excellent hard drive! Awesome download speeds! Very gud looking, luks classy and very upmarket! Totally worth d price! N wid d backup plus software, no fear of loosing my data!
5|Best hard drive ever. Has a lot of capacity and now I can easily store all of my files, not to mention that it's very portable. Quick delivery by amazon as well. Must buy!
4|satisfied with the product,look,function only delivery was delayed.look is awesome handy,very portable it would have much better if Data cable was longer in length............thanks
4|Got it delivered within two days of placing the order. light, slim with a led, pretty ok in copying the data in terms of speed. Buy it if u need it. Thanks
2|lookwise: 4 speedwise: 6 little bit heavier then western digital hard disk. if you dont need back up feature, then dont go with seagate, go with western digital.
5|I was worrying whether I should order or not thinking about the warranty issues faced by many buyers. But I did it and it was as absolutely fine. I got proper warranty for the prod.
3|The Dash Board takes too long to load. Operating Instructions are not clear. I had a much much better experience with an HP SImpleSave that I had though with a much smaller storage.
5|i am always a fan of seagate that why i again brought this product, pros: Stylish Look Good Writing and Copying speed Light weight but not like WD harddisk
4|Performing Good till today from the date of my Purchase.. But Max transfer speed is limited only to 15 to 17MB/s.. where it was aid to me 200 times more during the time of purchase.
4|The product arrived on time.great in size, will definitely fits in your pocket, good transfer rate, you will love it for sure that's pretty decent space, enough for most users.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) ... Please improve''''! Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) ... Please improve''''!
1|The hard drive failed after 3 months of use will have to contact seagate to get it replaced as it is in warranty period. Will update herer step by step how i claimed warranty.
5|Product as Described. Speed Rates: Writing Speed: 40-60 MB/sec [Both Games and Movies not much difference] Reading Speed: 10-25 MB/sec [On USB 3.0 Port]
4|Slim and fast external HDD. options for USB 2.0 and 3.0. Data transfer could have been little better in 2.0.... I would have love to give 5 stars. Does not require any power cable.
5|Its very small and slim like a smart phone, transfer rate also good more than 50mbps. Easy to carry anywhere. I can come in a pocket. No external power nedded. 3 Year waranty.
5|I love the product. Its very light and really portable. Excellent performance and quality. The service provided by Amazon was brilliant. I got delivered it in jst 4 days.
5|What an amazing product. Also was lucky to get it at a throwaway price during the lightning deal. The 200GB of cloudspace is a plus! Who doesn't need space :D (on a lighter note).
1|Live review - Screenshot attached. Using the product, just received. Product speed is utter slow. Just to copy 40 GB it is loading for 1 hour +, still happening. Not really happy.
5|thanks to amazon for timely delivery. good product fro 4k. slim and light weight. saves data very fast at the speed of 21 mb/s total memory 931GB WORTH BUYING
2|I jst started my 1tb hard drive n started transfering files and it jst gav me a speed of 20mbps. .... Is it okayy for the hardrive???? Pls help me.. I have a laptop with usb 2.0
5|Fantastic piece of hardware. Crafted beautifully and works wonder. The software inside is great, makes the transferring job a breeze. Don't give a second thought, just go for it.
5|been a seagate fan for long. more for after sales service. Even otherwise, this is extremely light and good quality. <<<...P...E...R...F...E...C...T...>>>
5|Amazing transfer speed when using this with a usb 3.0 SSD equipped pc/mac ! even with a regular usb2.0 HDD its pretty fast compared to older drives. decent software and features.
4|The hard drive was really. The packaging by amazon was great and the product was perfect when it arrived. I am using it for the past couple of months and its working is flawless.
5|Best ever hard drive. I brought it fev month ago... data transfer rate wass awsome...i recomned this to all....who want best data storage drive at amaging cost or quality........
5|Smaller/slimmer than expected. Works perfectly with Win 8.1. Speed around 90 MB/s while copying ISOs using usb 3. To register, get the serial number from external drive cfg file.
5|Bought it on 19 Oct ..Delivery was a day late ..... i got it yesterday.. working smoothly... backuped my data.... no problem.... and warranty is more than 3 years.... yeahh... :)
3|Late delivery, even aftre repeted follow up, i have collected from blue dart office. Wrost delivery. But product is too gud and i like it. best product from Segate. Nice product.
4|1. Speed is varying for different file formats (20 to 60 MB/sec while writing) 2. Size is very compact 3. Design is good 4. Normal heat Overall it is OK
3|Transfer Speed is about 25-30 Mbps only defect
5|I have received this product within 3days of ordered. This is very good product and have registered product and have 3 years of warranty period. I suggested to buy this product.
5|Product was amazing, Read and write speeds were good.Size & weight were handy and as small as possible.Overall a happy and satisfied purchase as usual with amazon and seagate :)
5|its really good!!! Metallic surface-finish is superb and the device is running perfect. Only issue with the seagate app it doesnt support android lolipop 5.0 and above
5|Very compact and light weight. The delivery was on time. Extremely delighted to have bought the product. Will recommend it to people who want a reliable lightweight portable HD.
4|I was looking for a 1tb replacement for my old external powered hard disk and came across this one. The hardisk is light weight, slim and as expected, beautiful. Just go for it.
4|My first ext hd. Had it delivered in 4 days. HD is smaller than a normal 5 inch phone and is one of the most compact ones you will get to see. Transfer speeds us also good.
5|Very bad service by amazon because incomplete address mention on courier package. But product is awesome. So I giving 5 star based ont his product. 1 star for amazon service. ..
5|New generation hard disk..This HDD is so slim compared to any other external HDD... The data transfer speed is also good...looks very much beautiful and very much compact..
4|Thank you amazon for superfast delivery. . The product really nice. I am getting 92 mbps write speed ( most often but varies ). Solid build and looks so cool. Loving it :)
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB best for daily use, product is as described by Amazon. High Speed Data Transfer with USB 3.0. Very small, slim and attractive in design.
4|Genuine product... satisfied... Product packing by amazon was not so good as expected... Seagate is the best external harddisk... Transfer rate 16mb/sec....
5|Ordered on 11th October. Got it Delivered on 14th October, 2014. Amazing Product. No issues with speed/ heating up or any other thing. Would reccomend this!
3|Some times does not support by pc and shows format disk. But no need to format because it is not a problem of hard disk, its software problem. After all it is good one to use,
5|It's very good for storing all the data...no heating issue and really very slim and light in weight...am now using it from long....recommend it to everyone...just go for it...
5|Pros-The speed of this hdd is pretty good, and it ensures good backup. Cons- it heats up Pretty fast, as fast as 30 minutes, which can be a factor to worry about.
5|I bought this is last December 2014. Got this in just 4369/- Rs. I will recommend all to buy seagate backup plus slim to all who thinks to buy HDD. Awesome, superb, fantastic.
5|Best product having too much features and advantages . Too Slim Easy mobile backup (With app) Lightweight Not too much heating Easy to carry in Pocket
5|Superfast delivery by amazon and Seagate as always best in hard drives. Good speed, nice pc backup software to update regularly from hd to pc or cloud. Go for it....
5|Liked it very much. Really compact & small.The surface is really smooth & at the same time it is dust free. I recommend it for those who want to keep their data safe & secure.
5|Very good looking and functional. Liked it much. Recommend to anyone that's looking for storage in style and ease. Will have to see how it performs in the move.
4|The packaging was good inside the Seagate box and outside it too. amazon as usual is great with delivery. This is a great buy, if you are looking in portable 1TB section
5|Compact. Ideal. Speed. If these words are not what you are looking for in a hard drive this is not the product you want to buy. Fast delivery and Authentic Product.
5|totally satisfied with this 1TB seagate HD 100% original and sealed with official warranty.. and from now m not worry about my data as its secure with seagate hard drive
3|it is a good piece of hardware at it's price but as said in other reviews it does not perform up to the expectation. slows down the whole performance of the PC or laptop
5|I LOVE SERVICE OF AMAZON I LOVE YOUR PACKING AND PROTECTION OF PRODUCT I LOVE SERVICE OF AMAZON I LOVE YOUR PACKING AND PROTECTION OF PRODUCT
5|Ver very light weight and easy to use. No external power supply required. Fits in pocket and serves like a 2000GB pendrive. Working well till now.
1|the hard drive crashed and is utterly useless now..It is not even an year old! My transcend HD is still working fine after 6 years...should not have fallen for pretty face..
5|Awesome product!! It's really handy because of slim design compared to bulky products of Sony. It's like holding a smartphone in my hand. Worth of price. A must buy device,
5|The product was in brand new condition. I have been using it for almost a week now. Perfect performance so far. I would recommend a more safe and shockproof packaging though
5|It is my first external hard drive and i am very satisfied. It is good in quality at the same time it even looks good. Its size make it easy to hold and handle. Recommended.
4|Nice, sleek design like smartphone. Data cable long enough. Average speed with USB 2.0 is 50MB/sec. Received product in time but not satisfied with packaging of Amazon!
5|Just right price for a superb product. Seagate is world no. 1 in hard disks so no comments on quality, looks are cool, build quality is great, I am happy to but this product
4|1. Seagate is a good brand and the price they offered was OK for me. 2.Read speed is superb Writing speed is good too. 3.I will recommend to buy anyone, of course.
3|Regarding Product, yea its good apart from copying speed as compare to WD. But I am still awaiting on my cashback (bought on 16 Oct) which I was suppose to get in Jan.
4|As compared with other hardisk in this range, i find it most compact with other hard drives. Seagate gave a very affordable product with very great function and easy to use
5|Really happy with this purchase, this hdd is seriously thin & stylish in its own right, not to mention speedy if you hook it up to a usb 3 port. Delivery was quick as ever.
1|transfer rate is very slow. I transferred 250 GB from my PC to this harddisk. Transfer rate was from 5MBPS to 8MBPS MAX. However, I am using USB 2. Then also its very slow.
5|Waited almost one month to write this review. No complaint so far. Works very nice with USB 3. On prolonged use slight heating observed. Otherwise a very slim handy device.
4|Very handy, fast, worth the price (Rs. 3800). Go for it! Great service by amazon too. By the looks of it, it seems fragile, so rough handling might be a problem.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB portable external hard disk drive is very handy and works at rocket speed. Value for money product. I recommend it everyone must have it.
4|Nice Product..Fast Delivery..Good Packing..Superb Cost..Good Performance.. USB Cable should have been a bit longer. Overall Satisfied. A Must Buy One.
4|I like Seagate Backup Plus Slim External Hard Drive because - First of all it is slim ! Good transfer speed. Comes with Seagate's dashboard
5|The product was delivered within 24 hours of booking. The product is also amazing. The files are uploaded in amazing speed. The product is also very sleek and light weight.
4|The storage drive is very much compact and easy to handle. The USB3.0 type is making the data transfer rate fast. I am satisfied with the current performance of the drive.
5|its good prouduct,speed of copying is 30mbps to 40mpbs, as they mentioned 200gb cloud storage its not at all coming the product registartione also not completing
5|I had purchased this product after a long wait price fluctuations & switching around various websites (ecom) amazon pricing is xcellent & product is genuine. Happy with it
4|Its good product.. start using it immediately after receiving it.. quiet a good speed for data transfer.. impressed.. Good sleek and slim design and really light weight,..
5|Amazing product from seagate.Very good design and performance and comes with 3 year warranty which I guess is enough.Good transfer speed as well.I am loving it.Go for it. 
4|Fell for its Great looks. Yet to analyze the performance. Going by my past experiences with Seagate, am sure that it performs well too. If not, I'll post it here for sure.
5|An excellent product! Easily reaches speed of more than 50mbps. Glad of amazon that no fake products are being sold like some other sites. Original and worthy of purchase!
5|Amazingly quick delivery by Amazon. Pro: Small size (may be the smallest for 1TB of storage) Good transfer speed Cons: Short USB cable
5|I shopped Segate backup plus slim 1TB device in amazon on COD. The device performance is too good and i received it in good condition the service of amazon also very good.
5|awesome product....excellent buying experience ......at best price slim ,pocket fit ...aluminum body at best price Fast copy speed usb 3.0
4|Fine.woking very good and amazon packing is very nice.thank u amazon. I have received 2 items from amazon both items are working are very good functioning- VIJAY, KKADAPA.
4|The product is working completely fine. Have got the 1TB external HDD at a very reasonable rate compared to the prices on the other shopping portals.
5|Not working with mac until you format this disk as exFAT or FAT with windows computer so be sure before using this on MAC All other thing is fine working great
4|First of all i have to appreciate the delivery of Amazon Coming to the product Seagate is the best option for Hard disk Usb 3.0 Makes the performance speed
4|Good packaging, timely delivery and device works as I had expected to. It's slim, doesn't heat up much if kept connected for long and data transfer rates are satiafactory
5|I was a bad review about Seagate after I purchased the product, when i was goggling. But none of the problems was shown by the product. i am happy with the product.
5|I didn't find any problems till now. Transfer Rate is quite good. No heating problem on long use. Easy to carry with you in your pocket. Worth to buy in 4.2k from Amazon.
5|best thing about this hard disk is that it fits into your pocket. professional design, good transfer speed. works with both USB 2.0 and 3.0. ordering another 1 TB :)
4|well built and extremely handy drive. Have not used exhaustively, so not sure of the port (usually it becomes loose on hard drives and is the main cause for malfunction).
3|My order for seagate backup plus slim 1TB was well packed and reached me on the 5th day after order was placed. As of date It is working well with my 13" rMBP laptop.
5|This hard disk is light in weight and can be easily carried in pockets.It is working good and its writing speed is very good.29-30 mbps in usb 2.0.Really awesome product
5|Awesome hard disk with ample space. Very fast transfers to and from other devices. No data corruption or data vanishing problems faced till now. Easy to carry.
5|The product is indeed very very good and must have one. Please do not have second thought and just go and get it.... It's indeed a very good product from Seagate...
5|Thanks to Amazon for delivering the product on time. The HD is so compact and looks like a mobile. Easy to carry. The speed is good even with 2.0 port. Must buy product.
5|Package received in good time, well packed. The final product working well. I am a first time user of external hard disc, so feel that the copy speed is also quite good.
5|Worth more than the cost. Sleek Small and Slim. Please get a Hard disk cover along with this hard disk like saco Little bit slippery Awesome product
4|It's been 1 week only since the purchase...used the hard disk to clear some space from previous Seagate 500Gb and internal drives, as a back up really....so far so good
5|Nice product but some defects are there in the HDD. And very nice and caring person was arrived for return pick up of my order Dilip Dubey. Good service by Dilip Dubey
5|Seagate are known for **HDD** Itz just amazing hdd i ever had, I do recommend this product to buy. (This HDD has 931GB free space it doesnt comes with full 1000GB)
5|its really super product... working good.,,, and fast data transfer.. am satisfied fully with this product... only i want to know about warranty..?? is it 3 years?
5|Much better than WD. I bought WD one year ago and changing it to Seagate. The WD hard drive always had reading error. Great choice. Much lighter and more nicer looking.
3|as the name suggests it's dimensions make it really handy and portable. the transfer speed is not as good as expected. still its a very good purchase at this price
4|I chose this product because, 1. The Data transfer rate is higher than others, 2. Write speed is fairer, and 3. Has more usage life than any other.
4|The external hard disk is good to carry. so far i have not tested its backup abilities. I got it for 4200 Rs. with no shipping charges. It has around 930GB memory.
1|it is not working after 6 month of purchase
5|awesome product, great packing by flipcart.
5|Very slim and compact. It is 1.4 times faster than a same range WD MyPassport Ext HDD. The area of this device is little larger than WD MyPassport but thinner that it.
5|Simple to start with and is very handy.Amazon delivery is too good n packing was excellent as always. Recommend to buy if want a very good external hdd at decent price
5|Very compact form factor,good transfer speeds and the reliability of seagate.I have been using seagate hard disks for 12-15 years and not one of them have ever failed.
2|Hard dist not properly connected with Sansui LED (Television). All the stuff inside harddsik is not accessible in LED including songs,video and images.Please guide me.
5|Awesome fast delivery. Product was well packed. Working more than fine. Software is handy. Was confused between this and wd ultra. Glad I bought this. Overall 5 stars.
5|I got this product delivered within 2 days .... satisfied with this product .. Data speed transfer rate found in between 24 to 28 kbps. Till now not faced any issue :)
4|Though it reached safely, I feel like it'd taken too long to reach me. I mean the time duration taken to deliver the product is too long. Kindly look into this please.
5|It fits in your packet nicely and very slim, smooth and small, I doesn't get any cable for connecting the phone, We need to buy it separately! But overall good product
1|I ve ordered few things before...never had prob. But this time the courier guy came at office hours...dint even made a call..before or after reaching home..!! And tht happened twice with both the orders i placed...i even asked CS guy tht i ll come to their place for pick up...but tht dint help either....overall very bad experience....as i ws getting it at Rs.3900 at tht time and now price are up..:(
5|Excellent one with very good data transfer speed. Initially confused between WD and Seagate. Now I think my decision was not bad either. Recommended product
5|It's very small and sleek, looks amazing and comes with Seagate Brand assurance, very nice product. It's backup software is very good and synchronize data seamlessly.
4|Good hard disk, decent speeds for a usb powered hdd, and very portable and compact. Would have given it 5 stars but HDD's can never be trusted and so the 1 star less.
1|This is the worst product I have ever purchase in Amazon. My newly purchase hard drive is not working. With in 2 months its got its gone. All my important data lost.
4|Sooo Bloody Slim... Its even thinner then my old 500GB seagate. Great purchase... lovely service from Amazon. Product reached in 2 days. No Complaints yet.
4|The item is working fine and the item is superb and the Look is very slim and rate is slashed by amazon by huge amount. Thank you amazon for giving me this offer
4|Positives form factor performance negatives Looks and feels delicate- rather afraid it might crash. Not sure on how long it will work.
3|Very Good product.. No issues. Problem with only bad packing.. Not packed with in the box. Protective cover is useless. Packed with used covers. Very bad.
4|Best hard disk with a good transfer speed. Look wise awesome and so slim physical structure and weight is low so that easily can carry in your jeans/ pant pocket.
5|Awesome Product. The speed of transfer is really good getting above 60-70 MB. Got this product with in two days. Thanks Amazon for shipping the product well in time.
4|Good product. Nice aesthetics. Easy warranty registration. Speed not very flattering (20-30 mbps) for files bigger than 3 GB. For smaller files its good (50-60 mbps)
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim. Its a great product, worth for money. I got a best deal for Rs 4074. Only the Outer package is not good... Thanks to AMAZON
4|It's a very light weight product.....nice speed of data transfer. Looks verry nice...value 4 money Go for it...and nice packaging by Amazon
5|Delivered as promised and worth the money.
5|Got it for 4k and it worth that money. It is super silent, u can hardly notice fan inside rotating. It is super compact which is compact than my oneplus one mobile.
1|used in Mac first to transfer some data and then found out that my PC can't detect it anymore. This was the precise reason why I needed a new HD in the first place.
5|Must say ....good in size and weight.... and most important very sleek and slim...storage is 1TB which stores all my important files and other important accessories
5|Fantastic design, never thought it would be so slim and compact. Bought it after comparing with multiple other HDD. It's been just a week and I'm satisfied with it.
5|So far so good. Its been a month after the purchase!! I simply love the design and the ease of use. Recommend this over WD my passport, Happy backing up!!
2|The HDD which I bough keeps getting Disconnected, I am starting to doubt if this was an authentic product? Not sure if I can return this and get a replacement?
4|Good product. I have seagate 500 GB hard drive old model...But this seems to be quite smarter and more slim than the previous one...Transfer rate is also very good.
4|Very good product....! the only thing I don't like about that is it's usb cable size. It should be a bit longer. hence I don't give it 5 stars. Otherwise its great.
5|Loved your service.. One time. .. Regarding the HDD.. speed was not what i expected by still its good. Overall i loved the performance. Thanks
5|The hard drive is extremely sleek. The transfer speed is quite good and for Rs.3700 this product is real worth for money. The packaging could have been better.
5|its color and low weight and look wise and data transfer speed is so nice....its look is great compare to other similar hard disk .. it is compact size .. i like it
5|very good product i loved it very much been using it for the past 4 months and it didn't have any issues.and also a lot thanks to the amazon for packing it neatly.
5|Good and original product. No issue of warranty. I had got a 3year and 3month warranty. Thank you amazon. Always purchase from a best seller, thank you Cloudtail.
5|Awesome product. First experience with an external HDD, and i thnk im going to love it. Handles smoothly. Its slim design and lil heavy weight impress me vry much.
5|Seagate is 2TB looks and performance is Awesome!! .. Express delivery by Amazon!! Great work by logistic Team Kudos.. I am pretty really happy customer.
5|super fast delivery..product was brand new and neatly packed.. registered online too.. has warranty upto 2018 end.. very compact and sleek..wonderful Amazon..!! :)
5|Amazing product delivery was bang on time it is working great ..... i was able to register it successfully on seagate site..... i recommend it worth buying...
4|Got this product with low price in Amozon and it has very good backup options including automatic backup. The shipment is very fast compare to other online stores.
4|awesome build quality. usb 3.0 really working good.the speed is at least 3mbps/sec really cool compared to other HD at this price .coooooooooooooooooooooolllllllll
5|When I have compared with other online shopping site on purchase, this was the lowest price. I have recommended this to my other friends. This performance is best.
5|The product was delivered to me very next day of ordering and was received as expected. Hard drive is really slim and easy to use. Meet my needs and expectations.
5|Just incredible.have been using this product for more than a year now.completely satisfied with the product.50-60 mdps transfer speed... Best hard disc ever.
5|Its Really a good product, light and simple, but very quick service by amazon, got the product within 18 hours(that also in free delivery) , good job, keep on !!
4|Hi, Amazon did the delivery on time and packaging was in good condition. I am happy with the product which i have got and it is solving the purpose. :)
5|fast, compact,handy,flying speed of data transfer gettingt this product under 3700 was a great deal awsm product...go and buy it (Y) (Y) (Y)
5|AMAZON PROVIDING AMAZING SERVICE FASTEST TRANSPORTATION..... GOOD JOB AMAZON SEAGATE 1 TB HARD DRIVE IS ALSO EXCELLENT GOOD PRODUCT FOR BACKUP
4|Compact and portable hdd..and compatible with Mac..which is what I was looking for. I just had to install the driver on the hdd and I could use it on MacBook Air.
4|great hard drive got in an excellent condition transfers at a speed 20 - 25 mbps but with avery short length of cable . otherwise a good product (paisa vasool)
4|Its a very external handy external hard drive. Working fine without any hitch. Would like to see the performance in the long run. Recommend to others for buying.
4|Very slim, and beauty. And also very fast. size is half of the smart phone size. fits well in the shirt pocket.
1|Opening Scratch mark on cover was there .
5|I have been using this product for almost 6 months, so far no problems encountered. Good build quality. Good data transfer rate as well: upto 100 MBPS on USB 3.0
5|It provides nearly 900 mb storage and is grt for backup. You can even use it as a normal storage device like to store movies, photoes, songs etc. It is worth it.
5|Well designed and slim as advertised. Very portable and transfer is quite fast. Enjoying the freedom of not having to worry about free space on my 128 GB SSD. :)
5|It's pretty amazing. It's light and seems to be able to survive my rough handling. It's been perfect for backing up my data and carrying around on a daily basis.
4|The device works great. the overall look and feel met my expectations. however the data cable is slightly of lower quality when compared to their earlier models.
5|it's completely value for money, I liked it because it is pocket size, and not too heavy, And data transfer speed is also good. Worth buying through amazon.
5|I purchased 1 tb backup plus hdd in cheaper rate as compared to other site, i am very happy with its service. you can purchase product easily with full of trust.
3|Don't know about WD My Passport utltra, but this device is giving only 20-30 mbps speed on usb 2.0 and 40-55 mbps speed on usb 3.0(while transferring movies). I have win8, core i3 3rd gen processor and 6gb ram. Can any one also share the actual speed which they are getting? Its Lightweight and easy to use. Seagate should do something about IOS mobile app, the app doesn't run in background or when mobile locks, so always app should be active on the screen while taking backup threw wifi from ipad or iphone.
5|I got a great Diwali Gift by purchasing this It is stunning in looks and also met My Expextations. However, only problem is that it get hit soon.
5|Quick delivery for the product. The warranty does work. Got the 200GB space on One Drive as specified. Getting a transfer speed of 60-90Mbps. Excellent product.
3|It's good for working but is really hard to registere for warranty purpose..still am not done registration for warranty..... If its fails.....then its not Worth
5|Great product from seagate..Using it for a month filled it with al my data and movies and thinking of buying another if u hav lot of datas to store go for 2tb..
5|Nice Product from Seagate as always. This one is more sleeker and good looking. As USB 3.0 Supported read write speed are much faster as expected. Great buy. :)
5|This was the very first time I ever shopped from amazon.in and I am really happy with it :) I have been shopping online for last 4 years and never have anyone delivered the product in less than 36 hours (By normal free delivery) so I am really happy with Amazons delivery System and Packaging too was decent. Well about the Hard disk, its PERFECT Good Finish, Good Transfer Speed , Very Slim and Portable. Available space 931MB, Registering the product online on Seagate website was quick and easy ...
5|Performance - Fast and easy to use. No ossues with respect to functionality; been using this product for over a year now. Design - sleek and light weight.
1|this product does not work with my macbook pro. i was able to do backup from my windows laptop but on my macpro i can only read the data i cannot copy into it.
5|If you are looking to get a External HD. This is the perfect choice for you. As per the experience of all the friends with Seagate this is the best.
5|Cloudtail have never disappointed me in terms of delivery or quality of product. Really good product. Easy registration from the Seagate software in the drive.
5|Slim n light weighted...do not heat up(even after using fo hours) transfer speed usb 2.0 :35mbps n usb 3.0:110mbps...comes wid 3 year warranty (checked online)
4|I ordered it tomorrow evening , and surprisingly i recevied it today before 2 PM. it looked nice and i am happy to get it. Its so light and slim easy to carry.
5|Seagate. Slim. Sturdy. Solid. Shatterproof. Superb. Sexy. Simple. Smart. Speedy. Spendworthy. Sevenstar.
5|I picked this one up for my Mac Book Pro. I transferred around 300Gb in under 3 minutes! Beat that! Love the colour too. And it's so damn slim and portable :-)
5|It is smaller than my mobile. Very nice. Transfer speed is around 30Mbps. Only issue is regarding warranty. Check warranty of your product once you receive it.
5|Lowest price on amazon jus 4000. Packing is to good.. I like packing of amazon. Harddrive is do it best no issue. Using from last 3 months go for it.
5|It small like a smart phone, can easily carry and the colour is fabulous. Performance is good and less noisy/silent one comparing to other regular size drives.
4|Usb 3.0 supported and maximum speed is 100mbps. In description they said, it supports thunderbolt. I expected thunderbolt port with it. Because I'm a mac user.
4|Product was very slim and smaller than smart phone. satisfied for this product but speed not as mentioned. while copying files speed between 30 to 40 mbps only
5|Go for it. Its my 3rd External hardrive.
5|best product. i have used 800gb so far . no issues. always use it with the case. that way the data is well protected. buy a case and put the hard disk inside.
5|Great working and very very portable if you dont fall it in flat surface then it never stop working...love it thanks amazon for such a nice delivery and price
5|This is a very useful product to store the data. It was easy to install and to put into use. It's light weight and slimness enables easy stowing and carrying.
5|Great product. Have been using seagate hard disk for 4 years now, this being my second seagate hard disk.jo hassles and good data copying speed. Recommend it.
5|Its Very Good .Very Good Product and Nice Packing with Fast Delivery. Usually FAST and GOOD won't be CHEEP. but its possible at Amazon. Very good Shopping Exp
5|Excellent drive at this price and size. Easy registration for warranty and took about an hour for copying 200GB data and quite fast and did not get heated up.
3|Good and fast delivery. But, it is becoming very slow after saving about 100 gb. It still has 800+ gb free and is taking lot of time to save small files also.
2|The product was slim and easily portable but was not readable in my Laptop on the day I received the product. Extra star for the seller who refunded my money.
5|I love the compact size and convenience / ease of backup of my data using seagate dashboard software that can be easily downloaded onto your PC from the site.
4|1. HDD is too slim making it feasible to carry it in our pockets during the traveling. 2. Data Transfer Speed is good compared with other External HDD'S.
5|I would like to reccomend this to everyone. coz this brand at this cost is really an amazing this that can happen on online shopping. Thanks to amazon.in
5|I bought this for less than 7 grands and it is a great deal. Since this is original Seagate, quality and performance is great. Does what it is support to do.
4|Amazingly small. Way smaller than expected and lighter too. Looks no nonsense with s small smart led and a sturdy USB 3.0 port. I'm sure I'm gonna have fun.
1|Order for a Horse and received a donkey! And was not a authentic device.. had to return th e product. I would call myself lucky enought have received refund.
4|Its a very good experience online to buy this product. Initially I was skeptical about the product but it's very good and no untoward experience. I like it.
4|I m really impressed with your service and product. I also recommend ur services to my known. But i m waiting for my Cashback and about two months goes down.
5|Compact size, ultra slim n less weight..Transfer rate upto 60mbps with usb 3.0 which i tested....Im satisfied with this product with amazon good delivery....
5|Very good product.very fast delivery also.the product also slim &excellent .Seagate back up plus is very good &working properly.u can buy this without doubt.
4|Product is working fine from 8months but made is delicate and need to be more cautious while handling. Wd of same configuration is having good build quality.
5|Best hard disk at this price, it is really very small and slim, we will be getting 1.81 GB. Build quality is also very good. Very satisfied with my purchase.
5|Serving it's purpose. I don't much care about transfer speed as i don't have 3.0 Design is lovely but the usb wire could have been a little longer.
4|Nothing more to say.. good performance, good build, good looks, smaller size and ooooosam.... Can fit in your shirt pocket, fast and faster in usb 3.0 ports.
4|Available Space,Transfer rate,compatibility USB2.0/OS's,Cloud , fits pocket, and inbuilt interface is a complete package available at such an exciting price.
4|i preferred this over WD passport ultra 1TB because it is much faster as i have researched yet. plus it is a bit smaller than WD passport ultra 1TB
5|its perfect as it was displayed in the website good work amazon team keep it up hope the same responce next time
4|Nice product. Only the thing I am not giving it 5 star is it gets heated very early. But you can copy your required data when you needed. So not a big deal.
5|AWESOME PRODUCT BUT DOESN'T COMES WITH PASSWORD PROTECTION MANAGER SO ONE MUST KEEP THAT IN MIND WHILE BUYING IT.BUT ULTIMATELY WORKS VERY VERY GOOD!!!!!!!!
5|Sent me the latest model of Seagate Hard Disc of the Make Sep'14 and the model is too good...but it is yet to be used......working is to be checked....
5|Superbb cool slim Hard disk i have never seen before ? Capacity 931 gb & 3 year warranty Packing is good I purchase this product @ rs -3899/-
5|Yah.. its fantastic. Really its very nice lite weight, easy to carry, no external power require, overall its so nice and the service of amazon is very good.
4|Extremely satisfied with the product, very lite, slim and handy. The performance great till now ( 1 Month) . The Amazon India service needs to be improved.
4|It is good, slim and quite small to carry anywhere. I like the product and it it inbulit with dashbaord which makes easy to use it Mohd Saad Khan
3|product is good, quality is good, Look and size is superb easily kept in ur pocket.. but data transfer rate in not so good, very slow data transferring..!!
5|You look at it the first time and you will fall in love. It's as slim as a supermodel and the 3.0 connectivity helps data transfer at lighting speeds.
5|It is an amazing product. Works very fine with both my windows laptop and mac. The design is really very slim and is very potable. Speed is also fast.
5|No complains so far, sleek, slim. But cable is too short and hard, doubtful, how long the cable is gonna last. They should have make the cable durable too.
5|Excellent Product, will recommend users this product. Its been 2+ months and I am using it daily, in fact I gifted the same product to my brother as well..
4|it's really portable and looks awesome... transfer speed is really super.... also the amazon packing and delivery service is good !!!!!!!!!!!!!!
4|Delivery by Amazone very prompt. The seagate 2TB hard drive is functioning well So far. (using it since about one month) Data transfer speed is satisfying.
5|Ordered and got delivery within a week. The device is superb and very good for travel while carrying all the data including backup. A good Value for money.
5|good quality .Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black)
4|could be a better deal if provided a safety pouch with it too.. just saying otherwise its sleek, ok ok performance wise also.. best buy in this budget
4|I had ordered for 2 hard disk i have received it on time and the hard disk is worth the money. And its quiet cheap here compared to other retails stores...
5|CHEAP AND BEST EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE...... GOT WITHIN 2 DAYS.... THANKS TO AMAZON INDIA WONDERFUL SERVICE BUY WITHOUT HESITATING ..
5|Excellent product and timely delivery!!
5|Good product, value for money, works perfectly. Data transfer speed is good when compared to other brands. Texture & feel is good, red is a awesome color.
5|Super slim hard disk I have ever used ,copies files very fast,and looks even smaller than the image above ,over all a super product for a reasonable value
4|The product is of 1TB but i had only 920GB which is far from the acceptable range. Apart from that the performance is excellent as seagate is always good.
5|Received the product within 3 days of ordering it. The packaging was good. The product is covered under 3 years limited warranty from seagate. Thanks
5|This is a very good hard drive. The price and warranty that was associated with it was also unparallel at that time when I bought it. Thank you.
4|awesome product. great looks not sure how the warranty works never faced an issue with the product in the last 3 months of extensive usage.
5|Right from online booking to delivery of this product my experience is satisfactory.Also its work fast to transfer data & input data from source.Thanks..
5|A great Product. I had 3 Seagate Backup Plus Slim HDs. Nice look..very Slim... very good built in quality... good transfer rate too.... GO FOR IT......!!!
4|For me expansion was upto the mark. Although it was my first purchase (electronic) with Amazon but after my experience I will highly recommend. Cheers (y)
5|Its Awesome! very sleek and brilliant finish. Loved it! cannot get such an awesome deal anywhere else.I would suggest to go for it without any doubt.
4|It's simply good and no more words to say about this product. But about the cost is too expensive when compared to others and rest of the thing is ok....
5|very very slim and small for a 2 TB HDD. That way it becomes very portable. Do purchase a good cover for it.USB wire could have been little more lengthy.
5|It is a nice product and I appreciate the timely delivery by Amazon. I am very happy with the product as well as the service provided by Amazon. Thanks.
5|Its a great product . Slim and light weight still sturdy . Nice surface finish . I strongly recommend this product. On time delivery by Amazon as usual .
5|Though the product was not delivered at home by India post, intervention by Amazon helped. The HDD is slim n good. Data transfer speed is good too.
4|The HDD is great in looks and performance. Very slim too. And the service was great too. I received the product the next day. Thumbs up for this HDD...?
4|very slim and nice its my first HDsk, have compared price with other E-Commerce sites before purchasing have got it for a great deal from Amazon...Thanks
4|The best in class product if u take the price to performance ratio.... Transfer speed are not that gr8 on USB 2.0....but on USB 3.0 its blazingly fast...
4|Slim and compact, can carry in pocket, transfer rate is 30 mbps in USB 2.0, didnt check for usb 3.0, hard disk to hard disk transfer rate is 15 - 17 mbps
5|Ultra light, ultra portable. Sometimes it does seem to get a little to warm but it could be due to large file transfers. Apart from it, great buy. Cheers
5|Very nice hdd simply best impressed by writing speed slim portable looks good seagate provides best hard drive amazon price very good compare to flipkart
1|The hard drive which I got was not physically damaged and in mint condition. But no computer could detect it. Tried with different cable but no use.
5|Buy it without hesitation it is really slim Now i use 360gb of same brand it is bigger than 1TB problem is slippery handle with care. Perfomance is good
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) is very compact & user friendly but data tr speed does not seem to be as claimed.
5|It's plug and play no need driver installation. Works amazing .it's the best for storage data. Works fast in usb 2.0 In 3.0 superb speed.
5|Hail Amazon! .. Hail Seagate ! .. its a tremendous experience for me to buying thru amazon and this item has been the best in all my stock! .. Thanks,..
5|This hard disk is really amazing.Copy-paste speed is also good.I am happy with the amazon service also.I will always prefer amazon for further shopping.
4|Already have been using this product since 2/3 yrs.... This one is New and improved....much more compact and same great performance as before......
1|I was disappointed. The speed of the product was fluctuating and after some time its speed would reduce to few kB/sec . I returned my product!
5|This product is upto my expectations... Gud quality... Gud looks... Exactly like in the picture... Works great for me... Thumbs up for it... Must buy...
4|Amazon service is excellent the product was shipped within 20 hours, but segate backup is heating if it is conneced for more time 4 stars fithe product
5|Am satisfied with the product. Nice and sleek packaging and delivers what is is meant to. Will wait till the prices of 2TB comes down for the next buy !
5|Awesom compact sleek hdd..matte finishd color just loved it..good packaging..Odered it on fridy n recievd my hdd on sunday..Waoooo..Superb delvry time..
5|It came on time. proper packing smooth transition product is great.it has 3.0 usb support. very compact and slim. nobody can say its 1TB.
3|average speed but good quality product
5|Awesome product. Got it at good price.
5|Nice Product but price should be constant. After my purchase price reduction was done by AMAZON India. I was little unhappy for losing some money.
5|The product is 100% geniue speed is about 50mb per sec packing is very good and sevice is very good order comes in within two days i love this product.
4|I bought this product before 6 months and since I am using this its really nice and transferring speed upto 20 Mbps so Its better for backup the Data .
4|The deliver was as expected. However I ordered blue one I got a black one. For me though the same was not a big hue and cry. The product is good though
4|GOOD PRODUCT for decent price!!!!!!!! The hard Disk is quite Slim and is very lite.... Amazing service from amazon. Delivered within 24hrs...
4|along with quality the price seems to fit best in place for such hard drive. nic buy though it gives 931 GB space being 1 TB comfortable buy!
4|Awsome product......small size... Got 100+ mbps speed on usb 3.0 But the problem is with packing; packing is not good it doesn't contain any air bags
5|Cheaper and Very good quality. Installation may face some problem. Recommended for you to buy if you need external Hard Disk for personal data storage.
5|Excellent Product received in excellent packing and prompt well in-time delivery. No quality problem faced in one month of purchase. Its working good.
5|Using it for more than 2 months now. Amazing piece, good performance on my Windows 8.1 OS with approximately 150Mbps speeds.Highly recommend to anyone
5|Gr8 product its slim sleek and the warranty as intact as mentioned checked it online....the seller cloudtail respect bro u deserve bit of appreciation
5|Great looks..superb speed(read and write)...in short an awesome product and as always,amazon's amazing delivery. Great Job! Nothing less than 5 stars.
5|Delivery time was excellent. Product was class, ultra light and easily compatible with Mac. No issues. Package should have been a bit more attractive.
4|everything was as described and expected. Delivery was good however could have been in a better package even though it doesn't seems to hurt anything.
5|This is one of the best out there. Have used all kinds WD, Transcend, Sony, Hitachi, Samsung, but this one is the most compact of them all. Go for it.
5|In hard disk which has excellent quality and non to compete this product. reasonabily price for such excellent product. superb in quality and pricing.
5|good speed effective price slim meet all my requirement overall i much satisfied thanks to amazon for providing in that price
2|Product is so good, model is looking so fine, but the speed of data transfer is very slow like normal pendrive. no password option to lock hard disk.
4|Gr8 storage space works well wid both Apple Mac OS & Windows. Secure your data wid dis Hard disk. Nice, portable, good quality & convenient to carry.
4|Good External hard drive by Seagate, very compact and user friendly. It connects to oneplus one over otg. Thanks cloudtail for timely delivery.
5|fantastic product at awsome price...good and fast delivery by amazon...very slim hdd, as compare to my early seagate hdd. recomended to all user
4|I like this hard drive as it's slick and attractive. It's work fine. All my friends also liked it and they told me that he also would like to buy it.
5|Works great. Fast transfers. Slim package and the backup software that comes with it is easy to use. Backs up photos and videos from iphones as well.
5|First Of all Product is superb slim with amazing transfer rate in range of 30 to 60 MBPS.About Delivery i received my product within 14 hours only :)
5|Really great product. Slim & compact. Transfer rate i got about 57.3MB/sec max. I got an average speed of about 35MB/sec Worth buying.
5|Best one is I have got 3.0 USB which makes data transfer very quick, and what would i say more about seagate product, the name is enough and the best
4|The Seagate Backup Slim Portable External Hard Disc Drive, purchased online through Amazon, came in good packing. The performance is good.
4|speed is up to the mark.... design in perfect.... I love it... purchaced it on diwali sale in 3.9K also expecting 10% cashback..
5|Seagate using Samsung hard drive when I open the box......... Only seagate branding but inside the box I found Samsung hard drive.......... Cheap....
5|Cute, little, smart, slim and these are the words I can use for Seagate Backup Plus hard drive. Packaging was great and delievery by amazon is great
3|Good product, segate dashboard is a good tool, only issue is with restore option as it shows you will have to select all incremental ones to restore.
1|Cable is very loose kindly change it.
4|Very slim slipped twice from my hand.
5|Excellent product. Nice speed for copying! The look is also very good and much better compared to other HDs out there. Very happy with the purchase.
5|Great product. Bought this a year ago and it's working superbly till now. It is slim compact and weightless. Easy to carry even in pant pocket.
5|Best is it is working with My windows laptop as well macbook air. Very slim, small and really fast. As usual, experience with amazon was great.
5|PRODUCT WAS SO GOOD. BUT AMAZON NEED TO PACK THIS TYPE OF PRODUCT WITH EXTRA CARE. OVERALL GOOD. NO PROBLEM WITH PRODUCT, SERVICE, DELIVERY TIME. :)
5|Nice product...Satisfied. New buyer don't forget to register your HDD serial no. on seagate official website for comfortable warranty process.
4|this slim and sleek memory storage giant won my heart in first view, and amazon was just excellent in the field of service and in time delivery
5|It's sleek and compact for a 1 TB HDD , which I love! It does all that it claims. So, I call it a good buy! Kudos to Amazon for quick delivery!
5|I LIKE THE PRODUCT.....BUT PRODUCT WHICH IS I ORDER IS DIFFRENT AND I GET ANOTHER PRODUCT BUT IT IS UPGRADE PRODUCT SO WHY I AM SATISFIED...THANKS..
4|The product was so attractive slim. The package from amazon is ok. Not too good. But the product delivered before expected date. Happy:-)
5|The external HDD form factor and the finish has continued to improve, i've been purchasing backup harddrives from SeaGate for a more than a decade.
4|Its awesome product. speed in mac is very good & for windows user max speed for USB2.0 is 30mb & for USB 3 is 75 max speed. good product for buyer.
5|Very easy to use and light weight Portable. The finish is smooth and elegant with just a small light blinking on the top. Just an amazing portable.
5|HDD is slim having great looks.. Good Amazon Shipment timelines.. Good Buy.. better price.. over all good exp. I would recommend amazon..
4|4 start only because of its short USB wire, apart from that everything is aweeesssommeeee!!!! So, Just Don't wait for it......Go with this over WD.
4|The look of the hard disk is very cool. It works fast and easy to handle. I am satisfied with the product. The delivery of the product was on time.
5|An excellent Hard drive from seagate...Great copy speed...blindly go for it...and it looks awesome......I get it with in 1.5days from amazon.....!!
5|Just go for it...Wait for lightning deal on this product and buy it. It has been a great purchase and I have been using it for the past 2 months..
5|Works perfect and takes very less space. Only concern is the price of this product. Sleek design and awesome data transfer speed!!!!!!!
4|Awesome product. Rich look and speed is fast. Though it depends system to system and files types but over all is great product. Happy to have it
4|It did not work on my ubuntu, but works on mint. Speed is OK and not much of a problem to me. I do hear some sort of sounds while its in use.
5|Nice product. Compact like a mobile phone. Main thing is easy to copy from my Mac to windows PC, without any additional app's or conversion tools.
5|The hard disk is realy awesome and has a high end finish!! The amazon delivery is just awesome!! Recieved it much before the last date!!
4|its very good .... its very simple and plug and play .... thaks amason....but your courier "gati" courier service is very very bad ......
5|PORTABLE EASY TO CARRY EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE LOOK CUTE WHAT ELSE YOU WANT? IF YOU WANT GOOD HARD DISK WITH BEST PRICE BUY THIS
5|Looking nice, slim..... Working well........... I very happy to have this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB portable External Hard Drive.very helpfull
5|Very good product. Really slim and compact.. Just truly pocket-sized. Grab-n-Go. Auto backup feature.. Very less heating even on continuous usage.
4|cool yaar....with osam price...speed also good...and body also cool....bas cover ni mila yaar baki thik hai....i totally impressed this product...
4|This product I received today is working awesome, giving speed of 85-90mbps on my laptop which itself a usb3.0 Love the service of amazon :)
5|very good product. its very slim and relatively sturdy. stronger and faster than the WD product. Go ahead and place your order without any worry.
4|Product is fine. It ids working fine. I got it on cheaper ptice. Though after I bought in amszon price came down.delivery of amaxon also in time.
5|Nice...good working...till now no problem... so I am happy..worth it....Thank you amazon for a such nice offer...its very cool..nice packaging...
5|its faster, compact and beautiful. anyone looking for a 1 TB hard disk , plz buy this beauty without thinking. I would really not let you regret.
5|smart n slim frm seagate..easy to use... transfer speed 65 to 85 mbps.. light weight product..worth for money... fastest delivery.
5|Seagate Hard disk which i received is brand new and without any default. Hard disk is working perfectly. Cloudtail product meets my expectation.
5|Amazon service is great along with a great product by Seagate.. Faster data transfer..quite slim n small sized device..Highly recommended .
4|Awesome Product with great looks. Although data transfer on older 2.0 is very slow makes up for it on 3.0 enabled devices. Going great so far,,,
4|A very good product.. Color is awesome.. Loved it.. It tansfers data fast so speed is also good.. Overall nice and worth buying.. Happy happy :)
5|Its awesome. Slim, short, sexy. extra 200gb cloud storage. so far working good. Seagate or WD both are best. I am using WD as well Seagate now.
2|Got book insted, I am sure that it's a mistake because cloudtail never do this. I purchased it by viewing reviews about the product feeling bad
5|Very giod product in the price range Has brushed aluminium as cover which looks cool in sliver Very less noise and pretty solid built
5|Hi I bought this 2 months back its simply superb,less weight, well designed and the performance is awesome.Amazon service is extremely well..?
2|It didn't work for me. May be the product was faulty; I don;t know. But amazon replaced it for me and replacement worked; so its fine i guess
5|Best Seagate 1 TB portable drive, got at least price on amazon.in in market. I will recommend amazon.in for external hard drive purchases.
4|It is good and met the expectations absolutely. No damage and I checked teh warranty in original seagate site and everything is perfectly fine.
5|Awesome product. Superior finishing of body. Came in nice packaging without any issue. Faster and easy to install on pc.
4|Recently bought this hard disk from Amazon and Product from Sea gate is excellent..thanks to Amazon for getting the best product in best price.
4|thanks i got my ordered product after placed withing 2 day. i buy / order lot of products and suggest to other friends. thanks Amazon
4|Excellent product with sleak design Easy to carry like mobile in pocket Amazon dispatched it within 48 hrs to my Navi Mumbai location
5|I have already two "Seagates" . The 1TB sent by you is VERY GOOD and I am happy to have bought it through you. Thanks - M.R.V. Subbiah
4|Its sleek and very beautiful to see. But they dont actually give complete 1 tb space (1024gb) . They only give 932gb. thats the only draw back
4|An amazing hard disk for its price.... Speed is good and very portsble..lighweight.Gives me upto 30 - 60 mbps speed for sharing and writing...
5|The look is amazing and the delivery was on time... I didn't find any difficulty with it as if now so would definitely recommend it for all...
4|Total- 4.5/5 Features:- 4.5 Data Transfer:-4.5 (USB 2.0- 25MBPS-26MBPS) (USB 3.0--Not Checked Yet) Look:- 5 (Pretty Good)
5|Good Product from Seagate, Good timed delivery from Amazon and Excellent offer from Amazon (No other sites are providing this kind of offers.)
5|Its really slim, stylish & worth for money. Its easy in operation & performing good. Conc: Amazon needs to improve their packaging.
5|Quality ,Packing, all are good as of now. Just amazed about Backup process.too good in data transfer,Ease of Use.Very Slim. Easy to Carry
5|Just Go And Grab It. Amazing Pricing (3,799), Itis product is actual 2.5 Inch's. You Have To Use It Care Fully Build Quality Is Not Good.
5|Both price and size its more suitable with my pocket. less size low wait high performance low price Thank you Amazon.
5|This drive is great. Good transferring speed. Slim and compact design gives it cool look. I would recommend you to buy this product.
5|Good & Excellent product very slim and speed is also very good....usually Hard disk heats while connected but this product does not heat much.
4|got on time. working good. portable. stylish with in budget. over all experience is awesome and i liked it. thank you
5|Received in 3days of placing order. Kudos to amazon. And about segate, there's nothing to tell. It's amazing. Got it for 4k. Worth the money.
5|Good product and working well. This is excellent for backing up the complete PC and can be updated from time to time. Despatch was very fast.
4|Good drive, works fine. Although there is no difference between any of these drives at this range.. Better to go for whatever is cheaper
5|It's good. Fast and beautiful. Compact, sleek and quite easy to handle. Thank you Amazon :) For delivering this so fast.
5|Excellent product. So compact and easy to use. I am loving it. The seller had lived upto expectations. Amazon delivered it on dot.
5|Amazing an lightning fast copy and write speeds..build quality is up to the mark..nice..and compact..3 years warranty..!! what else you want.
5|Delivered within 2 days - thanks Amazon for the quick delivery. Product is exceptionally elegant and sleek. Great product at a great price :)
5|seagate HDD is really good product... nice color .. portable ..high speed data~50 MB/s transfer.. USB 3.0 is very fast all over its Mahoool..
5|The hard disk and the service is really good. Getting a seagate hard disk at the price of 3800/- is too reasonable . Thanks to Amazon.in
5|Slim, light weight , portalable, fast and as it describe in image and specification. Very reliable hard drive and color does not matter.
4|i m using this harddisk from last 1 month and i thinks that its very stylish ,cheap,and thin go for it good product by seagate
5|I have satisfied with segate 1 Tb back up plus harddrive ......... Very good deal with amazon........... Good experience ..........
5|Good Service....... & product also good quality... I will catch u next time for my new purchase order.... Thank you....
5|nice slim hard disk. i havent used usb 3.0 yet but the speed with usb 2.0 is nice and is around 20mb/sec. easy with pocket to carry anywhere.
5|Very good. Compatible with both mac and windows. Fast 3.0. Works very fast transfer on my macbook air. Gives atleast 85 mbps transfer speed.
5|This is superb and excellent product from Seagate. I love it. Very handy and not bulky like my old external HDD. Just like a mobile phone...
4|Worth the price. It is handy, easy to store and easy to store as well. Thanks amazon, I got it well in time and the product quality was good
4|GOOD PRODUCT BUT A LITTLE BIT OF SOUND ARISE WHEN LOADING SOME FILES/FOLDERS TO IT......... PRODUCT OUTSIDE FINISHING WAS NOT GOOD..........
5|Awesome performance , design and affordable price. Data transfer rate is high only problem is the data cable which is short in length.
4|It is good and working fine as of now. The price was also very low as compared to market. Thank you. Mayank Sharma New Delhi
5|Amazing product working fine. Its portable as well as fashionable, easy to carry and good performance. received in good packaged condition.
5|Very good product..... Very slim and compact hard drive... Works with USB 2 and 3...... Highly Recommend this product.... Thank you amazon
4|No Issues with the Amazon delivery as well as product too. But nice to order it in offer period ,.. As I couldn't do it because of urgency.
5|Sexy slim design..great transfer speed on USB 3.0. Well, cable quality is not that good in comparison to WD..Overall a nice product to buy.
5|The product specifications and delivery were exactly as advertised. I am very happy both with the product and the purchase procees. Thanks.
5|Just go for it and u will be amazed with every feature of this model . . . I mean it's just awesome . . . The color is also very cool . . .
4|Very stylish and efficient!! Really worthy to buy!! Amazon.in got the best shipments.. nice work guys.. Even got the best deals..
4|using slim external hard drive for the first time. its quite light & comfortable. indeed a portable storage device for personal purposes!!!
4|When i got this one i was expecting it lil bigger, but its really tiny and cute, good quality product it is. bought it for 3080/-
4|Best hard disc ever in his range from SEAGATE. Compact, light weight, very smooth hard disc. Very quick service from AMAZON
5|It is much slimmer then expected. Looks good in blue and grey black combination. very well build product. highly recommended at this price.
5|Best buy in the given price range.
5|Excellent, prompt service from Amazon by a very polite delivery person. The Seagate 2 TB external hard drive is also an excellent product.
5|Seagate has always been my favorite brand for purchasing hard drives. I have been using it for more than 2 years without a single problem.
1|It's very slow...I felt like I am copying on floppy drive. Wasted my money.. couldn't test it immediately and return window is lapsed
4|Its very handy and lighter in weight. Plus looks wise- it's classier than other HDDs and Im using it with my Macbook and its working fine.
5|This is the second time am buying this product, i bought first one mid 2012, and its running perfectly. i strongly recommend this product.
5|its an awesome hdd.. excellent speed... so small and so slim.. very handy and easy to carry.. light weight.. a must buy.. worth the price.
5|THE BEST PRODUCT EVER...!!! Very Slim & Compact, can carry as mobile phone.. THE BIGGEST Thanks to Amazon for this DEAL...
5|speed is fine , inbuilt backup software, lightweight(comparative) and obviously slim, lesser/no noise then older devices adds it to 5 Star
4|its good but they not giving the pouch along with Device. it is very good if they wud have provided the pouch along with device
5|931GB Free space instead of 1TB :( Quick delivery (within 2Days), Thanks to Amazon :) Data transfer speed around 12 to 15mbps :S
5|Received in 4 to 5 days..packing was good..and without a single scratch....not to mention the awesome price..loved it...will shop again...
4|Seriously its very good product at performance level . Data transfer rate is very good as compare to other External hard drive's.........
1|The product was available at Rs.3899/- in the lightening deal, but the order was not being placed neither by the mobile app,nor by the website. N now the deal seems to be disappeared from the server and now it shows availablility for Rs. 4173/-Its all stupidity. A very good way to fool customers.
4|great speed of delivery of product also amazing speed of transfer of data. got delivery on 2nd day. if any problems occur i will post it.
5|Again I would say I would trust amazon for all electronic items yes lil expensive than other online sites but the product quality awesome
5|Great product.. 90mbps copying speed which is steady and hdd is protable smaller than a mobile.. Im so happy with this product.
5|it is nice product.But can some body tell me what were files u got in hard disk preloded ? Plz. Bcoz I have deleted them &want them back.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim is good very Good. Ease to use , no installation , just plug and use. Packing from Amazon is execellent .
5|Very useful gadget for back up as well as to store important files. Good stuff in competitive rate available only in Amazon. Thanks.
4|nice product but it's getting hot. i donnt know if it's a normal or not but slim and sexy hard drive. still i donn't get my 10% cash back
5|Great product, original and Seagate quality. Works well with Windows 7 and Linux. Working with USB power is really handy while traveling.
5|Product is very good. Very slim and easy to Cary. Speed is quite good for me. I purchase in diwali offer. Thanks to Amazon and the seller
5|Very good product, nice look, nic speed. totally value for money. I suggest jus go and buy. I'm using this n i'm fully satisfied product.
4|It is very slim and light weight. Got it for the least price of all online stores. My usage is mostly for my LG led tv and it suits best.
4|nice and what a great design.its really works good and have smooth and beautiful experience of first time online shopping with amazon.in
5|I went to this product after long comparison with some other hard disk and finally went for this. The price is affordable and good to go.
5|Received it within 2 days of ordering.Very light weight and efficient,fits in the pocket(pun intended :P) Totally satisfied with it.
5|Quick delivery by Amazon and good quality product received. It's a pocket size, slim hard drive. Highly portable on the go. Recommended.
4|Good and compact. Lighter than the earlier versions. Is a must have. Strongly recommended. Delivery by Aramex Couriers, the only grouse.
4|i ve problem with thw cable ! changed my cable 3 time ! instead of seagate try my passport ! bt this one works awsome for me ! cheers :D
4|Awesome product thinner and looking very beautiful. Performance is also good and warranty as per expected. Good in both 2.0 and 3.0 USB.
5|WRITING SPEED WAS OK VERY COMPACT AND PORTABLE (ONLY 11 CMS ) BE CAREFUL WITH ITS PORT YOU MAY DAMAGE IF YOU DONT USE SMOOTHLY
4|Quite slim and easy to carry. Has been working great till now. However the build quality is just OK. Does not look and feel sturdy.
5|Its a nice product. Value for Money I am happy to get it. As per the Amazon Service that is excellent. Thanks Amazon
5|Very small and sleek. Only issue I see is the indicator reflects light looks like on even in diaconnected state. Great value for money..
5|Backup your memories....! :) Awesome product from Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB, its easy to install, slim, portable, nice built quality.
5|Really slim looking & smart performance in dirt cheap cost. Amazon gives really good discounts. As well as service also was really good.
3|Value for money and good product..i am satisfied with this product. very nice product...thank you AMAZON..keep giving like this offers..
5|Real Slim & Beautiful Looks Amazing Product Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive I would suggest it for buyers
5|it awesome product i received this and online registration done fast and easy but (ttl space 1.81 )and cloud storage 200 gm very good i
4|Has been a year since i have been using this Working great but sometimes i get issues in connectivity when using it on my MacBook
1|worst product ever i had...totally waisted my money...dont buy this,,,copying speed like pendrive,,,even pendrive is better than this,,
4|it is nice product .if dont have earthing in your home you will find current flowing through hardrive. it had only 1.81 TB space .
5|This is the best product out there that can be brought at this price. Looking forward to buy another piece. Seagate doesn't disappoint.
5|This is the best hard disk with data transfer rate upto 20 to 30 Mb/S I FOUND ITS NOT MORE THAN THIS && CHEAK 4 WARRANTY ISSUE
5|exactly what you would have expected...i was grateful for the prompt guidance received when i made a silly mistake during initial use.
5|Best deal!!got it @3999..product is nice slim perfect!!!amazon was best in case as always!!faster delivery!!good packaging!satisfied!
4|Segate slim is really a slim HDD. And good brand.Good for slimness and not best its good for speed. I took half day to copy 200gb data.
1|Just after a week of buying it,the hard disc crashed.the seagate company not providing any means of backup of d info also.dnt buy it...
5|It's finally comes with new logo.
3|packing was not good as expected.
3|Not compatible with macbook so please choose accordingly. I could get my backup transferred from pc to Mac but it can't copy from Mac.
5|Sleek and slim design very easy to hold in hand. Most marvelous file transfer rate performance. Amazing delivery services from Amazon.
5|This is very small. Works fast. The problem is with the non replaceable head. It is not possible to switch to USB 3.1 after some time.
5|Extraordinary product with full configuration as described by seller. Very good deal price too as comparison to other external drives.
3|Good product with decent ~50mbps copying speed. Only problem was with delivery which was a week late than the said delivery date.
5|It has 5 ? stars rating from me . Nice and fluent working speed. Best for handling b'coz of its small and handy Shape and dimensions.
5|I was surprised by delivery of the product before time. Product is meeting all expectations and speed of data transfer is outstanding.
5|Awesome product.........copying speed nearer to 70mbps.....very small and easy to carry....no problem till now , using since 1 year...
4|I like the design & compact size, But Still feels data transfer is little slow, May be due to laptop is also slow but rest all is okay
4|its a good external hard drive with good design. but you can not password protect your drive because this option is not available
5|Didnt liked the looks.. But doesn't matter.. It does what it's made for .. It's a GO solid GO. Buy without hasitation..
5|100% Saticfaction from product, seller and SP Amazon! roughly used last one months perfect product. amazon keep doing good work.
5|Very compact and light weight. Back up software provided is very easy to install, run and manage your data. I recommend this product.
5|I really liked the product, looks wise its very nice, sleek and light. I recommend this product. Amazon delivery is also appreciable.
4|It has been 1 month i m using it and its fairly awsome Doesn't get heted up fast portable and yuo will be in love when u use it
5|Totally slim as they are saying. good speed. USB 3.0,great performance, never got stuck. Cool look , nice finish and lite weight..!!!
5|baby is so slim... superb performance. just go for it... no. 1 in laptop's internal hard drive &&&&&&&&& NO.1 in external harddrive
5|I am satisfied..except for the fact that the connector at the HD end should be handl3d delicately and rough use can damage the port..
5|The device looks are good. It's damn sleek and very light in weight. There's no other drive with such looks and performance. Love it.
5|One of the best speed of this HDD. Very light and compat. easy to carry. Amazon service is best service. Happy to get it from amazon.
5|Gud quality product bt it was delivered after 10 days of booking ...guys try to deliver order faster....other things are satisfactory
4|The hard disk was well priced, and had a bill too. The delivery time could have been better. Overall, it is a good place to purchase.
4|Nice product, small & slim. Only issue with Seagate is their data cables are very small. So most of the time HDD is hanging in Air :D
4|Just Stared using it.Speed is good & good product Value for Money. Reg Amazon good service and tracking system.On time delivery.
4|Everything is fine particularly the cute look. I am saddened by the short length of the connecting cord being only 18".
5|Excellent product. Seagate has never failed to satisfy me. Gives me a high speed and backs up data like promised. Highly Recommended.
5|Its extremely slick & light weight. Its also amazingly fast. Worthy buy. Its worth every penny i paid. Good packing as well
4|This Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) is really worth for money... Simple and compact; user friendly
5|A trusted product... This is second one for me, automatically suggest the satisfaction & trust I have gained post using this product.
5|Good quality product. Transfer stored is good, can't say it is excellent. But overall the writing and reading speed is satisfactory.
4|The product came in before the expected date and in perfect condition. Have used it once and it worked well. Hope no problem arises.
5|excellent product with super fast delivery. Amazon is amazon no one can bit in respect to quality, price and commitment. Keep it up.
5|It is a nice product with fast data transfer rate.Very fast delivery.Have been using it for past couple of weeks without any issues.
5|I've been using this product for 4 months.Great copying speed, handy and hardly a sound while working (quite quiet). A good product.
5|Had good experience wid previous product. This "slim" model is extraordinary. No need to give a second thought. Just buy it!
5|The Best harddisk I ever had.... Awesome look... Very compact & does the work perfectly what is expected from it. Excellent product.
5|nice product, delivered in proper time, price was good as compared to other online purchase from other electronic commerce company..
5|Very compact and light weight. The finish is sleek grey silver. Best part is that you don't need a separate power source.
4|product delivered in 4 days in good shape. the performance of the drive is also good. its very sleek and very fast in data transfer.
5|For what purpose I had purchased this Seagate Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive satisfy my need without creating problem in my work.
5|Great Product 1. Nice Design 2. Very fast 3. USB 3.0 4. Small Size but the connecting wire is Small but ok.
5|Very convenient and light. Good transfer speeds for 3.0 and 2.0. Would recommend for people in need for storage space with security.
5|Its good.More usefull. But easily get virus infection.there is no protection. its very slim and more dependable device. go for it!!!
4|Is Working Fine. Seagate Rockzzzzz.................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Please remove that validation in form filling
4|Sleek and sexy is the word I would use for this gadget. Very easy to carry. And because it is 3.0, data transferring is very speedy.
4|Hi all, Recently I brought a Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) from AMAZON , it was good
4|Good product, meeting my requirements and good software for backup by seagate! Value for money product. Also good service by Amazon.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB Hard Drive is light in weight handy and very cool Superb in Use Easy in transferring data...
4|Nice product..slim and easy to use. But can be improved in speed and design. Definitely recommend this to my friends and colleagues.
5|The HDD is very good. I have been using it for a while. I would recommend it to anyone looking for a safe places for their backups.
4|This 1 terardbyte hard disk from seagate will go a long way provided that u take care of ur hard disk rather than using it roughly.
5|Received this very quickly. Great design and look to the hard disk. Works just fine on MAC as well as windows. Must buy. 5 Stars!!!
5|really a good product. belive me m writting this review after using it for more than 3 months after purchase. purchase it blindly..
5|Product is very good more than my exception it is very slim , light weight & low size, easy to carry and handle speed also is good.
4|Fine one. Much handy and stylish. Easy to handle, Sleek design and good looking. It met all my expectations.. Amazon is also great.
5|Wonderful drive for data backup. Easy connectivity with Macs and fast copying of data into the disk and from it onto the hard disc.
4|I had ordered this product sometime back. And its jus awesome. Its so sleek compact and works amazing. Definitely worth the money!!
4|Very Slim, Weightless. Can handle easily.Seagate Backup Plus App is also good. But the outer body and cable quality is not so good.
4|The product is just awesome, easy to handle and great performance. Its pocket size personal data center can take wherever you want.
5|Excellent product and has very good writing speed. According to my laptop configuration it has a writing speed to max. 30 mb/ sec.
5|Amazon is just Amazing... Perfect delivery... Original Product... Great Offers... Seagate... It's Slim... Stylish... Super cool...
5|I just love it with the device.Its surface finish is very smooth and device gives the data transformation at a range of 25-90 MB/s
5|It's Slim, silent, doesn't get too warm and huge capacity for your data. I am using this a backup for my cloud stuff just in case.
4|Delivered almost timely, though a delay of 1 day. Quality is good and hard disk is working fine, Thanks to Amazon for a nice deal.
5|Extremely small, light and portable for a 2 tb hard disk. Heats up easily though. No extra power cable requirement is a huge plus.
4|it is small, handy, solid and performs well, just what I am expecting of it. Good pric e!! I can recommend with all my heart.
5|EXCELLENT SERVICE BY AMAZON. GOT IT MUCH BEFORE THE DELIVERY DATE... THE HDD IS GOOD AND VERY SLEEK. WILL RECOMMEND TO EVERYONE...
5|Very good transfer speed. after months of use ..very satisfied. Blue colour is appealing. Nice product. very slim.easy to carry...
5|handy Portable Compact Fits in your pocket just like your wallet. Fast Smooth and awesome :) :)
5|having wonderfull experiance carrying 2 tb data in a very light weighted device, no overheating problem and exellent transfer rate
5|Keep it up, great service. All things were move above expectations. . .. ... ....... .... ............ . ... ...
5|Portable slim with fine finish product. Very good and user friendly. Can carry easily. Working good. I think Price is affordable .
5|Best there is , as my western digital failed but seagate still is serving me more than expected . I vote for seagate , thank you
3|First of packing was very bad. While using be carefull bcoz it is very slim. If u get slip or drop forget the product.
4|Product is very elegant and quick as compared to earlier one of same Seagate HDD where size is little larger than the recent one.
4|If u are planing to use it with both Mac and Windows than please create the partition otherwise it might not work. Sleek and good
5|Nice device personally used it Trust me it's a nice product. Sold by: Cloudtail Nice packaging Working Very Well fully satisfied.
5|I m so happy with this hard disk....bcoz it is light in weight, easy to carry &working very fast... So i m satisfied with it
4|Product is wonderful and its value is more magnified if its delivered on time :) Amazon is doing good work. Keep it up team.
5|Awesome products...!!!as usual Amazon delivered within 24hrs. ..overwhelmed by the quality of service. ..and quality of products.
5|very nice product..... I am fully satisfied with it. And finally, thanks to amazon for bringing it at lowest price.....
5|Awesome deal, genuine product as described. very happy with product. But not with amazon delivery service,one week late delivery.
5|thanks to amazon for this offer. the prod. is grt. slim & well what to say its perfect.. waiting for some more grt. deals...
5|Product is really good very slime good quality more comfortable to carry anywhere its really good experience to use this product.
4|Good picking..slim design..fast data transfer.. I wish seagate and Amazon India could provide me 4 TB in USB powered model.
5|Awesome ? product . Want stable transfer speed and a premium look ,go for it. Seagate also have good service in India
5|Using this HDD from last 1 year and it is working fine till now. Write speed around 25 MB/s Read speed around 30 MB/s.
5|Really It's 1 Whole Terra byte when you format it with ExFAT. And The Warranty also kicks in. Really A nIce Purchase by my side.
4|NICE ,SLIM, STYLISH LOOK . Very handy. Transfer speed is good. In my openion , shockproof case is a must buy along with it.
4|Extremely Slim.... Good performance.... Very easy to handle.... Facing Heating problem some time... Over all i like this Product
5|Good and lite product easy to carry but the data cable are now been designed new and change so need to carry two seprate cables.
5|As of now things are fine. The product is really thin and small, fits your pockets perfectly. Read write speeds are as expected.
2|Not much satisfied for the reason being that whenever connected with laptop the connectivity gets lost often. My bad investment
4|the product so far is working fine ...... very slim and handy and with the weight just awesome. Thanks for the product
5|Good to have if you are looking for a slim and fast portable storage. I found cheapest with Amazon ! All the best !!!
5|Wonderful product super price. Goes well with a mac. Speed is also noticeably higher. Finally it is a great deal.
4|compact and light weight, best buy at this price, i liked very much ! i would recommend this product! fits in pocket easily
5|I have found it perfect as described, it is worth buying value for money. I would recommend this product to all of my friends.
4|Nice, slim and very compact. Fits in trouser pocket very easily. Read/Write speed are good and completely vibe free. Love this.
5|Slim & sexy with high performance. Love the shinny logo on it.Really slim enough to carry easily. Well done Seagate!
4|It got delivered a day earlier (than promised by Amazon) and am happy with this slim HDD. Really convenient and handy to carry.
5|Wonderful product working perfectly. I am Happy with the performance. Speed of data copy is good and the HDD is also very slim.
5|Lightweight hard disk.Transfer speed is good. overall a nice product. Go for this in this range. customer service is also good.
4|Fits my pocket easily and can carry anywhere like mobile phone. It also has cloud backup software to backup data over internet.
5|Colour is very nice, product is of May-2014 packing packing is very good , we are highly satisfied with product after receiving
4|Easy to setup. Value for money. Only issue is rate of colored hdd(blue, silver etc) is more than the black one. Thats not cool!
5|It is a quality storage product by seagate and excellent service by amazon too, fast and on time. I will recommend the product.
4|In my budget... but the free 100 gb cloud space is only for a year so post that you will have to renew.... Unhappy with this..
5|small, light waight and slim design.copying speed with USB3 Port is up to 60 MB per Second. also very fast delivery by AMAZON.
5|VEry slim & compact. The device is user friendly and Stores all my details. If u are looking for a compact device go for this.
4|Product is outstanding and design is also slim it's good if it is metal body like expantion as it's protected against damages.
5|I odered this and soon got it with nice packing, awesome performance and transfer speed. I just love it Thanks amazon :-)
4|Excellent product, slim and good at great price. Only problem is very small cable, about 6-7 inches long. Should work on this.
5|It is very nice. Delivered within 2 days. I checked it by copying 100 GB and deleting the same. I liked the colour. Thank you.
4|I thought that disk would be silver on both sides, but only front side was silver, rear was black. Product is working awesome.
5|It good one to use. and very good because of its slimness. If Seagate think to reduce the rate for 3 and 4 tb it will be nice.
4|V Good Hard disk, Slim light Weight, Nice Looking and Works faster without any issue. I will recommend this!!! just go for it,
5|pros 1.its is so slim which is a great advantage. 2.the backup is good. cons none.
4|SEAGATE BACKUP PLUS SLIM 1 TB PORTABLE EXTERNAL DRIVE IS VERY GOOD ,BUT THE CHORD IS VERY SMALL. DIFFICULT TO USE THE PRODUCT.
4|.working good.... hope for the best in future.. very slim and portable...it has Superb quality and great speed of data trasfer
5|Its very good...portable and dependable,I will recommend it to buy for data storage. The size is fitted into your pocket.
5|Amazingly light weight and easy to carry. Perfect Drive for storage of data externally. Great product from Seagate for storage
5|One of the best and external HDD available. And probably the slimmest of all. Reasonably high transfer rate. Highly recommend.
5|This is really slim and is very good. Speed is also good. I would really recommend to anyone who is planning to buy a 1TB HDD.
5|A great product that fulfills the needs with ease of performance and the slim looks are an added advantage. Overall excellent!
4|its working really well to my expectations. And i would reallu recomend this to people who are looking for really good backup.
4|The reason this product skips a star because of actually memory of 931 GB but it claims 1 TB. Otherwise recommendable product!
5|I wanted to buy a 1TB hard disk which was compatible with Mac OS too. As you'd expect, I did my initial research online to determine which brand of hard disk I should go for. For an expert advice, I even consulted a friend who buys a new hard disk every year. I own a Western Digital 500 GB and never had any complaints. But my expert friend recommended that I go for Seagate. Without further arguments I started searching for the best 1 TB hard disk. Incidentally, on 1st July, Amazon was selling the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB for an amazing price at just Rs. 3699 as Deal of the Day! I had never before shopped from Amazon, so this was my first purchase. I ordered the hard disk on 1st July and received the shipment on 3rd July. You have to give it to Amazon for their speedy delivery and great packaging. When I opened the package I was instantly in love. The hard disk is incredibly slim! It is almost half the thickness of my existing WD hard disk, with double the storage space. It's also quite light and feels great when held, with is curved corners and sleek design. The hard disk is perfectly compatible with Mac. I love this product.
4|As the name says, its really slim.. Very small and handy.. Size of a palm... And yes quality is good.. Go for it...
5|Very useful product and easily take backup with software provided with it.very slim and light weight, easy to carry anywhere.
5|perfect drive to store your data, it is fast & light weight. definitely a buy product. Amazon delivery was on time as always.
5|Very good product, i got 20 - 22 MB speed in USB 2.0. and i dont have any USB 3.0 port in my Laptop to check speed... :(
4|Happy with the product. Works as mentioned in the specs. Maybe the build quality can be slightly better
5|My first external HD. It's very slim, height is smaller than some Smartphones and fast of HD is good in both windows and mac.
5|easily pocketable 1tb drive. build quality feels good. data transfer speed is best in class. and its a seagate. so go for it.
5|Amazon is amazing!!!! Quality of service is excellent. Product quality is also excellent. Highly recommended for reliability.
5|Awesome product Sexy and sleek look Extremely light product Dont think much ... its a bang on product at a meagre price :D
4|Good product with as promised it had given!!! and could also work with as possibilities needed and give a positive outcome!!!
5|Very slim and light weight. Transfer speed is too good. Surely u can buy it. I got it just in 1.5days. good work amazon.
5|Until nw i have not faces any problem with this product.... while connecting through 3.0 the transfer speed is excellent
5|Dislike : Very short cable Speed : Very Fast Slim : Good I would like to purchase 2 TB if price will go down.
4|Nice product to buy..looks slim and effective. Copies the data quickly and its portable to carry anywhere while journey time.
4|Slim when compared to other harddisk in the market. i will suggest to go for this HD Amazon service was good.
5|Very easy installation Easy traacking of back up process Does not get heated Option to choose files to back up
4|Backup Plus Slim is a very good product from Seagate ( fast, slim and portable). thanks to amazon for launching good deals.
4|The back up system is fine. The usual Seagate simplicity. Would recomend it to others looking for extra storage plus back up.
1|Too slow to use.. dissapointed
5|Fast delivery, Amazing product
5|arrived a day late on 20 Aug..
5|Nothing wrong with it till now
5|product is delivered as described , as described i have got 200 GB cloud space. Product is very good.
4|ITs working but website which is given by product is not working so it could be problem with some people otherwise no issue.
4|It was delivered as promised. So i appreciate that and now i am using it se what is in future with it. Thank you
5|I would like to recommend people who are searching for it. Please go for it. It's really a very nice product and i loved it.
5|Nice product .. Writing after 12 days of use. Good speed 20-22 MBPS writing in USB 2.0 and 27-28 MBPS in Reading..
5|Really Nice product light weight...if there is a discount considering upto like 4000 then i would recommend you to go for it
4|Its a greate device, very slim and easy to carry And the delivery by amazon was quite fast and got the package on time.
5|I am writing this review after using this hard disk 1 year... it is an amazing product... don't think twice just grab it....
5|Awesome Product.. Worth for each penny.. Slim yet powerful to store. Lighting fast speed to transfer the date. :)
5|Great Portable Ext. Hard Drive for mostly travelling use of purpose............. Great for system backup your Important data
5|This hdd is good have 930 gb available space transfer speed on usb 2.0 30mbps and warranty also verified on their website.
5|Fast and safe delivery. very slim and sleek. lesser price than other competitor sites. satisfied with the product.
5|I luv it.... its really really small and sleek.... Seagate did an amazing job on this HD. No problems so far....Go for it...
5|Very good and speedy service of amazon And product is also good around 50to60MBps transferring speed and beautiful look
5|Looks sleek and really works well.....if u need an external hard disk look no further....the inbuilt apps also works well...
4|Very good product by Seagate. Portable, fast and reliable product by Seagate. Thanks to amazon for fast service of the item.
5|Good one.. well packed on reasonable prices, on time delivery .. tested ok work properly with good speed.. Thanks
3|Pro - Value for money. Size is really small. Cons -No password protection to protect your data from unauthorise access.
5|The price is very cheap when compared with other websites...Also the product is working fine. I received a sealed piece. :)
5|hard disk is really slim,small and portable.The transfer rates are really good,setup was very easy and you use it instantly.
5|preferred it over WD ultra passport.... This hard drive is indeed very slim,but it is also strong.. .. .. .. .. ..
5|Really a nice product abd is very useful device to be with everyone.I got this obe at the cheapest rate at amazon as copared to other sites.Amazons shipment was lightening as I got it in 2 days with nice packing.Thanks amazon .......
2|Software not up to the mark. Its difficult to understand the procedure and judge if the synchronization is complete or not.
5|Superb built, nice packaging, some difficulty in courier but overall satisfied. Guarantee valid on Seagate official site...
4|Go for it ...i even got a transfer speed Of 42mbps.........i was amazed to see the performance. Amazon hatts off to u....?
5|The best hard disk i ever used in last 2 years. Brilliant features includes makes this item user friendly to everyone.
4|Really nice to hold and see. sleek body . But the pre installed dash board software doesn't work on mac ox 10.5.8
5|Delivered next day with normal delivery option. I am using similar product since 6 years and hope this too will be durable.
5|quick in backing up the data; decent price and working well since purchase [jan,2015]. compact in size, fits in pocket
5|prompt service and product is as expected and in perfect condition, excellent service Product is very good, keep it up
5|Awesome HDD, it's Soo useful for backing up and very easy to use, Seagate at its Best, I have received the product on time.
5|Very nice product. Slim. Data transfer rate is good. Since one month I am using. Works well for me and met my expectations.
5|M using this product from last one month, no fault I have found yet, thanks amazon and seagate , plz focus on packaging....
5|On time delivery Didn't Face any problem while using the HDD overall fantastic performance Thank you amazon.
4|this is a very good product, very much portable very much light weighted very much slim usb 3.0 is nice
5|Sleek Slim catchy... I loved it when i saw it.. recommend for everyone in need.. go for it.. Thumbs Up.
5|Amazing looks..The best in the market I would say..Go for it no second thoughts about the performance and looks. Good Luck.
4|as per my concern it works nicely, becoz i bought it recently i cannot say further on this product thanks,,,,,,,,,,,,,
4|Good product....NIce one I REALLY LIKE THIS BUT SPEED IS NOT CONTINUOUS SOME TIME IT IS VERY HIGH SOME TIMES IT IS LOW
4|It is good and working fine as of now. The price was also very low as compared to market. Thank you. Abi- kerala
5|This is my 2nd External Storage device from Seagate and mind you this product rocks! Great Style and value for money!
5|after receiving the item - i'm so far satisfied with it (it's been a month now) - lets see how it responds 6 months later.
4|Good product, Amazom delivered it on time. I bought the product 6 months ago and no issues faced till now with the product
5|This external hard disk quality is very good. Data transfer Speed is also good. Thanks to Amazon for better services.
5|Bought this in the summer sale for a reasonable bargain. Works as it should, is tiny and light- what more could I ask for?
5|Got it delivered in 2 days, so g8 job amazon. This product is perfect for data backup and also provides with cloud backup.
4|Excellent HD . 1.Very compact,it fits in shirt packet 2.Red color is awsome 3.Very fast data transfer
5|Till now, it is working fantastic. Thank you very much! Also Amazon's supply chain is mind blowing. Keep it up.
5|Very Small and compact. Aluminium front looks good. a must buy, if you are searching for a small sized portable hard disk.
5|best thing about this hard drive is size of this... Awesome product i brought it under 4K working perfectly
5|HAD AN AWSMM SHOPPING EXPERIENCE WITH AMAZON..RECOMMENDED MY FRIENDS AND FAMILY MEMBERS TO SHOP WITH AMAZON AND SAVE MORE.
5|its great. amazon delivery is also good. got 931 GB and it working very smoothly. only drawback- the cable is very short.
5|Lighting fast drive, getting read and write speeds upto 50-60 Mbps. Using it as a time machine for my iMac. Great product.
5|Specially liked the slim design good for carrying it along with you in pocket. its light weight , happy about the product
5|A finest product at a very reasonable price by amazon. I sincerely recommend this for your PC. All the very best to Amazon
5|Really cool and fast and light weight. I love it. 240 GB data was copied very quickly and I will recommend it to my frens.
4|Well... This device is smart, slim, and trendy. Data transfer rate is high. Thanks to Amazon for making my work easy...!!!
5|Thank u Amazon for providing this item in such a reasonable price..... Its such a cute device with all the latest features
4|Very slim, and beauty it very useful for my external storage of my movies, songs, games and etc.. thanks for the product..
5|its just awesome one .....i love it very much & it must be worthable one........i really love it .....go ahead with amazon
4|I have get it in just two days good packaging Product in factory condition Satisfy me like its name. Amazon
4|working nice stable temperature but the trance for rate is 10 to 20 Mbps only ( for both my laptop and desktop)
5|Very good product by Seagate.very small in size working pretty fast.this is too good for portability. Very small in size.
5|Its very slim and portable. Can carry it in my pocket. Works really well. Its fast as well. Overall very happy with this.
4|Files are copying in good speed. as of now, i didnt face any issue..hopefully it will continue in future.. :-) .. Nice..!
5|Got a 2 tb for 6500rs, no where I cud find such great deal. A genuine product n spot on delivery made me a happy customer
1|Product is not as per my expectation. It is working very slow with laptop pr pc. If u have return process plz let me know
5|Had a good experience with this product. However, could make the connector more firm(cannot hold the weight of the drive)
5|So far it is working perfectly. The transfer speed is fyn jst a little prblm I felt is it gets heated aftr some time
2|My computer cannot detect this hard drive after using few times. will have to contact customer service to get this fixed.
5|It is an amazing product and needs no long reviews to show how much good this hard drive is. Just purchase it!
4|I placed order for Seagate Backup Plus Slim, it's delivered 3rd day. It's working fine and it is same as display on site.
5|It'a good product. Received product in very good packing with all bill and warranty info. Overall its a good product
5|Wonderful & very useful product. Comes with auto back-up software, so no need to do much once it is connected to your PC.
5|Fantastic for price. very slim. cant believe its 2tb in such a small package.very responsive. good read and write speeds.
5|I ordered this trendy looking slim hard drive which is very useful & attractive.I am very satisfied with the performance.
5|product is slim and good , write speed is up to 30MB/s, delivered on time, in this price group it is a excellent product.
5|slim in size, and faster than WD.. serves the purpose well and compact in size with usb 3.0 fastest among its peers.
5|Its fantastic , working fine ...its size is amazing ...let me see its life and longivity ....bettet than 2TB ....good one
4|This is a good product and worth of money.You can go for this Segate Backup Plus Ext hard drive. I am using it and happy.
5|Product is good, Hard drive is slim and light weight as mentioned in product details Packaging was good Silver color looks nice
5|Its a very good hard disk we can carry it like a mobile phone any where and copying the files is very fast in less time.
4|Product is good, no issue found. Amazon should also provide invoice copy in digital format. Like other flipkart and all.
5|Lovely product... Too compact, no noise is coming out of it.... No Heating Issues at all... Love u Seagate...
5|Small enough to be kept in your pocket, large enough to store a lot of data. Good read write speeds. No issues as of yet
4|Slim hard disk. My internal hard drive crashed and I couldn't take backup. Bought this to keep backup of great memories.
4|Good one, it was delivered within 24 hours as I paid extra Rs 90 for it. But very good product. Metalic slim and trendy.
5|Superb product by Seagate, very light in weight and very good build quality. Nice Packaging & Speedy delivery by Amazon.
5|Excellent hard-disk! I bought it during some excellent offer so price was very reasonable also. Very slim and looks good
5|Amazing Product. Build quality is really good. Transfer rate increases only after the installation of seagate dashboard.
5|G8.... excetly as per my execption... very good one as compare to other External Hard Drive. Great team work Amazon
4|Amazon offered it at throwaway price..good brand..good product..Can be bought when amazon offer it in Today Deals etc.,
4|Couldn't say more!! I'm very much satisfied with the product and even it's rate. The product surely met my expectations.
5|Sleek, compact. It is easy to carry. The speed is comparably good too. Price was also good.l when I buyed it. Go for it.
4|Nice purchase very compact and easy to carry . its is fully recommended for othrs who wants to get this type of product
4|i am using this drive from last one month. no issues so far, cheaper than any other 1tb drive. good service from amazone
5|i m very satisfied wit its performance n da service by amazon. will suggest da same for people thinking to buy hard disk
5|Working like a charm from last 2 months. Speed is good.registered the prkduct on the website also and it was very easy.
5|Its size is very small compared to other hard disk and material is also good. Moreover the transfer speed is great too.
5|The process is excellent and the update to the client at every stage is very good. The delivery time is also very less.
5|Have always been a fan of Seagate. Good reliable product. Very fast delivery by amazon. Not to mention amazing pricing.
5|Very good product , specially tthe slim design with good performance. And really good delivery by Amazon(in a day)
5|Excellent product. compact, lightweight, superfast usb3. Fits in your jeans pocket. value for money, peace of mind...
5|I received seagate backup plus ext hard drive through Amazon. It satisfied me very much as I had received a good piece.
4|Seems like a good product......working well. Amazon delivered the product earlier than scheduled, with great packaging.
5|Its very slim, light weight and high performing hard disk. The cable could have been a bit longer. Write speed is good.
5|It gives Good performance, small, handy and gives good transfer speed. It also fits in my pocket and doesn't cost much.
5|i loved this product . i am using this product since 8 years. comfirt and portable too . amazon rocks...
5|it is so slim that it fits your pocket ..... great design and good transfer speed ...... best price available on amazon
5|its very good products with slim and we can travel every where we can it is very fast copying the files and using data.
4|very good product at very very competitive price, well below than available at stores. i recommend it. thanks to amazon
4|Carry all Your Memories in Your Pocket at Affordable Price. Never Loose Your Memeory Have them Preserved for Life time!
5|This is very good hard drive support with mac and windows without formatting. very slim and compact size plug and play.
5|Awesome is the word to describe the utilities of this hard disk. A smaller than mobile size gazette meant to last long.
4|Easy to use, just plug n play. Easily backed up my data. It is slower on some machines have lower version of USB drive.
1|The product stopped working after 4 months of purchase. External drive didn't get recognise by PC. I lost all my data.
5|Best delivery by Amazon. The product is very good and portable it's the best. I would certainly recommend to buy this.
5|Its data transfer speed is good but after few time it became slower..... Registration procedure is good and easy
4|Is it genuine product because I tried to warranty register in Seagate website its showing Invalid Serial number, reply
4|Got delivered the second day after ordering. Good service by Amazon. Very good product at very less price 6650 :)
5|Got it at an affordable price ! Light weight, Sleek & Small, High data transfer rate, overall a good have product
5|Fast delivery by amazon. Product is light weight and compact. Lesser priced compared when compared to instore pricing.
5|Overall,its an amazing external hard disk. excellent transfer speed & Nice build quality too. Fast delivery by Amazon.
4|It was my first xperience on amazon.Nice one. It met my Expectation. transfer speed is also around 80 mbps. nice speed
4|Amazing petite form for a 2tb drive. Fast 3.0 Usb connectivity. Working fine for me and best price fivefold by Amazon.
4|Very comfortable to use and handy. Data stored are very much safe and huge space coverage to store maximum data.
4|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim has a lot to like, including its great performance, small & slim size & unbeatable price.
4|I am fully satisfied for purchasing my hard disk from amazon. I always do my online shopping from amazon. Thanks a lot
5|Prompt delivery n good price
5|Just one Word... Awesome....
5|Good Product and best price.
1|My first purchase from amazon, that too a very bad experience. Firstly, very poor product delivery.( ordered on 4th june and received it on 14th june evening-2 days late than mentioned date) Secondly, atleast expected a good product after such late delivery but once receiving the product one can make out whats inside. The outer box was mutilated as if handled very improperly and subjected to huge pressure. On opening inside there was not even a single air bag, only had bubble wrap that too with product on one side bubble wrap on another.(since the outer box was double the area of the hdd box) Lastly, the hdd hanged the very first moment while copying files in it. Later gav a max speed of 45mb/s on usb 3.0 and heated up a lot. Finally, totally disappointed with amazon service and product both. Not at all expected from AMAZON...
4|It is ultra slim and an extremely fine product which makes a great compact,user friendly and an attractive device. :)
5|it is very good product, the connectivity is seamless, the transfer is lightning fast. have seen no issues as of now.
5|best product as always. SEAGATE but it was 200GB less. it was because we are getting the size on the cloud
2|It's been just aa month I got this product and I used only couple of times. This got corrupted and all the data lost.
5|Seagate always on top of the world,great price quote by amazon,geniune product ,good packing simply loved it!!!!
4|Well packed. Nice HDD. 928 GB available. Seagate icon goes missing after sometime and ugly local disk icon comes
5|I think this is the best drive in the price range. Very slim,fast writing, easy to set up. Very good design and feel
5|Its slim and cool.. Very Fast data transfer. Total 930 MB available for use. But its size and weight is just awesome.
5|Superb experience... especially after installing the Seagate Dashboard, the back up is a smooth, fast and up to date.
5|awesome product Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) and Amazone service. 100% satisfied
5|Excellent product.. Nice slim and very handy.!!!! And the speed that it transfers files is amazing to watch!!!!!
4|works very nice over usb 2.0 with transfer rate of 30 mbps For USB 3.0 works even faster about 42-43 mbps.
5|This is a good product - really slim and fast to use. The cost was also very reasonable. This is a recommended buy...
5|serves my purpose,fits my pocket and does the job well.good product. i am glad that i choose amazon for this purchase
3|there are a few issues with certain long file extensions being copied. Otherwise it is ok for the price offered.
5|A very good product and indeed worth to purchase. I would like to recommend this to new buyers. I'm also loving this.
4|Very sleek product, works very well with USB 3,0 Port. Transfer achieved 32MB/sec. Need to buy a case for protection.
5|It is a very useful device for me...and it is very helpful to me And I received this product on accurate time...
5|Nice product, received with good packing with complete accessories. Also got product within estimated delivery time.
5|Excellent build quality. Works on both Mac and PC. Really good transfer speed. Very compact. Overall I love this HD.
4|Product is very good &very useful , the only serious complaint i have about it is ,the connection cord is very short
4|Quick Delivery Sleek and light in weight Genuine, I registered the product on Seagate website for warrenty
5|Seagate is best and this version even comes with Dashboard application plus an access to Seagate cloud so just great
5|Works excellent.... the small files in 10+ gbs will take slightly longer time to copy on disc but that's expected...
5|It is very good product. Packing is also very good. Read and write speed is awsome. It is slim, small and not noisy.
5|2TB Backup plus slim fa just 6350??? I Was Very Lucky to have it at this low cost thank you Amazon.. keep amazing us
5|very nyc product..its not only slim but super slim you can easily carry in ur pocket..transferring speed is average.
5|i love the product but amazon still didn't give me my cash back of freedom sale i buy this product 4 month ago
4|The hard disk arrived in a good condition and is working well.I have registered the same on seagate online as well.
5|great experiences...........good in look & accessibility.........outstanding speed..... thank u seagate.......
4|Awesome HD . Outer metal covering is great . It's very slim and comfortable to carry. Worth of price .go for it !!
5|Yes. The product is exactly what I expected from it. I got it at a cheaper price too. Thanks to the special offer.
5|It is very good. Speed of accessing data, copy data is very good. only the cable length of USB cable is very small.
5|I have been using Seagate Hard drives for the past 5 years, and never had a single problem. A really great product.
5|The speed of taking backup and transfer of media , both of them have the good speed as compare to Wd passport Slim.
5|nice product i have no problem till date . good seller and also received my order the next day of placing my order.
5|It is a nice piece. Small and light. Easy to carry. Only issue is I am not getting its cover. Neopack is too large.
5|This product i got from amazon in a very reasonable price.....this product has got back up option compare to others
5|seagate is great tech n pioneer in the industry, very nice service from Amazon India, very satisfied with service .
5|Strong case - Compact Drive - Secure data - I like it very much!!! Appreciate the number of choices given by Amazon
5|Very much useful in my day today life, Best of all to my family, my son enjoys a lot with it.can save numerous data
5|Its working very nice.. Its look and design is also nice..its speed is about 100mbps... Slip design looking nice n.
4|Got the product within 3 days of order . This product was available at lesser price compared to other online sites.
4|Connection is not stable, If you move the Hard Disk a little bit then the connection with laptop get disconnected.
4|This is a good item I felt I had purchased thro' Amazon. I had gifted this to my daughter. Worth the money I feel.
5|I got this HDD on reasonable price with tampered proof packaging and meet the all expectations. Keep it up Amazon.
1|Very bad as I had to go ahead with warrenty in less than 15 days and one time use... The media stopped reflecting.
5|Works well. Its more compact than my previous Seagate Backup Plus 500 Gb Hard drive. Even fits in my shirt pocket.
4|I love the product However, the connector near the hard disc seams a bit and looses connection abruptly some times
5|Awesome external HDD....very compact...stylish....can keep in Pocket..got it at special price... Go for it...
5|for a hard drive either it functions or it does not function at all. In my case, it functions exactly as intended.
4|segate hard disk is excellent product. transfer speed 20 mb to 21 mb. main advanced is not heating many more time.
5|excelent product and delivery on time by amazon. Never format this HD. It has a special file to backup your files.
5|very good product..fits very well in pocket and copying speed is awesome...it taken 15 sec to copy a 700 MB movie.
5|been using it for three to four months now and travelling with it for few times, no trouble yet, PERFECTLY working
5|the product meet to my expectations and working well. (y) happy with amazon service. go for it without any doubt..
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is very Good in look and performance also. All the Best.
5|Very Useful and Great Value for money, this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB Portable External Hard Drive. Amit Gupta
1|not upto the mark. highly disappointing speed for read/write. getting an average speed of 25mbps and a max of 50mbps - during write time even when it is connected it usb 3.0. any help, as to how i can rectify this problem ? or replacement is the only solution? reply will helpful.
5|There were no issues with registration on seagate portal and claiming the OneDrive offer. Everything good so far.
5|Ultra slim hard drive and super fast delivery from Amazon.. I have bought it at 6500 + 10% cashback. Great deal.
5|I like it very much. it works very easy there is no any problem. you can trust the seagate and on the amazon too.
5|The styling needs to be improved bt other than that its a really good product to buy.. Great deal for the price..
5|Awesome delivery by Amazon. The drive is much smaller than my previous Seagate and WD drives. Works like a charm!
5|Awesome portable storage device. Fits in pocket. Good finish. Fast transfers with USB 3.0. Total value for money.
5|got this product in 21Hours and the product is genuine and works like a charm on my macbook pro mid 2012 model !!
2|the usb cable connection to the port is a bit loose. i am not sure if that's how it supposed to be. disappointed.
5|Works well, Faster than most in its range and competition. Its small and compact. Made of good quality materials.
5|EXCELLENT . RECEIVED IN GOOD CONDITION AND WORKING VERY FINE. SPEED IS GOOD. SIZE IS VERY COMPACT. EASY TO CARRY.
5|i got it in faster than i expected, love the packaging , great one. works well , slim and stylish easy to carry .
4|Best for its price. If pouch would given then it gets more than 5 star reading . Buy it only on amazon.
5|Nice product, I seached almost every where for the best price and finally got it on Amazon, will surely buy more.
4|Yup liked it,, not as slim as expected when seen on online videos but still i'm grateful to Amazon. Thanks a lot.
2|sir I bought Seagate 1TB Portable External slim Hard Drive from your site and received it on time.. but it is not in working condition.. it is not working at all.. please see to it it was my first shopping from amazon.in and really dissappointed. :( please reply and support. Thanks
5|Another great product from seagate. The build quality and the finish of the product is great. The hard drive is small in size and very light weight which is another advantage. The read/write speed is very good, thanks to usb 3.0 A must buy for anyone who wants to expand his storage option.
4|The product is exactly I have selected to purchase in amazon. Improve delivery delay. Price also fine.
5|Great product.... although reached little late...still it's serving the purpose I bought it for, Thanks Amazone!
5|This product supplied by you is ok and also served my purpose. I'm personnally using it without any problem yet.
5|Superb small size, very light, very fast, ultimate hard disk. The thickness is half of WD 2TB hard disk. 5 star.
2|System will not detect this hard disk. After so many times plugged in plug out system will detect the hard disk.
4|Good quality of hard drive, till now haven't faced anyissue. Build quality and Transfer speed is also good.
1|Its not working properly.......l am afraid of being lost all of my data.......ohhh my god... What to D. Now?????
4|Good and slim Hard Drive, using for the last few days and so far it has been good with no issues and noce speed.
5|Very good portable External Hard Disk. Good Product from Seagate and Thanks to Amazon for Good and Fast delivery
5|Absolute quality. Gorgeous look and feel. Light on pocket. Super reliable and speedy. Installs without a hiccup.
5|a good buy, amazon delivered on time and the piece was in good condition and its working fine, go buyyyyyyyyyyyy
4|Working good, thanks all. some time automatically reconnects to my laptop, don't know which is the problem.
5|Best in class, Transferring speed is good and in-spite of all this it is from one of the best brand of hard-disk
5|Slightly slow on a Usb 2 connection but great otherwise. Quality finish and useful software. Highly recommended.
4|It's very handy ,good looking and useful tool. Data transfer is also very fast. I got it very cheap in Amazon.in
4|It is a nice product to have. look and design part is good and better than other similar products in the market.
5|Slim and really good. If you need a back up storage, I would recommend this to you. Affordable and light weight.
4|I bought this on 9th of May 2014 and it has high speed transfer rate. You can easily buy it with affordable cost
4|its good but read and write speed not according to expectation.........or not according to given specification.
4|Very good product...sleek and handy....easy to carry in ur pocket.... n amazon delivery was quick and efficient
4|It was Nicely placed on time .Product is good with latest manufactured product.I got 3 years of warranty on it.
5|Great product. Loved it. Good speed. Compact packing. Only thing is that the data cable could have been longer.
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim is superb, writing speed is amazing. Hard disk is looking very slim and light weight.
4|Amazon delivery service is very good and seagate hard disk size also good less weight compared to wd hard disk.
5|no fault so far. got it for low price than market price. thank you amazon. from now on, i will buy from amazon.
4|Amazon service is amazing .... And seagate hard disk is very slim and prefect for travel use ..... Great thanks
4|Very light weight and compact size to store 2TB. Easy to instal & backup your data. No noise & heat generation.
4|I m using from last 2 or 3 weeks and its really good product. Easy to carry and speed of copy is too very good.
5|i like it ..... more than 150 Mb/s transfer speed slim n easy to carry n i suggest to other also
3|This is a very good drive. Very tiny which looks really cool. And the titanium finishing is icing on the cake.
5|SanDisk, really it won't be decent to say this product just good. It is unbelievably awesome product. Loved it.
5|Excellent item, Worth for Price I got the item delivered in just 02 days. Amazing fast product delivery. About the packing: Wisely packed with the help of Air pockets for safety of product. Nice packing Product: Firstly the look of the small pocket sized portable HDD is beautiful. Can assure they will add a charm to your laptop. Amazingly fast with USB 3.0 on laptop. I Have transferred data @ of 80 mbps on it (Windows 8). Extremely lightweight and small for carrying. Warranty provided by seagate. Amazing product.. I purchased it at a price of 3800.00..... I think after that the price has never come such low again. Thank u Amamzon
5|Great product & value for money. The seller services is outstanding. Recommended everyone to buy this product..
5|Awesome storage device. Freed lot of space on my pc. Data transfer speed is good. Avg speed is 50-60 mbps
5|Working Fine. Kept it plugged for a week 24/7. No isssues. It is even smaller than 1TB version of backup plus.
4|Amazon delivery as expected and seagate backup plus is good. but it connector is loose and not a good quality.
5|Best external hard disk i have every used. Just go for it. For 1 year it is working fine without and glitches.
5|I bought it under 50% discount. Delivery was fast as well. Shout out to seagate fr such a classy product. ??
4|The speed I thought is not expected...its 3.0 USB but not very fast... But its small ,light weight n smart...!
5|Very Compact and easy to handle. I got it 2 months back, affordable price in Amazon. So far it`s working fine.
5|Product is very slim (as name suggests) and works seamlessly. I have transferred huge data without any issues.
4|Its working fantastic in ever Gadget that I aattached it with.....its having great transfering speed...so good
5|I just bought this product. 1.Very slim design 2.Easy to set up 2.Very fast data transfer
5|I really like the Seagate backup Plus slim 1TB. It is very handy. As usual the delivery by Amazon was awesome.
5|very good product...light in weight..has to be handled a bit cautiously...more than satisfies my requirement..
4|Good product and light weight. Speed's are decent but compared to Sony 1 TB 3.0 drive the copy speed is lower.
3|good, but For 1 tb hard disk i get only 920 gb. so that is only draw back for this product nearly 1oo gb loss.
4|The hard disk is good But I don't knw how to use 200GB cloud So plz tell me the process to register
5|i am not a active user, but this one is very compact and copying files seems very fluid.Very compact as well.
5|Amazon charge 100/- for the delivery for 24 hours although I am their regular customer. Product is good.
4|Extremely Slim...Recommended Available Memory : 931GB out of 1 TB where as WD is providing 960 GB usable
5|The item is superb. It gave me 108MB/s writing speed(On USB3). Light weight. Slim. Good one. One thing to remember that the item as shown in picture is not we get. We get latest model which is not having this seagate labelled on top and also there is change in the logo also. I have verified the picture with their website. Hope this helps. Any doubts please let me know.
5|Product is sleak and light weight. Packing and hard drive found safe after receiving It. It works faster too.
5|5 stars Blindly Best delivery service in 2 days of ordering Product as described ... Thumbs up ??
5|Best for the backup. Lowest price i got this. Slim, very easy to put on front shirt pocket too. Nice product.
5|It's a really nice product. Great speed works on Windows, Linux, Mac. But it and you won't regret it.
2|Product is good as described, but w/r speed is slow than xpected. 2 star for delayed delivery (17days) .
5|Quick delivery, perfect harddisk to protect all your data. It works as described very slim and easy to carry.
4|A Nice Product but only drawback is that it is having very thin plastic body which needs care in handling it.
4|its compact .. metal body .. so easy to carry any ware. USB 3.0 with good read and write speed
5|Product is good, the size is very convenient, Would be better if it came with a case. Would recommend it
5|One thing that i like the most about this hard drive is its size. You can comfortably keep it in your packet.
4|I like it. The size, speed & price is good. The included cable size is very small. value for money.
4|Its nice!! But with the small studs for grip it would have been great. Seagate can consider it next versions.
5|Got this product at 3 months EMI for just 200 rs more than the actual price!!! Worth paying every penny!
5|The hard drive is Reasonably priced , and Its a very good product , satisfied , Highly Recommended , A++++
5|Value for money and the best basic external HDD in the market as of now. Go ahead and buy without hesitation!
5|Best external hard disk to buy in market.Average speed on windows 7 is 25 mbps and on windows 8 is 100 mbps
2|Got Disk I/O error in one week. I replaced the HDD and get a new one. It is working fine till now.
5|Very good quality product & nice looking. Performance is very good. Slim & handy. I recommend this to buy.
5|So far so good. Very sleek and handy. Brilliant product. Delivered quickly before schedule. Good work seller
5|Excellent product . Excellent speed. Excellent design. Delivered fast. Extremely durable
4|This hdd have exceptionally well performance and is very light. A great buy!!! With a reasonable price.
5|nice product, I got it the cheapest online. I hope this is same as what Seagate is sold on the retail shops.
5|almost everything I copied (from 5 gb big files to 2-3 gb .. many number of files) finished within 1 minute.
4|Superb performance. Very fast backup with 3.0 usb port. one of the best hard disk. i will recommend this one
5|Very nice product, we also get a backup app along with the hard disk, just 1 click and its done, easy to use
5|Slim, Trim & Cool looking device. It is very useful and need too much less space. It seems like a pen drive.
5|Great product at a great price.. The same model of hard disk is sold at 200/- more on other e-comm webites.
5|There's nothing that can go wrong with seagate. Amazingly slim and looks extremely cool. A bit pricy maybe.
5|Simply loved it. carefully made, sleek classy. Fell in love with it when i opened the box. Happy to have it
5|I got it for 4241 rs.this product worth it. Good speed 32 mbps. Light weight. Very compact.
4|Look wise awesome...build quality is good...just the USB wire is not that worth with respect to quality....
5|Received the item by committed date. Good packing for the harddisk. HDD is working fine without any issues.
5|Its slim and elegant, easily sleeves into a jeans pocket. I have only usb2.0, speed is decent for a 2Tb HDD
4|I wish if this could be connected with my Sony Bravia TV!!! It has NTFS format & Tv supports FAT only.
4|Nice product..transfer rate is also awesome..liked it..thank u Amazone for the low price and fast service..
5|Super sleek and classy look, even the data transfer speed is excellent. Superb delivery by amazon.....
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB is a good product. Good service. I received it i time as specified by Amazon.
4|Sea gate is well known Company, Slim, easy to carry, enough space, not China Made, but it is Singapore made
4|It is nice for people who want a portable hard drive to collect their data. Its small size is a plus point.
4|Its really a good product and very genuine product , its really very slim and handy . product is really wow
4|It is good as per specification. Packing is also good as per picture. I suggest really go for it to others.
4|Am satisfied with seagate
1|Trying to transfer 200gb data.. Taking 2much time.... 4 hours to transfer...useless product from Seagate.
5|Easy to register, easy to use, easy to carry. Just stop giving any second thought to it. It is perfection.
2|USB port is quite loose and plastic quality is quite bad. Damn! could have bought WD for cheaper price :-/
5|Yes, it works fine. But other laptops are supporting this harddisk, my dell laptop is not supporting this.
3|Some of my files are corrupted & some wiped out after few days of backup, hence I can't give above 3 star.
1|Wasn't working as it should have...I was not even able to copy a single file into the HD. Had to return.!!
4|Got quickly delivery and tested files from PC to HD, speed is 23MB/1sec, i am not happy with this speed.
5|jst awesome awesome product....... love its compact and slim design...... and the brand tells the rest....
5|Its best among all 1tb harddisk.Its transfer speed is awesome and build quality is quite good as expected.
5|Very small in size as expected. Then transfer speed also good. Just try it out, you won't regret it later.
5|Nice and compact one to carry your loaded workplace with you if you don't want to get your BP shooting up.
4|Its an amazing product, slim design to fit in the pocket. Delivers great performance while transfer files.
5|Great hard drive and really portable. I got this one for around 1000 bucks cheaper than it was on flipkart
5|Excellent product with sturdy design & Stylish look,working very good, from last 6 months found no issues.
5|Nice product Ordered it for my cousin and he loved it. Very good, What you see is what you get!! PErfect!!
5|Amazing delivery by Amazon.in . using it over for a months time now product is really portable and useful.
4|So far there has been no problem with the device. Its easy to use and much portable than the old drives...
5|Excellent Quality product. Very small in size. Was also able to quickly connect and detect on my SONY led.
5|Nice experience with seagate and AMAZON both :). Hope the services and quality stay same in future also :P
5|Price is lower when compared to other sites .we love shopping in amazon .we are buying more and more. Good
4|The performance of this hard drive is good & portable size easy to fit in pocket but it is made in Chaina.
5|Product is original very good, prompt delivery,COD facility, was also offered if required to pay by card.
4|Very good product and cheaper comparatively. fast transfer rates, pretty design faster delivery
4|it is good product , has value for money, data transfer rate is acceptable when compairing with other HDD
5|Small, sleek and fast. Speed: Copy from Laptop to HDD - 20-30 MBPS and vice versa is 50-60 MBPS
5|Definitely it has met my expectation and the timely delivery of item was just beyond my expectation....!!
5|excellent product which is plug and play I would recommend this to any one who need portable storage
5|Go for this. High writing speed. Wait for some discount to be announced, then just grab it without delay.
3|the product was good. however, the TAT of delivery was double the time it was mentioned on the site.
5|Very fast delivery... Amazing product from amazon... USB powered compact external drive.. Worth buying...
3|Not satisfied the delivery I order this product on 12nov n got on 28nov but i love this product
5|Awesome product !! original and genuine !! Cheapest as compared to all websites. Well done. keep it up !!
4|Hi Everyone ,Please purchase this product in amazon.com ,its really worth & the performance is very good.
3|Good external hard disk normal external hard disk to buy I am buy this hard disk from Amazon this is good
5|Its so handy and its so good to use, write speed is so good. I suggest the device for the cost
1|Very Bad Product Don't Buy it ITS MAXIMUM SPEED IS 40 Kbps ITS WORTH LESS Thank you
5|*Delivered soon *Awesome Packing* Superb Transfer Rate *Very Small* Comfortable to carry.Amazon Rocked?
5|Good and Branded product at such a reasonable price of Rs. 4260/- ; good perfprmence so far. I am happy.
5|Very good product at an affordable price. It was an excellent experience right from order till delivery.
5|Delivery very prompt and efficient. Used the drive once. Nicely functions. This is the first day review.
5|Awesome product.timely delivery. Go purchase it without hesitation. But its not exactly 1 tb its 931 gb.
4|Post sales Support from Seagate could be better especially when synching from apple devices using cloud.
5|i happy with the pricing of the product. the same product at CTC(whole sale market) secandarabad is 4750
4|Guys help me.... I bought this last year may.... But now not been detected by any computer... Help me..
5|Sleek and compact hard drive, much smaller than the other 1TB drives I own. Would highly recommend this!
5|Delivered in good condition. Good read and write speed . Value for money . Easy to carry.
4|recently purchased!..overall good but have heating issues !! warranty period is 21 days less..
5|takes the backup very fast. data transfer took place upto 60mbps. i am happy with this product
4|It is slim and it worked properly. I like this. but i dont know how to partition for windows and ubuntu.
4|Very nice to handle and slim enough to carry in your pocket, but not able to use with samsung 40F5500 TV
5|I am happy. great data transfer speed as well. i would recommend to all users. you will be happy too !!!
1|It's not an original product... The package has different information and the product is different inside the box.... I checked.... The P/N written on the box doesn't match with the P/N on the HDD.... This one is definitely repacked or refurbished hdd....
5|Good and value for money
3|I'm unable to fetch 200 gb of one drive. Trust me it's the best of products worth the cash you pump in
5|Hard disk very slim and it is good to use ... Must buy product and seagate is the best one of hard disk
5|Worth every penny! Best in its range! Amazing on time delivery by Amazon! Packaging top notch as always
4|Nice product ...very sleek ...like the looks ...speed of transfer can be better ...overall good product
5|Very sleek and lightweight! Love the style and the performance is trademark segate so no problem there!
4|Meets the Requirement. Only problem is that there is Password Protection Facility for Opening the Drive
4|Very good product..slim design and easy handling..I got my product before delivery date..thanx Amazon..
5|Excellent for storing your photos / memories at one place and open wherever required. i luv this .
5|The Item is very good. Faster to access content due to USB 3.0. Amazon delivered the item in time.
5|product is very good , price also very comfortable from amazon, fast delivery getting gunuine product
4|I have good experience with this device, it is fast and good option for take backup whatever you want..
5|I have received a very good product from Amazon. Quick and Very Good Service. Keep up this Good Job !!!
4|I have received the HDD in time and the service is good. Waiting for some more to purchase from amazon.
5|Nice and sleek, very good product. It is easy to use and product is same as told on site. Worth buying.
3|This is not my first product from Seagate, but this 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is just Ok for me.
4|its good and so far hasnt broken like my old WD HDD. its amazing sleek too..! i like it. u can o for it
5|Seagate backup plus slim 1tb external hard is awesome very slim and good look.. .thanks amazon.
5|Awesome product purchased at great price. Thanks to Amazon it delivered product before estimated time.
5|Great product and delivery was as usual the fastest one. Product packing was nice and get a good deal.
5|Seagate backup is always excellent, Slim and robust. Amazon did a pretty good job with quick delivery.
5|The color of the product is awsome...faster transfering,design is awsome all most fully worth of money
5|Everything was Just Perfect.. Working Very Well.. Totally Happy and Satisfied with It.. :))
5|Got it @lower price than market rates..awesome product..and a superb on time delivery to AMAZE me ON..
5|This product is good and trust me guys... I got a good one not any fake one .. and it works quit good.
5|Really great... amazon delivered earlier and was packed really good.. Loving it..Way better than my WD
4|Portable and very easy to carry. Data Speed is also good. :) And its design is very simple.
5|Its the best product.external hard disk means Sandisk.i can store too many files,movies,songs,pics etc
4|Almost 6 months before I bought. Working fine without any issues but transfer speed is not convincing.
5|I bought it over a month ago.. The product is working proply and the speed is gud and it is very handy
5|LOVE IT.. really..! nice packing fast delievery. usb3.0 . too good! perfect size and nice brand.
5|Awesome copy speed...with a slim attractive look....data cable is bit short....worth for money guys...
4|So far so gud... nyc n portable.. can be carried in a pocket but only 931 gb when i paid for 1024 gb..
5|The product was as per my expectations. Make and quality are very good. Fast shipping and delivery too
5|really slim, external hdd, excellent product, premium look and much faster read/write speed. i lov it!
3|Great looks..super slim design..but a bit disappointed with the write speed..just got a max of 28 MBps
4|nice as expected in good condition good d good good good good good ok condition go buy enjoy go get it
5|The product is good and the service as well, though it would be a bit cheaper for being more efficient
5|Nice HD sleek & slim and very good looking with metallic finish & small in size fits in pocket easily.
5|Nice products by seagate fast data transfer rate and slim n light weight awesome portable hard drive
5|i used this product for the last six months i am very much satisfied eith this product, a great score
4|I loved this product. On time delivery. Really slim and light product. Allows easy transfer of files.
4|My sole purpose was to store data comfortably and the job is well done. The device is want it states.
4|Its a good product. Portable and stylish size .good functioning.delivery was timed. Satisfactory ....
5|Delivered as specs and product working as expected. Please check pinna dot in for additional discount
5|Its just awesomee..and Warranty is perfect....Seagate...superb product..and its look is soo sexy...:)
5|Very gud product... Classic speed and has nce options for backup in seagte software... M lovin it :-)
5|I am delighted with the prompt delivery of a good product in excellent condition at reasonable price.
5|good one with reasonable price. slim and sleek easy to carry. thanks to amazon i got it in deals.. :D
4|Great product with good speed. Just wish it had some cover to protect it in case of accidental falls.
3|When the post man brought that it was yet to fall there was no protection just covered with paper box
4|As of now I don't see any problems with it. It is my first HDD. The model is sleek and looks elegant.
5|The product is working excellent. And Amazon s service is mind blowing. I am fully satisfied. . . . .
4|This is a genuine seagate product and have used this for 3 months from now and this is working fine.
4|Really fast delivered, delivered in 2 days the product is fantastic with copying speed is also great
5|It's a very good device,I have had others like dell and Toshiba but Seagate is like best among them.
2|Pros: 1. Descent Data Transfer Speed (75 MBPS Write) Cons: No Warrenty in India
4|Wont give 5 star as got the product late after a week. Taking about the product seagate rockss.
5|I compared the price with some another sites and found a lower price here. Happy with the deal.
5|Now I am able to store my data in Tb seagate hard drive. But it won't be enough for me. ?????
5|Very handy. Premium finish. Amazing speed. Quick delivery. Very good Seagate and cloudtail @ Amazon.
5|got hanged by default , getting detected by system but not showing data kindly give me solution
5|Product is working really very nice. Speed is above par. Higher price has given me a better product.
4|Nice selection. Solves our purpose.Every desk top or lap top users should own this for safe back up.
5|Very small, pocket like hard drive...i love to have it . i got it at 5716 INR in diwali bumper.
4|I got it 5 days before, for one of my friend. As he said it is as he expected. No complain till now.
4|Good transfer speed Usb 2 is 35-75mbps, n its very light, lighter n slimer than Wd Mypassport Ultra.
4|worth buying.small size n light i.e. very easilly portable. Avarage writing speed in 3.0 is 70Mbps.
5|Very Nice Product at an Amazing Price. Really Should appreciate The Quality and speed of the product
5|seal pack hard disk arrived on time as mentioned. It good use this one and its different from other.
5|Good product from seagate. Easy to use and handle. Can be kept in a jeans pocket. Good to go for it.
5|Sseagate backup plus at a very good price and the packaging was very neat. delivery was too on time.
4|its useful as well as smart to hold that's I like it and buy this for me thanks Seagate company
1|It is because when I ordered the item again twice, my purchase was rejected by i don't know why ????
5|great service by amazon and a wonderful harddrive... a must buy if u r plannin to buy 1 for urself..
4|Good source for backup.
2|Have to format for using from Mac to Windows cannot b transfer ur data from Mac to Windows or vise versa I had specially bought for that but it dosent work so if ur buying for transfer ur files from Mac to Windows than its not right product...
5|As described the product meets d expectations, Fast Shipping is d added advantage than other sites.
1|This is a duplicate product.Do n't bye.Now a days amazon have no oath to deliver a orginal product.
5|Very nice product! Got it before time. Since its a HDD, packaging could have been better.
5|very good hard disk its price is good its handy its average speed in my pc is 30mbps
5|Worked perfectly as my previous time machine disk went a bit crazy. Arrived two days early as well!
4|Nice and yet a very slim external hard drive from Segate. Moreover, Got very good deal from Amazon.
4|Its working fine. All good. Was delivered on time. And it was cheapest here. Amazon dilevery rocks.
4|good, compact and handy.. Need password protected hard drive... that is my next requirement...
5|really good product.you easily carry in pocket.has good speed for copy/paste . value for money
4|Lowest price, Good product, delivary too long, but after all better deal than Flipkart or Snapdeal.
5|Very Slim and powerfull Hard drive. Thanxs tO Amazon for wonderfull delivery and and amazing offers
5|Excellent product, good speed less noise. Delivered within two days, so I have no complains so far.
4|very Nice Best of product and cost is low is out market ,with in 2 to 3 days received booking order
4|The main reason is that it is slim one and weight is also lesser.So it is very much easy to handle.
5|it is a very good for me also others.The response is very fast. We can store data as backup. Thanks
5|Satisfied with the product and its delivery by amazon. Performance of the hdd is also good so far.
5|awesome product... sleek and simple ! Its been 1 year of usage, and this thing is going great
5|Great product, got at a large discount coupled with fast delivery. Amazing experience with Amazon.
5|HDD is really very slim & smaller than even my WD passport, speeds so far r as expected in usb 2.0
5|excellent product.was bit reluctant whether it would work with my macbook,but it works, grt speed.
5|Superb finish and really comport fit in any pocket. Really fast in access. Its the best!
5|Excellent product, Highly recommended to all who care to backup the data effectively and securely.
4|Great read and write speed Small size -can fit in ur pocket doesnt have thunderbolt port
5|Great External drive, but Amazon need to improve delivery timing. Flipkart takes the cake in that.
4|A very good product. Its pretty fast and easy to use and is really slim as well. A goo buy indeed.
5|I got it for rs 3600 which is much less than market price. received in good packing. support usb 3
5|Great device it slim and very easy to carry than any other hdd ...but on useing it is over heating
4|It is working well. However, I doubt whether it is as good as the earlier expandable disc or not.
4|Excellent hard drive. Plus, Amazon's really fast delivery during a huge dale made it even better.
4|The product is too good, quality and services are both good I like Segate to use.
5|my first external hard disk was seagate which I bought in 2008 and since then I am fan of seagate
5|Awesome hdd.. look wise beautiful.. It's fast.. I've used it for few weeks ... Satisfied ...
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External is ultimate fast and durable product worth buying.
5|Very small compact and light. Works well and well finished. No issues in my item. Brought in sale
4|Works great so far as I bought it recently(a month ago). Haven't come across any issues.Good buy.
5|Nice product at a very affordable price. Authentic one which I could register on Seagate website.
5|Very Excellent Product from Seagate. and also good service from amazon. I love it
5|Very light weight . very convenient. But requires delicate handling. Otherwise very satisfactory.
4|very fast when tranferring data from usb 2.0 and design,size of the HDD is very small than others
5|its so light and slim that fits in pocket of jeans. Permanent customer of Amazon its brilliant,
5|Got it for 3.8k very affordable for a 1TB USB 3.0 drive from a reputed brand ..highly recommended
5|Very portable, size is akin to a mobile phone and good colour option (Red). Good value for money.
3|it is disappointing to note that it does not seem to be compatible with the early version of OS such as window 2000. Xp Sp-2, I could not back up my very old computer where my old data are very precious. otherwise it is working good.
1|Very poor performance.
5|Brand new nice product
5|Beautiful and compact.
4|Good stuff at a very competitive price! You may want to partition the hard drive basis your need
4|Its a very nice product by segate. Easy to carry in pocket also... very lightweight and compact.
5|it is awesome... but after few days i got 1000 rupees off on same product from shopclues...
4|quality product...worth to buy... But Need To Be secured...need a Seagate pass lock..
5|Slim And Portable Best for traveling and high speed usb 3.0 Plus Attractive color
5|Am using it for the past 30 days. Its very compact and easy to carry. Speed is decent. Good buy!
5|There are plenty of reviews specifying the read and write speeds over USB 2.0 & 3.0 so no need for me to mention that again (Refer to the picture). Just a few pointers that I feel can help potential buyers. - This hard drive is the best out there in every sense (looks, performance etc.) except for the ruggedness. I will prefer Transcend or Silicon Power (SP) brand for that. Of course if it’s rugged then it will lose its sleek look. But personally for me this sleek aspect does not matter much as it is not a smartphone that I have to carry in my pockets. However I fear if this drive falls from my hand then it will be damaged. So only NON RUGGEDNESS is a con for me. BTW the metal finish looks excellent (Refer to the pictures). - I wanted Seagate BUP slim 2TB version in red color. After monitoring prices here for a few weeks I decided to go with eB*y. Got the drive there for 6699/-. At the time of writing this review it is still showing 7475/- on Amazon. But if you get similar prices then I will recommend Amazon as it is more trustworthy and easier returns. - This hard drive comes in NTFS file system format by default. The main advantage of NTFS over FAT32 is that you can store single files above 4gb and also offers better security. For more details watch this YouTube video (https://youtu.be/S5uxpHszU1E). - First thing on receiving the hard drive was to register it on ‘www.seagate.com’. Scroll down and click on REGISTER NOW. You have to enter a few of your personal details and the serial number of the drive which you can find at the back starting with S/N: - To check the warranty of your drive go to ‘www.seagate.com’ and click the following ‘Support>Warranty and returns’. A new page opens, click on ‘check my warranty’. A new page further opens, click on ‘is my drive under warranty’. On doing this step 1 expands, click on ‘check to see if your drive is under warranty”. Enter the Serial number and part number (Both mentioned on back of the drive) and submit….viola, your warranty is displayed!! - Though this drive comes with 18 inch cable as compared to 12 inch of other brands but it is still short for me as I use it with desktop or TV. So I found a nice 1Meter USB 3.0 cable here on amazon (http://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B00PZUBV6W?psc=1&redirect=true&ref_=oh_aui_detailpage_o00_s01). Click on the link to read my full review on that product. Or simply type in the search on Amazon ‘USB 3.0 to micro B cable’ for other cables. - There is a thin slit at the top which hides the LED light that glows when the drive is powered on. VERDICT – The best out there. Go for it but be careful while handling. I will recommend a protective case for it though am yet to buy one myself.
5|The HDD is remarkably slim, smooth and silent without any noticeable whirring sound and is thinner than the previous versions of Backup plus HDDs. But it is more of plastic and looks easily breakable. There is a bundle of softwares "Seagate Dashboard Agent, Seagate Tools and Seagate Release.exe" provided in the HDD. This Software makes Seagate Product Registration easy. The details of Product Registration will be stored in the HDD automatically. Besides, there is Seagate Tools software and also 5GB cloud storage facility is also available. This cloud storage facility is free of charges. The writing speed when tested with 10GB Movie file reached to 102 mbps on a HP laptop and windows 8.1 platform, which is reasonable. The HDD works so silently that you have look at the streak of light on the HDD to know if it is active or not. Right now, I am using 1 TB Back up Plus (a replacement) and a 2TB WD My Passport. Besides I have 500 GB 3.5" Seagate Free Agent. The important point that makes Seagate Technology, stand apart from the rest, is their service. I give here below my experience with Seagate HDD. I purchased a 1 TB Seagate Free Agent Go Flex during April,2011 with 3 years warranty. The HDD had stopped functioning when the warranty was to expire within the next 3 months. M/S Accel Frontline, Hyderabad, the warranty service provider of Seagate HDDs, refused to entertain my warranty claim, saying that the particulars this HDD were available not in their data base. The Tax Invoice did not contain the details of the item like S/N or P/N. Then I contacted the Asian office of Seagate, located in Hong Kong, who advised me to send a few photographs of the HDD immediately. Within a few minutes after I have sent the Photographs through email, I received a call from the Head Office of M/S Accel Frontline requesting me to collect a new HDD in place of the problematic one from their Secunderabad branch office. A new Seagate Backup plus 1TB was handed over to me after a week in place of Seagate Freeagent GoFlex HDD.. The cost of the replacement for the manufacturer, may be negligible , but for a small consumer like me, the gesture is overwhelming. I can not imagine such a service with any other manufacturer. This is the reason I preferred Seagate HDD.
4|I bought this at 6,949 off Amazon even though there were cheaper sellers at INR 6,500 change on Shop Clues. Why? Because I am traveling overseas on the 20th & cannot afford to wait till the 15th for delivery. Neither do I want to carry my bulky 4TB Expansion around either. Now, I am not a huge fan of Hard Drives. I've lost 2 due to power issues - a 500GB iomega & 1TB Buffalo But the 2TB Seagate is the cheapest & fastest per TB among all external portable drives. Well, technically my 1TB Buffalo was cheaper. I bought it at INR 3,400 INR Converted from overseas in 2011 at a time when an equivalent 1TB was around INR 8,000 in India. I decided to take my chances with the Backup Plus Slim 2TB I was amazed at the small size of the packaging. I was completely blown away by the Actual size of the Hard Drive. It is SO SLIM & SMALL And Packs a huge punch at 2TB. The Read & Write Speeds are the Fastest among all Hard Drives on USB 3.0 I love it in black. Nice and Discreet I wasn't too sure about the Red one because it looked different in different photos. I Bought a Saco Case for the Backup Plus Slim (both arrived on the same day. I was expecting the Saco on the 13th actually) I am not too happy with the Saco. Its too big & should not be counted on for the entire life of the Hard Drive. Though it is priced at 200, it immediately feels cheap & flimsy. The Backup Plus Slim 2TB is a good buy And the Best Hard Drive according to CNet, PC Mag & me. Save yourselves some money & buy one if you're overseas :)
4|About Amazon (for 2nd purchase of HDD) : PROS- # Appreciate quick delivery (3rd day as promised) by Amazon. # This is my 2nd HDD as I had return one before due to confusion in Part number mentioned on box and actual HDD (will explain you below). # The refund by Amazon was very quick and I appreciate Amazon for their quick response without any hesitation. Amount was refunded in my account on the 3rd day of returning the Old HDD (which I ordered 1st time...a month before in Jan'15). This is one of the reason I dare to order 2nd HDD again from Amazon. # Amazon Customer care are very assistive. CONS- # Packaging Quality has to be improved as I found the HDD box was wrapped in simple hard board without any air cushions. 1 rating less only for this (or else it stands for 5 stars) About Product:- PROS: # A nice very light weight HDD i ever purchased (Blue Color). # Used hardly yet, but found no heating after 45min of use. So I uess Seagate keeps the quality standard. # Make no noise and silent compare to one I have old 500GB of HDD that I bought 4 yrs before and is working fantastic. CONS: # This is my 2nd HDD I ordered from Amazon within difference of a month. Blame to the confusion/difference of Part number printed on the HDD box and on actual HDD (though serial number was same). I returned it thinking this could be some problem and I may get into trouble in case of warranty (though Seagate website was showing the warranty of 3yrs based on part and serial number as on box) # Found the same for second ordered HDD also (Though serial number of HDD is same, Part number mentioned on the Box and Actual HDD was different). # I called Seagate to know this and they confirmed that they consider the warranty based on serial number only and I need not to worry about part number. # Hats Off to Seagate Customer care, that they even helped me to recover 3 months of my warranty period as the product was shipped to Distributor 3 months ago and I got it now in Feb'15. Final Verdict : # Appreciate Seagate's and Amazon's service quality. # For Product, as of now looks cool without any issues, will repost in case of any issues that can help you.
5|I think over all its a good Drive .Just got days back seems excellent .Not detected by HDD Sentinel or HDD life but it was detected by HDD tune pro.I think its not hardware encrypted and the USB is not attached directly to the hardisk controller circuitry .or may be.But better than WD drive as my months of hardwork goes in vain when just after 1 year WD gone bad i had to regenerate the bad sectors and format.But it was WD drive so it can't be recovered as its hardware encrypted so what the use .Hence I decided never to purchase any WD drive .All hard work goes in vain.I would suggest keep atlese one copy of important data that is irreplaceple in a DVD drive or other drive or pc and always keep a MFT dump using Wiztree so that incase you hardisk don't show you can keep track of what files it was there.Don't ever trust a hardrice it sooner or later will fail .Always keep multiple copies of important data in separate disk .And don't shake the disk while in use .Eject carefully .Use HDD regenerator to regenerate bad sectors .And perform short and long test of SMART.And keep disk in safe place.Use the disk often or it magnetic property will be bad which affects it sectors..
4|Pros: A. Good read and write speed (see details below) - When measured with the Linux benchmark tool : http://i.imgur.com/RY2fhpk.png - When tried to copy a 23 GB game folder - At the beginning : http://i.imgur.com/P2UutGA.png - Half way: http://i.imgur.com/wMyiyui.png - And, near the end: http://i.imgur.com/izzLOul.png B. Slim size C. Supports USB 3 (though, USB 2 was never in my criteria) D. Compatible with Linux (Ubuntu) OS. Though, front end software only available for Windows but not for Linux. Cons: A. Not an excellent read and write speed - Let me explain: various site including CNET [1] says their benchmark tool thinks this hard disk supports upto 119 MB/s write speed! I don't think that is true. [1] http://www.cnet.com/products/seagate-backup-plus-slim/2/ B. No inbuilt encryption system -There are some vendors who offer encryption option almost at the same price. This would be a 'nice to have' option that I really miss here. C. It's not that sturdy (but not brittle though) when you compare it with some other product that claims to have military grade protection.
5|Very good ,easy to fit, compact size like easy to fit in your pocket,read write speed also good
5|Very good product..specially the slim design. It can process data faster than others. Go for it
4|This product is performing very well & it is very compact. I will give 4 star for this product.
5|Amazing....click BUY nowwww!!! Aw sum job amazon fast delivery good price love ya loads!!!
1|I was ordered 2 TB HDD but when i opened the packet, I found that it was 1 TB on place of 2 TB.
5|Worth to buy it....one can trust seagate for such a good service and good transfer speed too...
5|Got Genuine Product at very low price compared to market price, would suggest to go with it....
5|Got this one a month back. Works amazing. Easy to use. Finely built. Looks premium. Go for it.!
3|Useful but should come with free data recovery software as by mistake I lost data while copying
1|The cord from sea gate to pc was broken. And because I had seen it late I had to just bear it.
4|slim, slimmer then my last HD, I buy 4 drives a year till now fingers crossed alls been well
4|Good product in this price range. Compact and slim. Also speed is good 30-35 MB/s with usb 2.0
5|100% satisfaction till date. Nice looks + Nice Data Transfer Speed + 2.5 Inch is a great size.
5|This is my second Seagate HDD, this one is very small in size. Its even smaller then a wallet.
4|On time delivery, Product working satisfactorily. Request ensure warranty support. THANKS
5|fast transfer speeds without any issue, size is small like a mobile that fits in pocket easily
5|I have purchased the quality product for Amazon at comparable lowest price & it working nicely
4|Worth the price. Good for backup. The red is not as attractive as shown in the picture though.
5|Very good product. I only wish they had given a pouch to carry even by charging a little more.
5|Awesome product. Sleek and compact design and good finish. And good transfer speed via usb 3.0
5|Excellent product and fast dispatch. Highly recommended for those who are looking for back up.
4|The product is working fine. However max speed I could get is only about 60 Mbps with USB 3.0
5|i am happy with the 01 TB HDD to store my data & the small size / weight what Seagate offering
5|recommended , go for it.no need to look other manufacture.nice experience . .. . . . . . . .
4|speed in about 55-60mbps in usb3.0(multiple files)...more than 60 mbps for large single file
5|Its excellent product. Perfect for my day to day activities. Super fast copying to n from pc.
3|Good. But there is no guidelines to play with software in term of seheduling auto backup etc.
5|The Hard disc is just awesome, seemless speed and the cheapest deal on amazon. You guys rock.
5|Very good product. Very slim and look very elegant. Super fast. I m very happy and satisfied.
5|Segate back up plus is very light and slim. nice products. Amazon delivery very quickly.
4|it was nice and very fast. At times the mac took long time to recognise it (show on desktop).
5|super product it really amazing i like it well Thanks for amazon for this product
5|It is really slim and less weight. Easy to carry. I am more than satisfied with this product.
5|Very nice product. It can be purchased without searching for any other product in the market.
5|Its very slim and very nice...and read and write speed is awesome specially with USB 3.0.....
4|I am quite happy with the purchase. It is working very well with a good support from Seagate.
5|This is my very first External hard Drive & I went with Seagate as they seem to have been around for a long time and most people have been able to safely store their data for a long time on Seagate drives. Weight/Size: The 2TB drive is very light weight & slim. Transfer Speed: I am happy with the transfer speed. Security: I was worried about not having any security but I encrypted it using BitLocker as it is available to me at work. You may need to use another utility for security if you don't have BitLocker. Price: Incredible price from Amazon at 6,800 Finance: Converted to EMI while buying, makes it easy on the pocket Shipping: Paid 49 and received it next day. I hate waiting after placing an order. Case: Need to buy a Case Logic separately to keep it safe Warranty: I registered on the Seagate website & they confirmed 3 year warranty. They are also very helpful on Facebook. Sync: Seagate Desktop Software is free and backs up everything quickly
1|amazon.in service the good but the blue dart service very poor. i several time contact blue dart bally (west bengal) office but not response and return my product. i could not except that type of service from blue dart
5|I recently bought this piece, this one is grt. The size is so compact, you can keep it in your shirt pocket. The download and access speed is excellent. People looking to buy a Harddisk, this is the right one to buy.
5|Very nice product and decent delivery by amazon..delivery can get a bit better..still 5 on 5
5|Most trendy product. Can carrry in a pocket. Very useful. Must have for carrying large data.
4|Slim as the name suggests. Good speed. Awesome delivery on less than a day from Amazon.
4|good so far, may provide a free pouch or case to carry but the connecting cable is too short
4|its a good product i love it very much.its very thin and slim.you can carry while travelling
5|excellent product. compact . transfer speed is not too good but still it is value for money.
4|Good ...no problem till now..timely delivery...least price compared to all other online shop
5|Product is far more better than expected. I loved the amazon service and the product quality
5|Good Product, Good Timely delivery as promised, within 2 days. Am continued to be impressed.
4|Sleek and Sylish, Excellent metallic body, Very Handy, Blazing speed 4/5
5|Nice product ..... Small in size.... Beautiful.. Build quality is good
5|5 Stars to Seagate-- Good Package Good Service Good Product - Very Slim
5|Nice product Ordered it and we loved it. Very good, What you see is what you get!! PErfect!!
5|Nice product, with this price range and size of hard disk , I will recommend it to everyone.
5|It is very slim. Nd easy to carry. I like this product very much. Nd packaging was very gud.
5|It is awsome. even if i use it for a day it wont get heat . but speed is ok.
3|HDD size is good It was used at a room-temperature of 32C and found it to be a tad hot
4|So far so good! Might have to check back in a couple of years to see if it's still kicking!
4|Just got 3 days after the placing the order. Its very compact in my hand also in my pocket.
5|Best hard disk .? bythe way I anm going to buy an internal hard disk for my laptop also.?
5|Loved it. Good speed at 30Mbps. The auto backup functionality is very good, but i dont use.
5|Good product @ cheapest price amongst all major online shopping sites....... Thank you :)))
5|Received the product before delivery date !!!!. Good service. Presently no problems. Thanks
4|nice compact product ...very handy and also fast delivery........liked amazon.in's delivery
4|A very nice hard disk at a vey good price. Thanks Amazon. Delivery was well within the time
5|Compact packing. Seagate has reduced the dimension of the HDD. A good one as expected.
4|Very gud product.. On time delivery... Lets see in long term how reliable it turns out.....
5|Superb Works smoothly and very fast. No sound heard when disk is running. GO ONLY FOR THIS.
4|Unbelievable timely delivery. The product is good a must to have one backup your computer.
5|It's good hard disk. It's speed is great. value for money.size is also slim..looking good..
5|I am happy with the design, manufacture and working of the hard disk! Quite slim and handy!
5|This harddrive is awesome, didn't expect to give high speeds on 2.0 to 3.0 usb connections.
5|Good product. Nice packing. Speed is around 60MB/s. Thin and stylish. Overall good product.
5|Awesome Deal . I got this on a lightning deal of Amazon , which was the lowest price ever !
4|Product is good but it has been priced little high and delivery of the product is very good
4|Product is good but it has been priced little high and delivery of the product is very good
4|Very portable, very slim, fast reading and writing speed are on an average od of 30 Mbps.
1|Online claud space registration was not get done with in 14 days because of time lag issue.
5|Great Product...!!! Really satisfied and useful who wants to store the long data.....!!!!!
5|A very good product and at very reasonable price. Amazon delivery was just fantastic.
1|I am not able to transfer movies from the C Drive of my laptop to HD. Order with caution.
1|It was defective peace.........I lost my saved data...........very disappointing..........
5|Very Wroth Hard Disk 1 Tb .And Packing is Good Need To Improve More For Packing ..........
5|Awesome product. Sleek, stylish and fast. Metal look. I love it. Good performance as well.
4|Delivered in excellent condition and work well, fast and look very compact like cell phone
5|Delivered in time. Thanks to Amazon. It's Slim and compaq. Data transfer also faster.
3|Looks beautiful, is slim and serves the purpose. Amazon as always is prompt with delivery.
5|Very nice and got it at a very competitive price. All my data is backed up to the drive...
5|Product delivered in 2 days and working perfectly fine! Lucky to get it cheap in the deal.
5|Very good product, very much satisfied with product performance, prompt supply by Amazon.
5|excellence work and excellence followup with us and good co-operate and very fast process.
5|Nice product from Seagate..Good transfer speed, around 70-90 Mbps. Very slim...looks sexy.
5|It is really nice but in starting it gave me few difficulties bt now it is working great.
4|Received product was genuine and I registered successfully my product on Seagate website.
5|Value of money,with a great speed of data transfer. Small and smart design. Just love it.
5|As usual Seagate is good. This is my 5th seagate HDD. All are give good performance.
5|Amazing. Superb. Segate back plus slim 1 tb hdd super fast. Super packing. Thanks amazon.
5|Its been a month I havent faced any problem...small and handy...overall its good product.
5|Excellent HardDisk....Price is excellent....Happy to have it...thanks AMAZON and Seagate.
4|Excellent Product, slick and slim, Less heat generation, Overall satisfied
5|Fantastic from Amazon once again.. Reached like a rocket.. Good product & performing well
5|Excellent product , after a years use. Also very sturdy considering very ruff use of mine
1|I have received Toshiba hard disk instead of Seagate backup portable HD , poor experience
5|Awsome Product .. super fast delivery and very good service 5/5 Totally satisfied :)
5|Slim and durable. I was careless and even dropped it once from table. Still working fine.
5|This hard disk which i use for storing hindustani classical music is very good and handy.
5|very stylish drive i bought it @3899 value for money. data rate is a bit slower
5|Good Product, Good Packaging by courier, Late delivery but happy to have it in good price
5|Amazing looks, very compact in size and works very good. Buy without any hesitation.
5|Excellent product. No wonder Seagate has lasted so long in this field. Keep it up !!!!!
5|excellent product by seagate . perfect slim and compact look , loved it so much . . . . .
1|spoilt after 10 days
5|Looking & great size
4|It is nice till now.
5|I am happy with the product works well...And fast delivery from amazon..thanks to amazon
5|As fast as a USB sandisk ultra 16gb. Same speed and stable transfer even after 70% full.
1|Not working after 5 months..Format disk error .. and i lost all my datas..Dont buy here!
4|Hard disk is literally small than my palm and very thin !! Writing speed around 27mb/sec
5|good product, works fine. the packaging was a little excessive but that's not a problem.
4|It's a good buy- compatible with both windows and mac. Extremely easy to set up and use!
5|Good quality stuff , but I don't get 200gb cloud storage for free only 10 Gb is avilable
5|Nice product, got for very low price with leather pouch. But pouch quality is poor.
5|best hard drive in the market value for money amazon delivery great kudos
4|light weight and attractive....I got 105 cash back by using the card ofxxxxx Bank card
5|Its sooooo nice.... in color... buy it dont think twice..buy it from good seller.... :)
5|The product is great.. Performance wise and slim..and delivery by Amazon was fast..happy
5|One of the best product in external hard disk...nice transfer speed and good performance
5|Nice one speed is great and genuine piece.soo guys shop from amazon without any doubt ?
5|Osm hard disk look nice in hand metallic casting up side.....!!! Speed is also good
4|i have purchased this one through Amazon... The delivery was good... Product is good..
5|Trust me guys u can carry on ur pocket, just like ur mobile. Copy speed 20-25 Mb/s.
4|The product is quite nice in looks but i am bit disappointed by the data transfer speeds
5|The product is really nice mainly because of its compact look. Amazon and Seagate rocks.
3|Up to my expectations, timely delivery and genuine product... got lowest price on Amazon
5|Product received in good condition and working fine. Purchased with very regional price.
4|I have been using ED from Seagate from last 3 years. Happy with the latest product also.
5|It's really slim.. :) I've not used it very less but all my expectations are met so far.
4|Nice product. Speed depends on the file type. for movies writing speed is 15 mbps.
5|Very good Product. I am using it past 06 month. Small in size and weight is very less.
5|Ain't tat long but still working damn gud. Very small.. Gud lok... Highly Recommend....
5|Excellent product easily data transfer to my Mac just follow the steps given in Google.
5|Awesome external hard disk. Best value for money. Very slim and 931 GB space available.
3|The transfer speed is not as expected. Sometimes it takes a lot of time for the backup.
4|Product is very good but I am unable to access One Drive Storage even I register on it.
5|Good piece. Small but cute. Works on my TV as well as laptop. Go for it!
3|Only the front side is blue, the black side is black. It doesnt look nice as I thought.
5|A worth buy !! Light weight, slim, efficient and worthy !! Just Plug and Play
4|Slim and perfect....gives a luxury look... data transfer at good rate. No problems
4|transfer speed is not as good as i have heard with USB 2.0...but overall its a good buy
5|I will strongly recommend this product. I bought it from Staples and it is 100% genuine
5|Nice product. Excellent Amazon delivery. Stylish in looks and very good in performance.
4|A good value for money product . Light weight ,elegant design,good data transfer rate .
5|very slim and looking good in shape easy to handle .It is very useful item for me......
5|...mind=blown package came connected transferred data saved space gg hard disk too fast
4|It is value for money product. There is no doubt Seagate is world's # 1 company in HDD.
3|data transfer speed is very less compare to WD harddrive, it gives avg speed of 12Mbps.
4|very useful and slim. thank u amazon for providing this device on such a low price.....
5|Good Product !!!!!!- People who have intent to purchase can purchase :) . . . . . . . .
4|The Product Looks as well as Works Great ! ! ! Should definitely go for it . . . .
5|I bought this HDD 3 months back. Amazon service was amazing. I faced an issue few weeks back when i gave it to one of my friend to copy some data and after that when i connected it to my laptop i was not able to see anything/any data. I called Seagate Customer care 2 times and they mentioned some steps to correct it but it didn't work. I was planning to give it to some service center but i called Seagate once more and this time i got the right person. He took my machine on remote, checked for HDD issue, executed some commands and it started working. My problem was solved and i am using it again happily. Note: 1- Register the product ASAP. 2- Make sure the power supply is not interruppted while copying data to/from the HDD. 3- Seagate Customer Care Technical support is the best option before going anywhere else. 4- Handle with care.
5|So, here we have a 2 TB hard disk, that performs like a Maseratti, looks like a Alfa Romeo, and of the size of a Tata Nano. Oh, did i mention the 3 year warranty? After being through the now cliched confusion between Seagate and WD, i finally took the leap for this and oh boy, am i glad or what! :) This is a well built 2 Tb hard disk that has amazing USB V3 speed and above average V2 speed. Look no further if you need a Ext hard disk that perform good, look good, and feels good in your hand. Ok, so nothing's perfect! If you keep a gun against my temple and ask me to point out a couple of negatives, umm lets see, Maybe vibrates while being used (Which all hard disks, especially external ones, does) and maybe the chord can be 1 cm longer? (Wtf!!! This is the best 2 Tb out there. Go ahead, shoot me now!)
5|Though the product is good and working perfectly, I would suggest you guys go with WD.
5|Bought this on lightening deal at Rs. 3950. And i m fully satisfied with this product.
4|It is really good and genuine, also verified with seagate customer care for warrenty..
5|Slim and sleek design, write speed is bit slow compared to other brands (for USB 3.0).
5|Excellent - very less vibrations. Compared to WD - seagate is good - worth the price.
5|Value for money product. very good product. Seller is good. Received delivery in time.
4|Good product. Nice for backing up your data. Also available at cheap prices on amazon
5|i had no idea how small this HD would be(Very Handy), its transfer speed is real good.
5|Good One. One place sleek gadget which is very much useful for today's data storage..
5|Awesome device fast data transfer... slim n portable to carry ...... worth every penny
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External, working best and as per my expectation
5|So compact. Only drawback is that its not password protected. Nearly 1.8 TB available.
5|A great product. I just bought it 2 days back, and till now its at its top-notch level
5|its really very nice and speed also good, cool... u can choose this without any doubts
5|Awesome....very worthy product in this price Thanks amazon for amazing deal...:-)
5|Its very fast and slim and fits into your pocket. great product by seagate.
5|good performance, good price, great product, gives a premium feel, solid built quality
5|My expectation about quality has been met. Am really happy with the product's quality.
4|but you get a -70 or so GBs less.. that was like loosing so may gb hence the rating :)
3|That,s good product
4|up to 20 mbps transfer rate.looks nice . light weight. good for below 4000 bucks
5|http://www.amazon.in/gp/product/B00GASLJK6?redirect=true&ref_=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_0
5|one of the finest purchase from amazon....quick delivery..quality product...go for it
5|Good Product to Buy Using since 1 Year+ supporting well with My Samsung Smart TV
5|very nice and good .. compact.. copying is faster than teh usual hard disc.
5|Fabulous size, delivered before time and works as expected. Totally recommended . . .
5|No problem as of Now, It is beautiful little thing Fast as a bullet, 5 stars from me.
4|Good sleek design and fast storage. The backup software is not too easy to work with.
5|Does what it is meant to be, with a great speed ! I would recommend this to you.
5|Wonderful drive. Looks good. Functions well. No issues at all after 2 weeks of usage.
5|The product is really good and Data transfer rate is more faster than older versions.
4|Very happy with my 1TB HD. Now I can carry my favourite TV series and movies with me.
5|great product from seagate justifies it spremier position in the data storage segment
5|Great product. So compact and fast. 80mbps in usb3. Super fast delivery by cloudtail.
5|excellent product. worth purchasing and very slim. big blast in small package!!!!!!!!
5|delivary was 1 day late but the product is awesome. very slim and good in performance
5|The product was as described and delivered very quickly. I am happy with my purchase.
5|Extremely sleek and handy. Works perfectly on my Macbook Pro as a time machine drive.
5|It is extremely compact, efficiently does what is claimed and is beautifully crafted.
5|Slim, Fast. But when you use it for a long time, the hard drive is getting more heat.
5|Very slim and fits in our pocket. Data transfer rate is high and true value of money!
5|this product very fast data transfer & very slim nice product... I extremely like it.
5|I HAVE PURCHED 4 NOS. OF THIS HARD DRIVE FOR ME AND MY FRIENDS,IT IS EXELLENT PRODUCT
3|nice pick usb 3 with i7 4gb ram giving max speed of 35mbps.. bit slow.
4|Light and portable. It feels almost like a power bank. Its user capacity is 1.81 TB.
5|Its very cool and slim..go for it..the color is also very good for girls..I love it.
5|Nice to have it... It's a great movement to digital world after having these gadgets
5|working perfectly from last 1 and half year. Very light weight and fast enough.
4|such a tiny little HD. look sheek and fits my need! so fast and computer compatible!
4|Superb delivery...3 days Product is new manufactured and awesum.. with warranty
2|How to repair the device. I stored lot of data. But all of sudden its stop working.
5|Got within time and very nice product.. i always prefer seagate for memory devices..
5|Nice design, small and light. easy handle, quick recognize device working perfectly.
5|Best price and get 3 year Seagate warranty U can check Seagate warranty support
5|Great product, high speed data transfer and many more. Just got what i was expected.
5|Super fast delivery by amazon and the product is awesome. Compact, stylish and fast.
4|Brand Speaks... Slim Portable drive.. Easy to carry.. Working fine...
5|Slim as every...doesn't generate a lot of heat. works @ 80 mbps on a USB 3.0 device.
5|The product is slim and very gud, u can go for it. Service and packaging is also gud
5|Awesome Seagate..Little heated when transferred data is more..Getting speed 25 MB/s.
4|Simple and ready to use portable HDD. I found it really simple and straight forward.
5|Fantastic product at such a rate. I love to own it. Really a full five star product.
5|Its amazing.. Its very light weight and value for money... Provides good speed also
4|The Product is really good. However it doesn't come with a software to protect data!
4|Nice.... Nicely packed and sent as original packing......! product is also goood....
5|Product was Good.. .... .. ... ... .. .. ... .. .... ... ... ... .... . ... .... ...
4|seagate backup plus slim 1TB was really helpful, i suited my purpose . . . . . . . .
5|My new hdd. . it was a nice experience. . . i have just copied 160Gb in 35 mts. .
5|Very Nice and very useful product when compare with other products. Simply super !!
5|Till date no problem. Max 42mbps speed till date. Handy. Small size. Good for a buy
4|Works as quoted. Nice and slim one. Delivered as promised. Overall nice experience.
5|Awesome & quite handy. It has 1.81TB memory. You can buy it without any hesitation.
1|Dont Buy th8s product..mine is stopped working less than a month sold by cloudtail.
5|Completely satisfied.. The outer finish is attractive and till date it works fine..
5|Very nice and comfortable to use and nice transfer speeds. I actually got 3 of them
4|Good product slim & faster good performance but packing not Up to mark .......
3|Had to replace after 1st use as there was some problem with the external hard disk.
4|This product is very useful and it is very small even it can fit in my pant pocket.
5|nice product. only problem is when it is taking backup it is taking more ram space.
5|It is Amazing like Amazon.com, i wish it could be wrapped up properly in a Cover :)
4|Product : 5 / 5 Delivery : 1 / 5 Product Range : 4 / 5 Price : 4 / 5
5|Good and in time happy with the service. gr8 expect the same in future ,, , , , , ,
3|Transfer speed only 21mbps. Unable to register the product in the Seagate website.
5|Nice one.. met my needs...tq amazon and your packing for this product was good...
3|Good, Slim. Practical Speed is bit slow than mentioned in the specification sheet.
5|very cheap at this rate. works great. nowadays a must for every tech savvy person.
5|EXCELLENT WORKING USING FOR MY SMART TV TO WATCH VIDEOS.PROMPT DEVIVERY BY AMAZON.
5|Thank You Amazon!! and Seagate is best, trustworthy when it comes to my data.
5|Awesome...arrey awesome....na na na na....na na na na....awsome....its awesome....
5|Awesome product..Speeds 25-30 Mbps(super fast), doesn't heat, Seagate trust factor
5|slim and cool hdd. Like it. have a 3 yr warranty. value for money.
5|Super slim---- gradual transfer speed,--- on the whole perfect choice to buy... :)
5|Very good hard disk.It looks very slim and also it works fast.You can bought this.
5|Good, sturdy and easy to use. Pretty compact. Most of them, its reliable
5|Excellent... I just loved it.... Awesome data transfer speed and fast shipping....
4|Its been 90 days from purchase. Its performing good. Hope goes good for long term.
5|Excellent.....amazon.fast n quality service.appriciated by all means..keep it up..
5|its very goooooood product and The Amazon the leader in delivery of good products.
5|Seagate backup plus slim, its working really nice. Thank u amozon for this prodct.
5|Very compact with metallic feel and easily pocketable. The build quality is great.
5|Please decrease the price ...I have have only 4200 rs ...last week I missed it....
5|It is working as described in the specification.But I really like the speed it has
5|Smooth, classy and simply wonderful piece of technology. Surprisingly Small and compact for a 1 TB drive. Good reading and writing speeds. Go for it. You won't regret.
3|its good..........
3|Speed only 25mbps
4|Good Quality product, have had used it just once but relying on seagate quality..
5|Jst awesome product easily conected..with any computer or desktop. .thnx amazon..
5|Awesome product. Got the delivery very fast and with a great lightening deal. :)
4|Excellent product. No problem in registering on Seagate site for 3 year warranty.
5|Its very good product. Worth for money. You can check warrnty on segate website .
5|Very small form factor. Very fast . no external power supply need. Nice
5|it is very nice , the disk is good speed read/write is good, true value for money
5|Slim yet powerful. Happy to buy it. Software and android apps make transfers easy
4|Its very easy usable and good product. I am very comfortable after securing data.
5|Fantastic experience. No problem at all. Information sent by you point to point.
4|The Quality of the product is great. Go for it if you are looking for a slim HDD.
5|Superb product believe me :) :) no problem since i brought from 6 months superbbb
4|Good quality & packing. on time delivery & product is Satisfactorily working
5|Very much satisfied with this product. Nice look and very easy to carry anywhere.
5|every thing from purchase to deliver is very good. the booked product is so nice.
4|Superb hdd. It looks so small and good and also with usb 3.0 it works very fast.
4|Its slim, its portable & its fast! Doesn't heat up & data transfer is super fast!
5|Working perfectly. Delivery speed is good. Product Description is up to the mark.
4|Well designed compact product delivered promptly. The product is performing well.
4|Everything from product selection, payment, delivery and product is great. Thanks
4|Very satisfied with the product as well as the delivery time which was superfast.
5|i liked this product from Amazon and this is worth for my money i paid this time.
5|One of the best harddirves I bought so far. True to its word compact and durable.
5|Excellent Product with Unbeatable Price. This item is very slim and light weight.
4|Sleek and efficient. Nice product. Performance will be evaluated over time though
5|Its good and nice , smart , can be used in both mac and windows, nice delivery..!
5|Pretty satisfied with the performance and also amazed with the service of amazon.
5|Great piece ! It works great, I m very happy with the performance of this device.
5|Rapid delivery. Product as promised. The hard disk is sleek and works well.
5|this is the best product i purchased from my amazon account and it helps me more
4|Genuine and nice product by Seagate. I liked it. Must buy without much thinking.
4|Best hard drive for this price..slim portable and speed every thing in it.....
1|This hard drive stop detecting after 2 months. All data I lost.. Worst product
5|I have been using it without any antivirus in my computer for 1 year..it's fine!
5|Best one..lucrative and simple functionality fulfill my expectations.money worth
5|Excellent Product... Really Slim :) Would recommend it to a friend...
5|I am using this product for last 2 months and believe me it is really very good.
4|But there are some scratches on Hard disk except that everything is fairly good.
5|it good product. it would be excellent if seagate had provided locking/security.
5|As far as the device, meets my expectations. Delivery super fast. Thanks Amazon.
5|Slim and sleek. Delivered on time by Amazon and I'm very happy with the product.
5|this is running fine. liked the shape, sleek and compact. value for money spent.
4|Simply Outstanding But the product just has some issues with copying bulky data.
4|It takes a little time to getting used to it. Otherwise nice piece of equipment.
5|It is very slim and very fast. It is worth buying. Thank u for ur swift delivery
1|The Device broke down on the second day of its use. On the first day i just transferred my data and the next day when i connected it, It just didn't work rather Hanged my computer again and again. Best thing is the return policy....Sent the device back and hopefully my cheque is about to come....Got a message yesterday that it will reach within 3 days.
5|Excellent product !!! Probably best in the class. Note that 931 GB can be used.
3|here i am giving 3 star bcz it is not working like Quick file transfer USB 3.0
4|Wat I really likes about this HD is it's size.Good to port anywhere..Cool one!!
4|Very good product... speed is good enough... e.g. 18GB copy takes 12-13 mins...
4|Timely delivery and product is as per specifications mentioned. Very satisfied.
4|Would have given 5 Stars if the drive could had an feature of setting password.
4|contented...aal is well so far...buy it if u r thinking to buy or not to buy...
5|its good thing and seagate Backup plus slim 1TB Drive is nice product in market
5|Got my requirement at a highly reasonable price. Item is very good, of course.
5|Product is as awesome as there ever could be ! BUY IT without second thoughts !
4|Very good product, great writing speed, sleek design, good performance over all
5|product as per description a bargain buy Great service from AMAZON as well
5|Worth it! Slim and works great. Best for 1tb hardisks. Don't think,just buy it!
5|No Issue .. Its totally awesome.. But this should contained with a cover also..
3|Nice..and Portable Using...Check that your product immediately after receiving.
4|Amazing product...really defines portability.. Excellent packaging from amazon.
3|Speed of data trasfer is not matching with the specification provided with HDD.
5|I am 100% satisfied with the product and Amazon for their logistic arrangement.
5|Best thing is the size of the product. Its equal to the size of a mobile phone.
5|Its is a nice product and this was my first purchase from amazon which is good.
5|Very good product! Total value for money backed up by solid service by amazon..
5|A good VFM external HDD...have been using it since a month without any issues.
5|Wow...just Wow product. Looks, performance, weight everything is just so good!
5|Great product , amazing delivery by Amazon...u can trust amazon blindflod ....
4|Good product and good transfering speed Delivered within 24 hrs by Amazon
5|excellent and cheaper rate i register this product on seagate official website
4|Good quality, good finishing, good colour, but............a little bet slower.
5|Great Storage Device Very Slim. The Cloud Space from one drive is very usefull
5|Very nice product and also thanks amazon for giving me this product at offers.
4|Still using it and would like to appreciate your delivery product.......Thanks
4|Ultra light,perfect looking amazing hard disk at this price.good work Amazon.
5|Awsome hardisc , its value for money no complaints till date. Fast delivery...
5|It is a good product and best part is I got it at best price. Value for money.
5|best , slim, the usb connection on the disk is tight...so no loose connections
5|Hats off to amazon for this product at such a economical rate. Product is good
4|Good Product. Setup is very easy. Build quality is good.Definitely recommended
5|i love it. the slim look of it awesome and i got it at a reasonable price tooo
5|Now a days it is the best product for storage with small budget and cute look.
5|Very light weight. Works flawlessly and easy to use. Overall very good product
3|The Performance is Good only at PC. It's not supporting for my LG DVD player:(
5|Nice external hard drive very slim & easy to handle & transport as like mobile
5|I am pity much happy with the product received and the service of amazon...??
5|Very sleek, fast data transfer speeds and stylish design. Recommended product.
5|Excellent product. It is so cute and small that it can fit in my jeans pocket.
5|value for money, very good performance. smart delivery. thanks to amazon group
5|The hard drive is good, slim and feels good in hand. Delivery was also prompt.
3|Delivery is too late and I did Not receive the Warranty receipt for my product
4|Satisfied with the product. Amazing deal on Amazon. Completely worth the money
5|Nice one. easy to use. the warranty updated properly in manufacture's website.
5|Very good decision to buy this HDD, Weights is only 141 gm so handy to carry..
5|Its just couple of days i am using this and for now its working fine, lets see
4|Very good product
5|Very nice product
5|Nothing to tell in depth, simply awesome product. Thanks to Amazon and seller
4|Functionality wise,lookwise it is very good...transfer of data is too fast...
5|Excellent. got it with 3yrs warranty. Registration accepted. Genuine product.
5|Its really great and affordable too.... extra storage on one drive is awesome
4|Its as expected and going good till date...cable is too small is only concern
4|Awesome device, great on looks and fulfilling all storage needs with finesse.
5|Excellant product. Would never breakdown i guess the way its going. Must buy!
5|Awsm delivery just love this hard disk truly original must buy?!!!!
5|Product delivered in right time. Hard drive is looking so slim and very good.
4|I liked the performance and it comfortable in carrying worth for this money .
4|Gawd-daymn! This is one anorexic looking External HDD.. So far,so good y'all!
5|Good buy.. Great service by Amazon.. Timely delivery.. Very light weight..
4|The item was delivered before time with damage proof cover. Original product.
4|yes I like the same as its original. Deliver this item beforw specified time.
5|Fantastic. Amazon is great. I like to purchase on it. It's reliable and fast.
1|It's not detecting when I had connected to PC that is the problem I am facing
4|- perforamnce wise toooo good. - slim and attractive - light weight
5|It was in nice form and well packaged. I'm using it and this is working fine.
5|Superb performance !! and very slim.. you can carry it around very easily !!!
4|Pretty handy gadget slim and fast. Even the amazon delivery was in time.
5|Looks good... transfer speed is same as previous. But size n look really nice
5|Light weight, stylish, easy to use. value for money with brand seagate. nice.
4|Its very slim and i loved it. The product reached on time so i am very happy.
5|just the right product for people who want enormous storage in small package.
4|Fast delivery and good service. And i like its look and performance too... :)
4|Length of USB cable is too short. An option can be provided for longer cable.
4|Love the size and data rate. Just did not like the flimsy port on hard drive.
4|Very handy, and worth for the money we are giving, Processing speed is good..
5|Gifted this to my brother and it is smaller than my phone.. works like cake!!
5|Seagate slim 1TB external HD is very handy with price tag below market price.
4|Very compact and light weight...Happy for buying at right time right product
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External delivered as promised. Prompt
1|Doesn't work for playing my videos on TV. Only for data storage it's useful.
2|Very Disappointed. Transfer speed is very slow. Average speed is 19- 23 mbps
5|Good seagate product, drive copy speed 62 mbps and got product before time.
5|Cool harddrive wid awesome blue color. An excellent product. Sleek and handy
5|Looks nice and feels nice as well. Sturdy. Fast. That's it. Value for money.
5|very good Product at 3800rs, best buying from Amazon...excellent performance
5|Excellent product. The product is sleek and sturdy. Works great undoubtedly.
5|I am using it for one month.. No problem till now....Thanks amazon,seagate..
4|Nice product, very handy and slim easy to carry overall a very good product.
5|Works like a charm!!! Quick read and write and very compact to carry around.
5|Good product, Slim. Good enough for backing up your laptop and mobile data .
4|Its very sleek handy... and transfer speed is good.. worth buying...........
5|Bought this for portability. This is one of the most portable HDD available.
5|slim and sexy. speed is pretty good. can't go wrong with this one.
5|Awesome service and reliable product.... You can trust on this product.
5|data transfer are only 50mbps(not 5gbps). upgrade to thunder bolt not clear.
4|Good deleivery time, product is alos what amazon said, working fine till now
5|The hard drive is very good and useful. Also amazon's service was very good.
5|Excellent quality, amazing colour at a very good price. Working well so far.
4|Good .. light weight.. very handy and really slim and portable.. i dont have a usb 3.0 port so tested only on 2.0 port Got a write speed of 12 -14 mbps and reading speed of 20-25 mbps for pictures and small game files .. got a reading/writing speed of 30-35 mbps for movies.. device dosnt get heated.. USB cable is really short.. there must be a cover with it.. really u will feel its need. . Seagate should have used some good building material.. Hope it must be reliable because data is very important.. checked the warranty online and it showed me remaining warranty of 3 years and 2 months.i don't know how this is possible and Delieverd by Amazon in just 4 days
5|Great product. been using for months, no problem at all.highly recommend it
5|I alwz prefer seagate...bt diz prdct iz awsme itz bynd my xpectatn....suprb
3|Product brand are excellent. When it come to performance it can't guarantee
5|Working fine...happy with the product... The product was delivered in 2days
5|Delivered in great condition The drive is the best in this money range
5|got this peodyct in 9 days..1.81 tb .. Usb 2.0 speed is 20 mbps and fast...
4|Simply superb hard disk . Worth for money n amazon service is amazing ....
5|Very good external storage device. It quite slim and fits into your pocket.
5|Really compact and handy. Great Speed. A good value for the money
4|This harddisk is really good. Transfer is fast, working great uptill now!!!
4|would have given 5 stars but the device seems to heat up a lot when in use.
5|I have used this device very nice speed Amazon give delivery in 2 days
4|Working Nice But Too Costlier Than Local Market... Local Market Price 3,500
5|The product is very slim , easy to carry in pockets too and has easy usage.
3|The device works fine. Connected it to a WIN XP PC. It worked when i manually copied files to it. ISSUE: But the dashboard software that auto backs up once installed did not work to auto backup data. It started coming up with a message saying INITIAL JOB PENDING. SOLUTION: The user manual did not anything to solve this issue. Then after a lot of R and D on my PC settings i found the issue. For all users who are facing this problem the solution is to right click on MY COMPUTER->MANAGE->SERVICES and then make sure the TASK SCHEDULER is enabled. The dashboard software during install or during use does not check this and enable if it in disabled and does not alert the user.
5|Using it since last 6 month. Working fine. Speed is also satisfactory
5|Very useful one. Using it past 1 month or so. Very effective and useful.
4|Best product at this price..... Got a best deal on amazon as usual...
5|Best external HDD i have seen so far. Extremely portable and reliable too.
5|It is slimmer than expected and , of course with fast data transfer speed.
5|Finally i got my seagate back up plus portable hd...i like it soo muchh...
4|superb, slip, smart and beautiful device for storing stuff go and grab it.
4|speed is good but it is too delicate but it is nice to try by using a case
5|Super Product.. Unfortunately I missed drive next day while travelling ;-(
5|Excellent device, meet my expectations. Also the amazon delivery was good.
5|Amazingly light weight and a handy product, and similar service by Amazon.
5|excellent delivery,compatible size,high performance...recommended the most
4|Perfectly designed, light weight, Well it is Chotta Packet Bada Dhamaaka!!
5|The hard drive is portable and is fast it solves the purpose..... good one
4|The product is working good & transferring speed is between 17 - 24 maps.
4|Its awesome. I like it. Easy to carry and data transfer is also very fast.
4|Good, Works nicely gives speed ariond 60kb;s in usb 3.0 connection...
5|Very good performance and excellent delivery schedule.. Very satisfied....
3|Its a really good hard disk but speed is not as expected so i give 3 stars
4|Awesome and cool Better Performance and the top of that price is very low
5|Very compact and nice build quality. Works well and not getting heated up.
4|Best product. 100%,original. Registered on Seagate website. Good delivery.
4|Good backup drive, works efficiently....wish they could include a cover for the drive to protect against accidental drop..would like more such products
5|I like this model, it is very good looking and its performance also very good. I hear about this from my friend who already purchased same.
5|This is my first purchase on amazon India. I have purchased a few on the USA one. Great product by Seagate as always. I have never trusted any other brand when it comes to a internal or external Hard Drive. The product is nice and slim compared to my goflex. Like the colour, a break for the usual black.
5|an Amazing product which i got for 6300. very handy and good looking too.
5|Value for money, USB 3.0 is awesome. The additional Cloud space is extra.
5|Great product with high speed, less weight, great look and at best price.
4|Good product.. Slim and cute.. Got before delivery date with nice packing
4|Excellent product. Very compact, nice finish. Happy with Amazon delivery.
4|Seagate Software not working with my PC Everything else is very good
5|Amazing, So Strong, So Quick And Handsome, this One Is Worth Taking Home!
5|Genuine product @ the best price !! perfectttt - highly recommended.
5|Product received as mentioned in description, works efficiently. Genuine.
4|Must have external HD for all.fast copying from comp to HD and vise versa
5|Awesom Product. Nice hdd. Its very helpful to carry and transfer the data
5|Got this in 3900. Want to buy same if got the same or lesser price again.
4|Was good, but would have liked it better if it were a wee bit cheaper ;-)
5|I had used this product over an year and hadn't faced any issues with it.
4|Very much slimmer than others in this price range. ...but getting hot....
4|working good but , transferring fast is slow when comparing to other HD's
4|Good slim product. Good transfer speed. Hope it will last for a long time
5|Product was good. Packaging was good. But it was little lately delivered.
4|It's seagate, I havn't had any issues at all. I really liked the product,
5|Great product at unbeatable price, Specially Batter service then F***kart
5|Amazingly fast and looks quite good also. Only lacks thunderbolt support.
5|delivered in 2 days! looks sleek and fits in shirt pocket. worth buying!
3|Too good product..... but packaging was so bad that disappoint me..
4|Good product worth buying it.. 1 star less for late delivery by Amazon..
3|the logo of company seagate on the packing and on product does not match
5|Genuene product. Amamzon good delivery. Device is working absolute fine.
5|It's been more than 6 months and this baby has shown no problem at all!!
5|Light, compact, beautiful good transfer speed... exceeds my expectation.
5|Product deliered before the mentioned time.. No issues with the product
5|Very ligjtweight but still very powerful and very premium hard drive....
5|good one, easy to use. small. totally worth it. no warranty issue at all
4|It is very slim and portable. I believe it is a good buy. Thanks Amazon!
5|Been a couple of days online, working as a time machine. So far so goof.
3|Guided on storage, fast too. But there is no password protection option.
5|Very good hard drive,,,amazon.in's service is awesome,,,never doubt that
5|Good working fast no more vibration looking slim etc its was really good
4|Neat, slim 1TB drive - very easy to use also - great delivery by Amazon!
5|satisfied with HD space, got for my office use, and no complain till now
5|Working good nice product I am using it still I did not face any problem
4|Really good product from Seagate. It is compact and easy to use product.
5|Excellent Harddisk By Segate.. Excellent Service by Amazon...
4|Product is Good. Got delivery On Time. I used it on USB 2.0 speed is Ok.
5|the product is excellent & price also i got the best price from amazon..
5|Awesome product at a very affordable price alon with quick service !!!!!
5|Sleek design, great product, but check for service centre before buying.
5|more than i expected u can go with this product.......value for money...
5|Wow...great buy... ultra fast shipping. wonderful product. two thumbs up
4|Worth of money . . . . . . . . . . . . ;-) Slim build curved edges.
5|it was amazing I loved the product very much Thanks to amazon
5|Seagate as usual is the best...Very good packing and delivery by Amazon
5|Good and slim Seagate. Nice to use very fast compare to other make
4|Good look, working as excepted. what I ordered i goot the same product.
5|Small and compact, excellent. I loved it.....especially the Red colour.
4|Got it in good condition. slim, light weight, shape, fine finish..
5|Not as fast as WD My Passport Ultra, but its more compact. And cheaper.
4|Super good product. Handle with easy to carry any place. It comport
5|Nothing needs to be said about this.. It is absolutely top class!!
4|Very nice product...got it only 2 days.. Transfer speed is also good...
4|nice product.... up to the mark, well packaging and no problem till now
5|good compact hard disk. its size is around 30% compact than backup plus
5|Its a great product. Delivered as per scheduled. Small,compact harddisc
5|no problem at all go for it dey will deliver d same hdd as shown in pic
4|All is fine....but the cable wire is not fitting correctly(it is loose)
5|It is a good product. It is working properly without any issues so far.
5|It is a good quality hard drive at reasonable price offered by Amazon.
5|I like it .... I love it. Jus the problem is its too much delicate.....
5|Nice product.. Getting good speed while copying. Completely satisfied:)
5|Very good product.. Amazing price meets performance.. thanks Amazon..!!
5|Nice and slim as 4 inch smartphone! decent transfer rate as well !
4|Its an amazing product at an amazing price...one should go for it...!!!
5|Its small and extremely handy. Hope it lasts. Performance seems ok too.
5|only size matters otherwise there is no difference in pendrive and this
4|Its quick in transferring data . . . . . a worthy product . . . . . . .
5|The delivery was fast but packaging looked shabby. It was like a cardboard wrapped around the actual packing of the hard drive. That was not a problem as the Seagate packaging was more than enough. Comes with the Seagate software that allows backup and restore easy. But direct Backing up data was a ease. Starts very fast at around 80 MB/sec but then slows down to 48 MB/sec. Mind it that it was USB 3.0. I didn't observe any heating but have used it continuously for only an hour or so. Nevertheless, the small size, light weight and sturdy build of the drive really impressed me. Hoping that it maintains the performance that it is giving me.
1|Didnt get the backup plus sim i ordered..instead got the other one..!!
5|i love it. transfer rate is awesome. 200gb one drive bonus for 2 yeas.
5|Very Much Compact and Supports in USB drives even with MicroMax TVs :)
5|Fantastic buy. Very slim and ultra portable.transfer speeds are great.
5|Excellent product; great value for money... Amazon amazes as usual !!!
5|The hard disk is too slim and compact.Transfer speed is also great....
5|Its a awesome product..I loved it..The speed of daa transfer is good..
5|Really love it. Silent. No sound, no vibration. High read write speed.
5|Excellent product. Fast . super fast and small in size. Easy to carry.
5|Good thing at a low price. Would recommend if anyone want to purchase.
4|Yes Good Product and Thanks to Amazon, Fast Delivery and Price is Good
5|It's compact and really good - looks wise. No issues with the product.
4|The drive is working fine and the backup software is also working well
4|Seagate slim external drive is fentastic product from amazon. Go ahead
5|Awesome..!! the delivery was fast. and m loving the drive. Its sexy..!
5|Great value for money product. At an awesome price....fast shipping..
5|i loved the product. slim and affordable. amazon service is good.
4|Good Product. Using it for past 6 month. Reliable and worth for Money.
5|I bought this product for Rs 4275 where as in flipkart it was Rs 5000
3|Heating issue!!
5|Very good product at reasonable price and amazing service by Amazon .
4|shipping is so fast... product package was old.. that will cut 1 star
5|Original product on time delivery within 48 hours. You can go for it.
5|slim, fast and light weight ! great product. White color is tooo good
5|Small, compact, efficient... Great Product & great service by Amazon!
4|Good, can be better, if it can be used with Sony smart TV as pendrive
5|Excellent speed with USB 3.0 version. Great product from Great Brand
5|perfect product no hang no issue works as it is supposed to -too good
5|nice product but one minus point is without cover. please issue cover
5|An very Nice Service. Got delivered in time and product working FINE.
5|Product is very good and also amazon service is very good. I like it.
5|Never fails. Always works. that's why always seagate and no one else.
5|Loved the harddisk and thanks to the seller on delivering it on time.
5|Nice product....i am satisfied by the service provided by Amazon.com.
4|Meets my requirements. Copied 22gb in less than 9 minutes in usb 2.
5|It looks very premium and it is slimmer than the wd my passport ultra
5|Working smoothly till now. Cheap price, delivered in right time
5|It's very good product and worth for money and could carry in pocket.
4|Brilliant stuff. Great product with nice quality and value for money.
4|Good one for the best price and best Service from Amazon & the seller
4|As of now it is Woking good.would like to give review after one year
5|Excellent product - Quality is good & delivered within stipulate time
5|Awesome product with reasonable price... Nice packaging by amazon ...
5|The delivery was prompt and the item is working very fine at present.
5|Nice Product Good speed Handy Portable Device Very Glade to purchased
5|seagate is one of the best in market. its fast, easy 2 carry, trendy.
5|Bought before 6 months. Working good. Packing good. Value for money!
1|its very bad experience from amazon.They gave me some faltu product its is not working after a 7 day's. I expect they may replace it.
5|very good hard disk ... it is very slim and good writing speed ...:D
5|Very good product. I got 3 years 2 month warranty instead of 3 year.
5|One Beautiful product. Slim, Fast and Portable....just go for it! :)
5|Great speed, easy to format for Mac and Windows, slim like a phablet
5|Fully satisfied with the product ( 2tb) and the delivery time taken.
5|Very much satisfied wid the discount by Amazon n the product quality
5|Very good. Read / Write speed as expected. I recommend this 1TB HDD.
5|Excellent product.Compact and handy too.Fits in jeans pockets easily
5|As usual Seagate products in this category is as per my expectation.
5|Use it for my MBA (128 gb only) and works like a charm. Super fast!
4|It works perfectly fine. Sometimes I don't get a good writing speed.
4|Portable and compact. Does what it's meant to. Good value for money.
5|Nice, slim and good hard drive. Good speed on both usb2.0 and usb3.0
5|Good product !! Amazon is just amazing with its product delivery !!!
4|It is very nice! The speed of data transfer is also comparably good!
5|GOOD PRODUCT BUT ONLY ONLY ONE PICES PROVIDE EACH CUSTOMER BY AMAZON
5|excellent experience ... with 3years Warranty. highly recommended ..
1|not received cashback from bank even after 4 months, product is good
5|GOOD PRODUCT AS PER SPECIFICATION . EXCELLENT SERVICE AFTER SALES .
5|This was a very good deal. Got the HDD for 4367/-. Great copy speeds
3|Good but not great. I am not satisfied with the USB 3.0 performance.
5|excellent amazon.with in one day got this product..and it works well
4|I am satisfied with seagate backup plus slim 1TB portable Hard disc.
5|Really happy to own this. Was very sleek and found extremely useful.
5|Very compact light weight and awesome Hard drive at affordable rate.
5|Nice and like mobile size.It working very nice. I like it very much.
5|Sleek design and light weight.Best hardisk available in the market..
5|I compared the price on google and then bought it. Working perfectly. I recommend it for everyone. I can bet you will love this one
4|The product working very nice.Got on Amazon at lowest price online.
5|Light weight and easy to carry every where . product is very good .
5|Excellent performance.....fulfil every data storage requirement....
4|Good speed. Handy. Haven't faced any problema for over a month now.
5|I am very happy with the product. Worked flawlessly. Thank u amazon
5|Very much compact in size...great transfer speed...its just awesome
5|best product in external hard disk section. working good. satisfied
4|Elegant look.. Haven't used much but satisfied with the performance
4|Last month I bought this product and it is working absolutely fine.
5|Elegant design Compact Fast service Easy transaction
4|A good product , with a short wire. And a good delivery by amazon .
4|Nice compact disk with gr8 capacity. Amazon was brilliant as usual.
5|Delivery is on the date. Product is also as it was expected...
5|Slim and small in size......good product.....I like the product....
4|HDD seems to be wrkng fine bt registration for warranty is nt wrkng
5|Nice product !!! works well!!!! can sure meet your demands too.....
3|Please hard disk cable missing so please provide my cable 0.3 & 0.2
5|Fantastic item.. Grey delivery and packing.. product is damn good..
1|The drive is not deducting in my computer . No support by anyone ..
4|Very Good external hard disk & data transfer speed is also good...
4|Quite quick data transfer.. Almost slim as mobile. Average performance.
5|IT IS EXCELLNT PRODUCT TO BUY IT. LIGHT WEIGHT AND GOOD PERFORMANCE
5|Good product, easy to use, portable enough, extremely fast delivery
4|it was way i wanted. looking further with some other shopping also.
5|its great!!!!! I got it very less price compare to the market price
4|Cool performance. Amazon delivery was also very good.101% satisfied
4|The HDD is met my expectations. I actually bought this HDD for dumping backups of my laptops and its already kind of 95% space utilized. At this stage i performed some tests and i was pretty impressed with the results, I was getting around 73MBps transfer speed at copy and 70MBps move transfer speed for files sizing around 30 to 44 GB. Build Quality is Above average, Not that solid casing, but its good enough for safe handling. Good Seller, Shipment was pretty quick, but packing was a bit disappointment there was no bubble wrap or Fill Air packets used to protect the package.
5|the color is stunning ,smooth finishing very slim ,fit in hand ,,,in thid we get out of 1 TB ...931 gb ...amazon service is gud
4|price is good, hope;fully it works without fail say for five year.
4|Good hard hard drive slim and small easy to carry and fast back up
5|I love this hard drive.. good fast and best deal found in amazon..
5|Excellent hard disk+ DIWALI offer 7000 rs+ 3yrs warranty = AMAZON
5|great product bought it 6 months back still going smooth
5|Nice product... very satisfied with the delivery and the product..
5|Excellent product. Excellent Performance ,Loved it. Thanks Amazon.
2|Fell down from 1 feet all data lost. Best used if used with cover.
4|On time delivery, Slim to handle, portable, no issues faced so far
4|I had ordered Blue colored product, but I got red colored product.
5|The Harddisk was absolutely perfect and works like a champion!! :)
2|Data cable is not good and no warranty of product so plz don't buy
4|trouble free, user, friendly device. recommended for all backups .
5|Good service by amazon small and compact external hard drive.
2|This product is not working as anticipated. Better try other brand
4|Using for more than a year. Works good. No problem faced till date
5|Very small and thin. Just bigger than my phone. Love this product.
5|excellet product. fully meeting all features as mentioned in site.
4|this is very good product in this price & transfer speed is aesome
5|i m very happy to get this harddisk in my budget...thank u amazon.
5|The product is as stated. On time delivery from Amazon. Worth buy.
5|very compact colorful good speed In time delivery !
4|Portable and user friendly. Amazon deal is the best. Recommended..
5|Delayed delivery.. But product is good delivered with nice packing
5|Great Product from Seagate. Build quality and the look is awesome.
5|Exactly what I needed. Works well with my Mac Book Air for backup.
3|very good product and nice looking, but uplode speed is 24-28 kb/s
5|Superb slim, super light. Beautiful finishing. Must buy hard disk.
5|Unbeatable both looks and quality. Excelllent service from amazon.
4|Good product, good in performance, good in size and best in looks.
5|Believe me when I say Seagate Plus Slim is the best external HDD available in the Market, having used many of them myself (of my friends ofcourse). This little device is arguably best among all of them. Pros - Lightweight *Lighter than my smartphone* - Slim - Fast *65 MB/sec on 3.0* - Social Media Backup - Compatible with Android *Yeah -Stylish Cons - Cable is Small And as always Amazon Great service received in just 2 days. P.S I bought Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB at just 6043 Rs *INCLUDING SBI CASHBACK*
5|its working super fine. very easy to register too. its a must buy
4|Real good value for money and best people to shop with Amazon !!!
5|A good product which is worth for the price. Prompt delivery too.
5|Awsome product..5/5 Speed 5/5 Looking 5/5 Heat 5/5
5|Bought for my colleague. He says that the product is excellent...
4|i hv not used it yet.. but i hope it will be working excellent :)
5|Amazing product go for it... In local market it costs around 4800
5|good transfer speed, compact size, looks good. Totally worth it.
5|Easy to carry anywhere Excellent speed Awesome Delivery
4|nic product....but heated quickly when connecting to my lappy....
5|Its a great product. Amazon delivered it within 3 days. Thank you
5|Its worth to buy this EXTERNAL HDD ... Simply awesome performance
4|Good one. Speed is pretty much good. Design is nice and very slim
5|Excellent Product as described in the Amazon product description.
5|The best product I have ever used in Hard drives..Thanks Amazon..
5|beautiful product. slim and fast, product delivery was nice.
3|Data trasfer speed is not that good.. on an averages getting 21mb
4|Product received is as per expectations and delivered on time too
5|super HDD i ever had slim it is less weight dan ma phon
4|VERY NICE PRODUCT,PROTECTIVE PACKING FROM AMAZON,PROMPT DELIVERY.
4|Amazon customer service was excellent and this HDD are very good.
5|Very nice experience and my expectation has completely fulfilled.
5|Amazing. The service was well, excellent. It met my expectations.
4|excellent product. meets all data backup and storage requirement.
5|I am using it since a week now. Its really compact n high speed.
5|Its Only 2 Years Warranty From Seagate India Through Accel India
5|This is one of the better external disc I have got recent times!
5|Its extremely useful while being slim. Easy to carry in pockets.
5|Nice....product...but rates mere purchase kerte Hi girls gaye...
5|Super product with decent price. More over service is above par.
5|excellent so far. about 1month using. fast small and affordable.
4|I like this product, very useful and amazing delivery by amazon.
5|I have been using this over an year now and its really awesome .
5|Very reliable and easy to use pdt . A must for corporate people.
4|I did not give you 5 star due to delay delivery but Nice Product
5|Original and very good.. Amazon is fast and always reliable
4|Very nice. Copying files very fast. Its looking like cell phone
5|As always, Seagate has come up with a very good quality product!
4|Nice and portable....no difference in speed but nice and small..
5|superb..... I it works fantasticaly in usb 2.0.best with usb 3.0
4|good prices. good product details and good delivery. keep it up.
5|the one day delivery was awesum...and the product is as expected
5|very handy ,tiny size,easy to carry.till now no problem to use.
5|Excellent product from Seagate and excellent service from Amazon
5|I have ordered this product for INR 4,349.00 even though "WD Elements Portable 1TB USB 3.0 External Hard Drive (Black)" is available for INR 3,747.00 which is INR 600 cheaper. I bought a WD 2TB external HDD one time but after it came out faulty. WD replace the drive but the replacement was a faulty one too. Eventually after 3 returns I could not get a HDD that works and gave up. I vouched that I would never buy WD product and till date I have not puchased a single WD external HDD. Seagate HDDs have been working great and I hope this one works fine too.
3|Brought it from amazon at Rs 4150 it gave a speed of 20 - 22 mbps but after some time came down to 10 -13 mbps ???
4|Quality product. i'm using it for the last 1 year. Really fast.
5|good quality ,nice product very fast delivery thank you Amazon.
5|very nice product , no complaint, ( i am using on windows XP ).
5|Awesome transfer rate and good price, what more we can ask for?
5|I have it from the past 1 year now..no problem faced till now .
4|Very slim and worth for purchase . Waiting for Amazon cashback.
5|nice product ... easy to use.. slim.. excellent experience.. :)
5|It is an excellent product and really worthwhile for the price.
3|good product. wish the usb cable was bit long and probably flat
4|Thank u Amazon for timely delivery.. The Hard drive is so slim.
5|been using an year. Very portable, looks sleek and so useful :)
4|It is a good product, with meeting almost all the expectations.
4|its just been 2 month but i liked it design, color & sleekness.
5|Delivered promptly before the due date. Works well as expected.
5|Very satisfactory Amazon delivered the product well in advance
5|Excellent Ptoduct. Very easy to use. Data trasfer rate is good.
5|just go for it because this external hard drive is aswm .......
4|Good product. Speed is good. Price is ok. So good option to buy
4|Awesome product, only downside is it does not have thunder bolt
4|Good product and best in transfer of data Worth for money
5|Quick delivery... Easy installation... Absolutely no problem...
4|Delivered as promised. Still need to find to use the product :)
5|Awsome product with this price is only possible through amazon.
4|Fully satisfied with the product and timely delivery by Amazon.
5|neat and compact,slim.....perfect for travel unless you drop it
5|Nice item. Product is good. Nice seller. Fast Delivery. Thanks.
4|Wonderful product... Transfer speed also good with v3.0 slot...
4|Got what I wanted and as per promises made. Thanks Sridhar
5|Very nice and slim. Works great. High speed data transfer rate.
5|So far so good, no complaints regarding delivery or the product
5|tHIS IS VERY SIMPLE, PORTABLE, HIGH CAPACITY AND LOOKS ELEGANT.
5|Amazon.com is very fast and good service provider, time to time they will inform about your purchase item. thank u
1|worst product
5|I love Seagate = the best 2 tb hardisk for mobile and tab ,computer etc I love Seagate = I have only purchased the Seagate backup plus slim 2 tb for connecting to my smartphone ,mobile and it work like butter smooth charm ,very good Steps only for connecting to hardisk to android devices First reformat your hardisk to exfat from NTFS and connect via otg adapter Check your mobile support otg function on internet Other wise any problem just email aman7711333@gmail.com i will try to help you .friends IAM NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR MOBILE AND ANDRIOD DEVICES WHILE CONNECTING THE HARDISK TO IT . I HAVE DONE ON MY OWN RISK BUT NOW I AM HAPPY AND I AM HAVING NO PROBLEM WITH HARDISK AND MOBILE use your original mobile data cord in otg to connect your hardisk to mobile HAHA 2 TB of a storage a huge space for movies, games ,HD songs I use in my smartphone can you imagine 2 Tb storage yes all seagate lover and friends i am using it on my android 4.2 smatphone what is the value 128 GB card of more than 7000 rs when you get 20000 gb or 2 tb storage in your mobile for just 8017 indian rs So light weight and small hardisk in great price better and 10000000000 times better than other hardisk brand And about the write and read speed of loving Seagate hardisk on mobile more than 45 to 50 mb per second different to the specifiction of mobile and USB 2.0 and usb 3.0 Really friends in this 21 century there is no value of 32 ,64,128 GB of size memory card I am a person who walk with more than 400 of movies of 3 to 18 gb of single movie in my loving Seagate 2 tb backup plus slim hardisk connected to my smartphone mobile About the Design of hardisk First of I love red color the most good looking colour And front down metal printed Seagate with its sign and look pretty cool with its white light when connected Also works very good performance with PC laptop etc Easyly fit in your pocket I want to kiss the hands of the inventor and designer of the beautiful hardisk Seagate backup plus slim 2 Tb red Please buy cover for protection of hardisk really value able Finally I love Seagate backup plus slim 2 tb red external hardisk
4|Meets expectation, light weight and transfer rate is also good
5|Slim, simple, worth, go for it! Thumbs up for this product
5|Got noo problems with Seagate as usual :') Handy and slender !
5|Very fast in data transfer and had a plenty of storage space.
5|It's a really good product .simply don't think much, buy it..
5|Why didn't i buy this earlier, it just made my life incredible
5|Extremely fast drive just buy it without thinking sleek design
5|the product is nice, no problems with performance and delivery
4|Good product easy to use mobile back up is really good feature
4|Good product, great experience and timely delivery, appreciate
4|The well rewarded name seagate. Woking well & nice look ......
4|The Item Reached in time and Product is ok as per information.
5|Good seller, fast shipping... Product is good..... Thank u....
5|its a worthy product... its speed is great with handy size....
5|Its very good and light weighed ......easy to carry in pockets
4|amazon is good in giving service & the hard drive is wonderful
3|HD is good, But the way it was packed was not good. Very bad !
5|Great product and superfast delivery with excellent packaging.
5|Product is excellent and delivered well before scheduled time.
5|Nice product & quality i got it on 6350/- only in diwali sale.
5|Awsm data transfer speed of HD..timely deliverly by Amazon. ?
5|A product offering storage with smart phone back up is unique.
5|nice product as i expected. and i got it before delivery date.
5|Best Product!!! Transfers data faster and no problem yet.
5|Perfectly shaped, light-weight and speedy. Its amazingly good.
5|Good product. Will recommend for 100% safe back-up.
5|Awesome product. Delivered within 2 days of placing the order.
1|Very poor services experience with amazon ....after placed so many complain regarding my orders has not fulfilled by your vendor when i submitted a complain from using different social media IE- Facebook, twitter and then my order has been cancel .so this is not a solution ideally either you have to fulfilled this product to me any how by charge a penalty to your vendor or given some discount coupon to me for satisfactory . but unfortunately none of job you folks have done....I Hence I never come again to this side in future.
5|1. price of the hard drive is 800 ruppes lesser than flipkart 2 Got the product two days before the estimated delivery date.(ordered on thrusday from bangalore and it came from mumbai .And I got it on saturday afternoon) 3 Excellent back up facility 4 I transferred files to my hard drive Its speed was 60-80 MBps 5 Great slim look.I think you can take it in ur pocket. 6 Some spoiler was claiming It became heated .I think they are wrong. This is my first order from amazon .I am fully satisfied.
3|Its a very slim, graceful, handy product and its led light also cool. But who do not want to compromise with the speed.. Guy.. then leave this product go for another one. It has speed of ~19-22 on USB 2.0 and 29- 33 on USB 3.0. It give speed of 72 only on first time use after that its leaves its soul. Now for amazon ... so bad service you provided for this product as for my earlier products I purchased from you. Secondly So badly packed this product .... 0 rating for you packing for this product. Thanks
5|It's genuine and I am lucky to purchase a proudect in aamozon
5|Prompt Delivery and happy with the performance of the device.
5|Order received in time...n hard disk is working properly. ..
5|Its Good enough, as expectations and defined specifications?.
1|Excelent remedy to save your data easily.very user friendly.
1|Very Very Very Bad Product. I cant copy 5 MB file to it.
4|Supplied in-time, and the product is also good at lower price
5|Phenomenal product. I am looking to buy a second as a backup.
5|Very stylish 2tb with funky red color. Got it for my Macbook.
1|not as per the spec. given in AMAZON.IN. It's a FRAUD comapny
5|It's good till now. Need a password protection system for it.
5|You can not get nothing better than this in that price range.
5|It is nice and compact. It is working fine. Thanks to Amazon.
5|Really good product and worth at such price ... thanks amazon
5|Excellent product, o.m.g 72mbps speed in USB 3.0 really good.
5|Do i need to write anything about this product.Name is enough
2|Seal was open when i got the product but the product is good.
4|slik model is impressive, and timely delivery is appreciable.
4|Item was not good. Cable is very bad. Amazon delivery is good
5|Perfect Product. Slim and Fast. Delivery timing was punctual.
5|Product was delivered on time. Slim and compact.Working well.
5|Amazing products & service for delivery before delivery date.
5|value for money, slim pocket size,easy to carry.....beautiful
5|My son liked it a lot, so I will buy one more for my husband.
4|Excellent product, It's copy and paste speed is to good.
5|Very slim, lighter than my mobile. Got it at very good price.
5|Great value for money and awsome product with great delivery
5|It's a good hard drive.Anyone willing to buy just go for it.
5|super product.. no words to tell anything for this product..
5|Look smart & slim. Comfortable for carrying. I am satisfied.
5|Good built quality very slim and portable, must go for it...
5|I am Satisfied with the product, it fulfilled my expectation
5|Product, price, delivery speed.... everything is awesome....
5|Amazing sturdy build quality. Fast transfer. Thing of beauty
5|Quick and Prompt delivery by Amazon. Very good . keep it up.
5|I would recommend this HDD its slim and portable as it says.
4|It is really good and the service by amazon was also awesome
5|Excellent product, quite handy and mobile for versatile use.
5|Delivered on time,Very happy to have this and working superb
3|Data transfer rate is very slow.Have any solution for this?.
5|It was exactly what I wanted and as I had expected it to be.
5|This is a good buy. Facing no issues and it's working great.
5|Quality product. Excellent speed for 2.0 Go for it
5|The product is great, I am quite satisfied with performance.
5|Best Product but could have been better if the price was low
5|The product has performed well till now. Pretty easy to use.
4|Very nice and reliable product. Design is sleek and stylist.
4|Nice slim hard disk transferring files within a few minutes.
5|Compact, fits anywhere, USB 3.0 makes data transfer faster..
4|really light compared to WD drives. Delivered fast by Amazon
5|This is a really good product - size, speed and portability.
5|good product delivered by a good online retailer. thank you.
3|nice product , but becomes hot quickly need some improvement
4|It's simply awesome. works perfectly on both windows and mac
4|the product is very nice .... but i didn't got the cash back
4|Best product but in usb 2.0 transfer speed is below 20 MB/s.
5|The Best in the market I loved it just buy it no cons for me
4|Very gook backup software. You can sync any folder you want.
5|It is very light weight and having good data transfer speed.
5|Worth it! Can be used as a backup or a normal external HDD!!
4|*Good Product By Seagate, I am Using It By Last 15 Days, Transfer speed was awesome (around 45MB - 50MB in 2.0), looks decent, i can carry in my pocket, After Registration got 3 years warranty. *Product Received in 7-8 days after dispatching, Packaging was not as expected by Amazon, Only One Amazon Plastic Bag On Segate Box without any Box or Bubble Bag. Expect more packaging For Safety Of Hard Disk (Not Giving 5th star due to packaging). Overall Product Was Good & im satisfied.
5|Nice product...it running smoothly....very much useful...?
4|Item receive on time on good condition good job keep it up.
5|nice but i didnt get cloud space .....as per seagate offers
5|One of the best external storage device with grt price tags
5|it is most useful for me. No any issue regarding Hard Disk.
5|nice product. easy to convenience in used. fast delivery .
4|it is good, but 2.0 port file transfrer is not much faster.
5|Super external hard drive. .... Easy to use and handle
4|Good product, working fine, i would recommend to go for it.
5|The product is really good. And the same with the delivery.
5|Very small and lightweight. Great transferring speeds.
4|Yes, it is good over all . easy to copy and easy to handle.
5|Nice 1 totally suprab one and nice price also thanks Amazon
4|Its very compact and handy to carry....ITs a better deal...
5|Great hard drive. Good transfer speeds. Strongly recommend.
4|The slim handy hard drive is very useful and meets my need.
5|Very handy, slim indeed ! Great product from Seagate!!
5|Very nice product. High speed and design is also very good.
5|Awesome form factor,nice finish,as always amazing delivery.
5|Awesome, the transfer speed is amazing. All is well so far.
5|One of the best product from seagate, its working excellent
5|Meet my expectations really awsome speed and buit quality .
4|A nice slim portable dimension with a high capacity of 1TB.
5|This device is very handy as description says slip it meets
5|Great Speeds!!! Less in Weight!!! Compact Size!!!
5|its a very nice product...thanks amazon for ur services....
5|Top class product. Better bargain. Bheema Bhat M
2|Product working well but heating prob...any one hv tat prob
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Blue) I am getting up-most data transferring (Moving + Copying) speed up-to 55Mbps. Satisfied for what i paid. Bingo After using this product for about a month now I came across the following traits of the product: - Its really handy - its fast - Its awesome - Amazon's delivery services are reliable as usual - the color of the product is very nice - shiny killing blue.......!!!!!!!!!!!
5|Amazon rocks, perfect product as described. 100% genuine!!
2|its working fine for last 3 months but now just disgusting
5|This is the best HDD which one can get at such price range
5|Awsome hdd, i got 200gb of cloud storage along with this..
5|it is what it is. 1tb hard disk. cant expect more or less.
5|Product met the description and was delivered before time.
5|Very good product, got this in deepawali offer for 4000rs.
5|User friendly back up process Compact, premium finish
5|Received in good condition and performance is outstanding.
5|Does what it's says. Good transfer speed and compact size.
4|Delivered on time as usual , good product no issues so far
5|I just loved it .. not even a second thought for a second.
5|Hassle free transaction. Functioning well. Fully satisfied
5|Excellent product with awesome look and great performance.
4|Wowww..... a very slim and beautiful, comfortable. .
4|It is a satisfactory product and fulfills my requirements.
4|nice product .. got on time .. service is ok .. on time ..
4|slim. but plastic body. transfer rates are good.
4|Now it is fine but it will work perfect, is to be observed
5|I bought it 10 days before good speed and product was good
4|Amazing product. Worth the money. Delivery not very quick.
5|IT IS WORKING VERY GOOD AND I LIKED THE PRODUCT VERY MUCH.
4|Super product. Super price and superbbbbbb speeeeeddddd...
5|Thanks for Amazon.in its simple to carry and nice.........
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is an impressive portable hard drive for its physical size and capacity. Though Seagate did not quote any performance numbers like it did for the Backup Plus Fast, I was not surprised with the results. The Slim delivered great sequential read and write speeds of 88.6MB/s 119.3MB/s respectively while its random activity boasted transfer rates of 58.7MB/s for read and 95.6MB/s for write. Got the HDD at the lowest price at Amazon. What more a person desires.
5|As expected... No issue occurs. Happy to shop with amazon
4|good product, sleek, light and fast in transferring data.
5|It was an awesome deal. I am very happy with the product.
5|Product is nice and slim .easily carry out in the pocket.
5|It looks great, fits in a pocket and a Seagate hard disk.
5|Its perfect, safely delivered with good packing...amazing
5|Nice product. transfer speed is ok, but little bit heatin
5|Its very sleek and compact. Gives storage space of 931GB.
5|its good, small in size , light weighted, liked it a lot
4|VERY GOOD HDD WITHOUT POWER ADAPTER, BUT LITTLE BIT PRICY
5|This Hard Disk is small and sleem. I like this Hard Disk.
4|As of now the product is working good without any issues.
5|Awesome hard disk...get one earlier than delivery time...
5|Good product in very good price and good packed as always
5|nice. compact and lightweight! the speed is good as well
4|Good. But the delivery is delayed from the expected date.
5|It's amazing. Quality is very good . no issues till now .
5|Awesome work by seagate...jst lyk mini pocket bomb.... :)
5|too small and portable hard disk. i recommended u to buy
2|Average Product. Price could be lower. Looks are average.
5|Awesome product by segate and excellent service by Amazon
5|Slim, fast and works well. Very happy with this purchase.
5|good product and without using time for here & their.....
5|Good ! Brushed stainless steel finish makes it different!
5|Good product. Slim. Very fast transfer speeds on USB 3.0.
5|Very Slim & Light to Carry Around With You Everywhere....
4|Excellent Product and it is more faster than other Drives
5|Looks and Works brilliantly with my MacBook Pro Yosemite!
5|Good product at fairly priced. Transfers at quick speeds.
5|Good and reliable product , Amazon delivery was very good
5|So far so good. Like the packaging, design and delivery
3|Speed on USB 3.0 not so great as my older WD USB 3.0 had.
3|ok product is good but 1hr usage product will heavy heate
5|Superb Segate is the best in world and Amazon to good....
5|Best product , delivered the product within 1 working day
5|Efficient service & good product for a reasonable price.
4|Good product .. Best delivery for me, so far.
4|Good looking and worth for money. Ayyappan, Chennai
5|nice rate to but not case back offer available still now
5|Good product.. and also the nice service by seagate
5|Excellent performance of the drive. Very handy and sleek
4|Thank you it delivered as expected and in good condition
5|Very slim, very compact...its fast and so far no issues.
5|i love that book and thank to amazon for timely delivery
4|Slim, easy to handle with good features for that price !
4|I got this from Amazon @ 3899/-overall performance good.
4|the usb cable even if moved a little, gets disconnected.
5|very very good product. Thanks AMAZON for quick delivery
5|Recognised by my Sony LED TV, its fast, its slim, super.
5|Excellent product. It is easy to keep, maintain and use.
5|In good price i got it in 4491 Rs and it is working well
5|Ecellent product...timely delivery...fits into my pocket
5|delivered in fastest time possible . works like expected
5|Excellent product, delivered on time as usual by Amazon.
5|Good Product for Low price and this is only in amazon...
4|Product is good.But courier service by GATI is terrible.
5|Amazing product at very reasonable price...must buy...!!
5|A good product, more is the service of Amazon. Gud luck.
5|Very small and compact... almost size of a mobile phone!
5|Really Extant Device.................. Slim & Small
5|Good as it has served the purpose for what it was bought
5|Awesome speed/accessibility with economic (best) price.
5|Such a beautiful little piece of awesomeness! It is sleek, slim, very light and neat, and packs in 2 TB! I had Seagate GoFlex 2 TB previously, it was huge and needed an external adapter, and it was USB 2.0. Because of its size, managing it was very difficult and one day by accident it fell and all the data was lost, which would not have happened if there was not such a paraphernalia - data cable connecting to the pc and then external adapter connecting to the electricity supply. All my data was lost in just a second. Now with this new slim and little one (it is even smaller and sharper than my Seagate 320 GB Expansion) which I can carry anywhere in anything, I am so satisfied and happy! Thank you Amazon! I was apprehensive of buying Electronic goods online, but this rocks!
5|I have 100% satisfaction with this portable hard drive.
5|Really a very good product. Its very reasonable prize.
5|amazed to receive the product on the perfect time line.
5|Superb Quality and as of now its going good. A good buy
5|Very fast Data Transfer rate and compact too. Love it !
5|very smart product to use easily storage data and fast.
4|Works fine and amazing service. Great product loved it.
4|Compact product, nice finish. Good for back up of data.
5|Good product quality wise,but price is little bit more.
5|As usual, a Seagate HDD..nothing more needs to be said.
1|Ur productivity r fake n wested product of hardisk
5|Nice. Slim good look Data transfer speed also good
5|Excellent product.... Also received in a good condition
5|A good backup for all my files. Speed is ok at 20 mbps.
5|Nice product and colour and easy to use .Happy with it.
5|Delivered in time. Copying data Fast. Handy and Silky..
5|Shipment is very good and working is very good till now
4|Good product at a good price...with great metallic look
4|product is nice n seller too. loved the experiance
1|not working after one month of buying.lost my all data.
5|very handy,speedy and reasonable......totally satisfied
5|Product is very good. I am giving review after 4 month.
5|Excellent product.. far better than I have thought of..
4|working very well and it transfer speed is also good...
5|Using for some time now. No issues and good performance
5|Very good product, found more than I expect.... Rs.3900
4|As reliable as they come. Fantastic. Worth every penny.
5|Very Slim. Sturdy. Stylish. Excellent 3 Years warranty.
5|It is a very good product in terms of speed and quality
5|Excellent Quality.... and Best service from Amazon
5|Is very slim and compact, the delivery was ReaLLy fast
5|Good Product... make your storage problem solve...
5|Performs good. Awesome device, covers all your needs :)
4|Good External Hard Disk to buy at very reasonable rate.
5|Nice Product & price of 4099 is perfect for the product
5|Best price so far, super fast delivery, got it next day
5|A very good product. Thanks to Amazon for its priceing.
5|Nice product by Seagate.Satisfied with the performance.
5|Thumb Up for Great 1TB HDD and Quick Amazon Service !!!
5|Excellent product, slimmer than my 500 GB hard drive ;)
3|its works gud with my lap but very slow with my desktop
5|Lookwise n performance Seagate Backup plus is excellent
5|Nice product slim in size and has a good transfer speed
5|Delivered on the 3rd day, smooth performance till date.
4|Chord length is too small else every thing is good.. :)
4|Good speed of data transfer U can surely go for it
2|Slow in speed WD is more fast a a a a a a a a a a a a a
5|This drive is compact and the build quality and finish is really impressive. 1TB is a handsome amount of storage space. Data transfer rates for me are 20-24 MBps as my laptop is USB 2.0. (You get top transfer speeds only when you transfer bulky files like video files, etc. If its a folder with thousands of small files, the rate drops on every storage media) The package was well wrapped and delivery on time. This was my first purchase, thanks Amazon!
5|Its Awesome
4|Awesum service by Amazon & great product by Seagate ..
5|No flaws perfect device works like dream with my xbox1
1|Can we use this hard disk for television...... @sony ?
4|So far so good :) Its slim and I like the design.
5|Very good product from Seagate, Slim, fast...go for it
5|Got the item as per my requirement at reasonable price
5|Portable good device.. good transfer speed ..no issues
5|awesome hard disk & best site for purchase any product
4|This product is available in amazon.in for best price.
5|Prompt service, valuable product as per my requirement
5|Small, Lightweight, works quite well no issues so far.
5|seagate backup plus is an excellent external hard disk
5|but i don't know why the price differs for the colour.
5|It has been working just fine as of now. Good product.
5|Good looking and slim hard disk. true value for money.
5|Good One! Quick Delivery - awesome product - nice deal
4|Good product, Built quality could have improved more.
4|It is so slim... It's a gud buy.. Working perfectly!!!
5|i was really impressed as I got the hdd within 2 days!
5|the product is awesome and delivery also in time only.
4|its very compact and gud looking with fast speed...(y)
4|Good product. Hard dick case could be more customised.
5|Fast delivery and product just as described. Thank you
4|ohh its very slim and very cute , I m glad to have it.
5|Product is 100% genuine. Packaging is needs to improve
5|great product transfer speed is to good & very compact
4|Very fast very light weight and very small.. I love it
5|Very nice product copy past speed is very fast 32 Mbps
5|Quite happy with my decision to buy the storage drive.
4|Good product, working fine. good service from courier.
5|Its an excellent product...i am very happy to have it.
5|Awesome Product. I brought 4TB. Handy, Slim, Good Transfer speed & Good looking
5|Very useful protect 100mps/second Good luck nice
4|Value for money product and stunning looks... :D
4|Nice, slim, efficient, light weight storage gadget...
5|Totally upto my expectation... I love this product...
5|Excellent product. Easy to use, exceeded expectation.
5|Go for it! Wait for price fall. I bought it for 4200.
5|Expensive but worth the money. Best in it's category.
5|Product met expectation. Need to test speed on USB 3.
4|IT IS WORKING FINE I RECOMMENDED THIS TO FRIENDS
5|Satisfied with the products and services of Amazon.in
5|The hard disk is slim and easy to portable. Liked it.
1|All the computer started not reading within one month
5|it is the one of the smartest HDD in the market......
4|The product is on the expected lines and worth buying
5|So far having a wonderful feeling... Thank u amazon..
5|Its good product but delievery from amazon is poor...
5|Really good to have this cute and handy External HD!.
5|Very good product.... i m loving it..... just go 4 it
5|Awesome Product....!! Good in looks, performance...!!
2|Transfer rate is not so good..only getting 5-10 mb/s.
5|Compact and slim for a 1TB was great with good price.
5|Nice Hard disk ,looks cool..but don't plug it in T.V.
5|Just one word in every aspect..... "AWESOME"!
5|Working fine.It's very slim so easy to carry anywhere
5|good product nice finish, very slim light weight HHD.
5|quite good performance less price go for it
5|Just as mentioned light and fast, with fast delivery.
5|Superb.. like it..!! Cheapest price by amazon. Thanks
5|Good product Online support Prompt delivery
5|This is my second hard drive.... before this i purchased WD from Amazon only... both are working fine and equally good :) no complaints so far...
5|This is probably the best hard drive you can buy if you are to use it with a Mac. With that price tag, also quite cheap. As the name suggests, it is pretty slim when compared to other hard drives in this price range. It comes with USB 3.0 which makes the transfers blazing fast. You'll not get a better deal at any other e-seller website. I highly recommend this hard drive to anyone looking to buy a hard drive. Thanks Amazon!
5|Very useful. Flaw less, trouble free, plug and play.
5|Nice product. Fast delivery by Amazon. Keep it up.
5|Product arrived in excellent condition. As described
5|A Suitable hard disk for me. Nice one product to me.
5|its great to buy but pls. buy protective case for it
5|Good build quality . We can put this drive in pocket
4|Very prompt delivery and was happy with the product.
5|Genuine product. Next day delivery. Would recommend.
5|This is great product and use it very easy. Nice one
5|Excellent service and product meets my expectations.
5|Thanks to amazon for superb discount on good product
5|Device Is Very compact, quick delivery from Amazon.
5|Delivery was quick and product works fine. Good buy.
5|Satisfied..a great product for storing files safely.
4|I am quite satisfied by the the product and services
5|Received before expected time. Product 100% genuine.
4|Good product..but WD My Passport is better than this
5|i love this product.data transfer rate is very good.
5|Beat Harddrive from Seagate,Good service from Amazon
5|Slim, Light, Fast....Trusted brand at a great price.
4|met expectations. hope it delivers the promised life
5|Fast delivery by Amazon. And excellent product.
5|Superb product fast delivery good original seal pack
5|Good quality...great price..next day dlvry...Awesome
4|Till today working fine. Than you & to Seagate also.
5|Appreciate the size n light weight, truly portable..
4|Good product could have been packaged better though.
5|Its Awesome product when i use it first time........
5|It met my expectations, its really original product.
4|very nice hard drive, comfortable price in amazon.in
4|Very good product and very well organised by Amazon.
5|It is so nice but some difficulty have been instaled
5|its working as expected............ happy to have it
5|Fits in my pocket,fast data transfer and looks cool.
4|BEST PRODUCT AND NICELY WORK, BEST SERVICE BY AMAZON
5|Best portable HDD, easy transfer, Fast and reliable.
5|The hdd was excellent n d amazon's service was aazo
5|Completely satisfied. Getting 80Mbps on USB 3 port.
4|Very good product ....cloud backup need improvement
5|Nice products reach before time great job done
5|Excellent design speed of transfer rate and deliver
5|Great Speed If Using in 3.0 Port. Speed is 100MB/S.
4|Using for last one year no issue. Very good product
5|Delivered on time. It's working great. No problems.
5|Excellent... delivry was too fast. Satisfied..
5|Great product in fair price & i highly recommend :)
4|Wonderful device with great speed of data transfer.
5|A must buy for everyone... Extremely Satisfied. :-)
5|Good product.. Same as described.. Nice packaging..
5|Excellent product from Seagate. Works like a charm.
3|Its okay... by connections could be made better....
5|very good product by seagate on amazon..it so slim.
5|Perfect size and data transfer rate is very good...
4|This product is very good i mhappy with seagate....
5|Seagate thats it as the name indicates......Awesome
4|working good. but warranty is showing 4 months less
5|Slim and light. Easy to carry and good performance!
5|Product - Very Good Performance, Delivery also Good
5|In time delivery from the seller. Good product
4|Works great......1 star deducted for packaging. ...
5|Brilliant product and moreover, Amazons awesome!!!!
5|It's nice piece and supported by your good company.
5|Very sleek, portable and it got delivered very fast
5|Soiled quality and beautiful design....... Love it.
5|No doubt a genuine product and delivered on time :D
5|Awesome product with Awesome price. Simply love it.
5|The best Portable hard drive in this price bracket.
5|Delivered quickly. Neat package and capable device.
5|Product is excellent & sleek.. Hope a good choice..
5|Nice. Slim and very fast. Everyone should buy this.
5|Really a very good deal. A fast and better HDD>
5|Worth Buying it, My kids liked it, Great deal i got
5|Very slim and original product on this price range.
5|Excellent for usage for professionals like me... :)
3|Delivery was late and had to follow up for delivery
5|Excellent and sleek looks, supplied with USB cable.
5|As expected. The right device at the promised price
5|Using this past 1 month....and work like charm.....
4|it looks too good if it was in single colour (BLUE)
5|Amazing speed on my Mac... Good portable and sturdy
4|Amazing product. Amazing performance. Simply luv it
5|It is very good for backup & good service of Amazon
5|Awesome device ....very fast delivery by amazon !!!
5|awesome product...........gr8 service by AMAZON !!!
5|I got the genuine product. Meet my fully expection.
5|Just As expected! Amazing color and prompt delivery
5|good product and chief and best and genuine product
5|Got in just 7K. Amazing price, delivery and quality
1|No I am not satisfied at all.. In fact it had stopped working one day after I received it.. And I can't even getting any response from segate and amazon after this problem.. They say we are not responsible for your data that you have transfered into the device. And I have transfered many if my important data into it. I am very dissapointed from this.. Please help me into this matter... Please...
5|seaGate is always recommend.. even if at a premium
5|Awesome product, It is slim, small, light weight..
5|Good product..got next day...very fast shippment..
5|Awesome product. Very cute looking. Easy to carry.
5|Nice Product,Timely Delivered,Very Much satisfied.
5|Worth to buy...I bought this in deal of the day...
5|Using for last 6 month.. No any issue faced yet.!!
4|after using for even 1-2 hours, starts heating up.
5|All memory in one store.. Having good experience..
4|Must buy this if want to take backup of your data.
5|A really good product , but price is slightly high
4|Very high quality in all aspects. Value for money.
5|it is really a slim hard disk and looks very sexy.
5|Very Good Product and delivery before agreed time.
5|Simply go for this product!!! Excellent product!!!
5|awesome really liked it and the model is very sexy
4|Got it delivered in 24 hours. It works good..
5|It's compact and there had been no issues till now
5|Good product, supports TV and all with no hiccups.
5|NICE LOOKING..QUITE HANDY AND SMALL.EXCELLENT ONE.
5|Nice. It's running well. It's been almost 6 months
5|Such a small one in 1TB section... i am impressed.
5|Very Useful product. Excellent delivery by Amazon.
5|Nice portable good looking and effective..Arup Kar
5|Product is slim and cost is less compare to others
4|very nice product. but could not connect to cloud.
5|Excellent product!! Thanks for your service!!
5|Very good and very useful item.Excellent delivery.
5|Got it for 6250 rupees from Amazon. Excellent HDD.
5|slim and portable with high speed of data transfer
5|Excellent product. Amazon delivery is really fast.
5|very good product .quick delivery.thanks to amazon
4|Product delivered as promised ..good job by amazon
4|It sleek and smart. Completely met my requirement.
5|HD is slim as told and the product is as expected.
5|Awesome Product and Exceptional delivery by Amazon
5|Nice and handy device, sleek too. Fast trànsfer.s.
4|Good Buy!! Compact and sleek.Suits my requirement.
5|It's working very nice and received good piece too
4|good to use and response from seagate is also good
5|Handy, slim and backups data fast..goodbye to use.
5|Fast delivery service and product is 100% genuine.
3|usb 3.0 cable that came with seagate 2tb stdr2000300 is faulty.otherwise 2TB external HDD works fine with lowest speed ever. during transfer it only gives maximum 42MB/s speed. (with faulty wire that came with package) i have old seagate with usb 3.0. i used that old cable usb 3.0 and getting 135MB/s superfast speed please check cable. new cable looks good but it is damn faulty. please exchange it
5|Nice prodeuct for usage. it very useful for my external storage of my movies, songs, games and etc.. thanks for the product..
5|I have copied 1GB data in 2mins.. product is good
4|Its good to use there is no problem in My product
4|Good service with quality product with low price.
4|Good product.. how to register for the warranty ?
4|Till now working fine and speed of copy also good
4|The product is as expected and delivered on time.
5|Perfecto... Is the only word of course until now
5|Go for it yaar. Handle with care..quite delicate.
5|Excellent performance. Very satisfy with product.
4|Reached on time and sleek hdd. Loved the product.
5|Handy and good transfer rate and worth for money.
5|Slim storage device,very handy, it's a performer.
5|It is really portable and a nice to have product.
4|Nice hard disk. But port is loose within a month.
4|More attractive offers on such products requested
5|Its really worth to buy. Absolutely portable one.
4|Awesome!! sleek and very stylish..great quality..
5|compact and great write speed 60mbps approx.
5|must bye this product. Portable and small in size
4|its good but little dissappointment with the rate
5|Working as expected. Data transfer rate is good.
5|Nice device ...... Using for one month......
5|Small,fast,stylish and what not? Crazy product :)
5|Excellent Product. Everything As per description.
5|Lovely external hard disc at this amazing price.
4|Excellent product but delivery can be made faster
4|good service from amazon and good product as well
5|Good product and genuine sale .... Quick delivery
4|its good and genuine product. good work amazon.:)
5|I totally agree with the function of the product.
5|very handy. nice looking. transfer speed is fast.
4|It is very slim and light weighted...good for use
5|Very good. Appreciate quick delivery from Amazon.
5|Very compatible and very well transmitting speed.
5|Very compatible and very well transmitting speed.
5|Fantastic product and excellent Amazon Experience
5|Great product using from 1 month Good speed
5|Product is just awesome..must purchase if needed
5|very good product and good service by cloudtail.
5|Light weight and very handy. Highly Recommended.
5|Fast hard drive . Found it better than my WD 2tb
5|It is slim and faster. Nice product as if now...
4|Very light weight & compact, durable & reliable.
5|Perfect For Backup...Small Compact n Easy to use
1|A lot of people complaining about it . . . why??
5|It is the slimmest hard disc than the normal one
1|Problem with the cable, its not working properly
5|One of the sleek design available in the market.
5|very small... and good... but looks very fragile
5|Very Good and very sleek. Faster transfer rate.
4|Superb performance, light weight, easy to handle
5|very good product and delivery on time.... :) :)
4|Its good can be connected anywhere speed is good
5|This is very good gadgets. The speed is awesome.
5|ABSOLUTE DELIGHT..FAAAASSSTTTT....SLEEK...LOVELY
5|Nice product...slim n light weight easy to carry
5|Good product. Light, compact. No problem so far.
5|Delivered on time. Packing quality is good.
5|its as per my expectation , received within time
4|It's sleek and I got it on a great offer. Happy!
4|Very Good Product..Packaging everything is Good.
4|NIce Look n good product till now no any problem
5|Excellent quality product. Best price on Amazon.
5|The best to buy I Amazon. 100% - 5*
4|nice product am happy with shipping process
4|Very Good product Delivery much before time
4|Good to buy it. Excellent design and performance
4|Happy with It and appreciate the timely delivery
5|Really good product with slim and metalic finish
5|its very good product and got it in a best price
5|v goood product,,fast delivery by amazon asusual
5|Superb product...and prompt delivery from Amazon
5|Very good product, slim n stylish, worth buying.
5|Express fast service and loved the product.....
5|Seagate is the best and this one is awesome....
5|The slimmest(Really slim). The fastest.The best
5|Loved it. Packing could be improved a little...
4|good one though i had to buy a cover separte;y
5|Got it in a lightening deal ...genuine product!
4|Nice product and no issues since last 4 months.
5|Small and elegant can even carry in pocket
1|I am sirry to say but It was a fake product....
5|Nice product! Quite satisfied using it so far..
5|A good handy product. And quite compact as well
4|nice one with good speed and less memory error
5|Workings good come with 200GB One drive storage
5|Slim and portable, just like the name suggests.
5|small easy to carry pocket size n fast.nice buy
4|the product is very light weight slim and good.
5|Liked it.btful coloutr. Transfer speed is good.
5|A good product to buy..dont hesitate..go for it
5|Excellent product. Exactly met the requirement.
5|Very good and slim product for external storage
5|It's soo nice, compact with better performance.
5|Low cost and genuine product.can fit in pocket.
4|Good price. Quick delivery !!!!. Really good...
4|great quality,fully satisfied with the product.
4|Slim is good in both appearance and performance
5|Small size, Great Transfer speed, Plastic Body.
5|have been using one month ,there is no problemo
3|its good, low cost and good speed and very slim
5|Excellent drive as expected. Quick delivery. :)
5|item is as described and delivered with in time
5|Amazing....to buy with amazon.with ..best deal.
5|Slim to keep, swift at work. Loved the product.
5|The best u can get wrt the prica and capacity..
5|Good deal and nice product...worth every penny.
5|Its sheer value for money with price they sold.
5|performance good, stylish look and very comfort
4|Item is very good. Fast data rate :) I like it.
4|the cable with it i found is very much small...
4|Happy with the delivery system and the product.
5|Excellent delivery service and awesome product.
5|The product is good....vry small in size..cute.
5|The first look of it will make you utter wao.. Amazing product..too fast in speed and style is so decent that you will love to carry with you always.. Was just little concern taking product warranty as I saw many reviews posted with warranty issues, But I didn't found any such. And Ill rate it 5 out of 5. Good product you must go with this.
5|pros: slim, good built quality, speed [usb 2.0=30-50mb/sec; usb-3.0= 40-100mb/sec], 3yrs warranty, no sound n heating issue. cons: port is little loose, full hard disk is not made up of metal (only the top part is made up of metal, rest is fiber) Recommendation: buy from "infiniti seller" :) because it has 1-2% neg feedback :P
5|Advantages: Compact size I am watching movies from it and It never gets interrupted - Good Access It can take backup of Mobile phone contacts, messages etc. It is not heating up. Disadvantages Copy speed 20-25 Mbps in USB 2.0 USB Cable is short. I like this HDD ...... already stored 700gb data in one week
5|Best Deal ever, Its Too good, Worth purchasing
3|Speed is low Not getting 3 year online support
5|Got great deal...!! I am happy. Thanks Amazon.
5|the hard drive looks awesome, works flawlessly
3|what about warranty in India for this product.
4|Good, delivery on time and product as desired.
5|It is one of the best hard disk in the market.
5|As always Seagate backup hard disk are amazing
5|This Stuff is Awesome at This Price! Must Buy!
4|A bit slow sometimes.. Overall worth the money
5|Awesome, very Slim Indeed! Great product!
5|Its very good. Thanks Amazon for special deal.
3|Good product with bad transportation services
5|I like the and faster delivery than given date
4|Worth for the price and delivered before time.
4|Purchased it for my daughter; works well. Good
4|This product is good; Amazon delivery is good.
4|Good Slim Hard Disk. Good Data transfer speed.
5|I just love the compact size and built quality
1|The Hard disk got faulty after 6 months of use
5|VERY GOOD DEVICE But handle crefully
5|I have purchased one year back it is very good
4|Good product on the line and delivery in time.
5|Excellent product and received with in 3 days.
5|very compact and best within this price range.
5|Works as expected. Very good n genuine product
5|Very good product. Working nice, love Seagate.
5|Lightening fast data trasfer. Slim and sturdy.
5|Awesome deal and least price among all e-store
4|Looks sleek,handly n classy.. Worth buying!!!!
5|Awesome speed transfer! Better than WD I Feel.
5|WITH IN TIME WE HAVE RECEIVER AND WORKING FINE
4|Very slim as the name suggests.its a good buy.
5|nice product with good and slim build quality.
5|Very useful. Slim. Light weight. And portable.
4|Delivered as committed nie parking great offer
5|Superb product.... Full utilisation of money..
4|We could not able to copy bulk data at a time.
5|Very good. Thin, compact and and.. Simply good
5|Excellent product.Excellent service by Amazon.
5|Better than seagate expansion . only 4200 rs .
3|good product and product delivery is too bad..
5|It is as per my expectations. Thanks to Amazon
5|Very Good product. Slim and compact Hard disk.
4|Great Product....Slimmest & Sexiest of all....
4|Its a pocket full deal.... I like it very much
5|Good product at affordable price.Recommended:)
5|Excellent design and super speed transfer rate
5|Very good drive with good speeds on USB 2.0. Did not test the USB 3.0 speeds. It is very sleek and very light. The edges are perfectly curved and the overall body is sqaurish that makes it look super slick. A great hard drive from Seagate after doling out those big bully Go-Flex ones. If you are looking for form factor and ease-of-carry, go for this one.
5|amazing 1
5|excellent
1|I bought this around 4 months back and have used it only 3 times to take backup. Now without reason the hard disk just seems to have stopped working. I tried on 2 machines it does not get detected at all and on one machine only the driver icon is available. But you cannot access the contents of the disk. What use the backup when I cant access it
5|Works like a charm with both windows and mac!
4|got the product at its best price.. Thanks :)
5|Very good product, shipping was also on time.
4|So far so good... I m using it frequently...
4|data transfer is fast . slim and easy to cary
5|Good one received from cloudtail. Thanks
5|This product help me a lot for saving my Data
5|A good and stable product. Fairly priced too.
5|I received a quality product well in time. :)
4|Till now(3 months almost) it is working fine.
5|good product, delivered before expected date.
5|Looks good, works great! I have two of these!
5|Nice hard disk. Compact and beautiful design.
5|Best buy. Amazing quick delivery from Amazon.
4|so far good. we have to see how long it lasts
4|quite happy with product delivery and quality
5|Just love it....It is working fine as of now.
5|Awesome product & great serviced by Amazon...
4|Good one take it when available with discount
5|Good product....living up to the expectations
5|Product is a awesome. Also Amazon is great.
5|excellent product and delivered within 24 hrs
5|very good product...compatible with all OS...
4|Nice slip product....easy to fit on ur pocket
4|Its good, portable, file transfer was so fast
5|Awesome design, look and light weight too ...
5|The product is best but service is also good.
5|Extremely nice portable product ! Loved It !!
5|Good product and delivered in good time also.
5|Arrives as promised and in good shape. Thanks
5|I found it really portable with good quality.
5|Slim,fast,works well with both Mac & Windows.
5|Awesome read/write speeds in a small package.
4|Product as described. Worked with mac as well
5|nice one...add a huge storage to your library
5|Again Awesome Product from Seagate...Thums up
3|very slow transfer speed,2-3 mins for GB data
4|A good and safe packing and secured delivery.
4|Missed the chance to buy at 3799 mega sale :(
4|a good product at reasonable price of INR4560
5|Good stuff at good price. No problems so far.
5|good product,nice transfer speed,thanx amazon
5|It is nice and working very well. I liked it.
4|Quality product at the cost of just Rs. 8200.
5|too good.. Its slim and pocket size hard disk
2|Always trusted seagate for its quality and Performance.Hence owning two Seagate harddisks.But this time the Harddisk came with a bill which did not inlcude VAT(Seller:Cloudtail).And so i cannot avail for warranty.Users please ensure that whatever you buy online,it should come with a bill with VAT include else you cannot avail warranty.
5|First of all Thank you Amazon. The same drive was available in market at very high price. And the drive is too good, slim and stylish. The worst thing is the USB Cable which is short but all other things are awesome. The transfer rate is very good, I got (at average) 57.6 mbps. This drive worth price, don't hesitate in buying the same.
4|Seagate has done a pretty awesome job with this. It's a must have companion for laptop users. USB 3.0 along with my Acer Aspire S7's ssd is blazing fast. I've removed one star because the cable connecting the Backup Slim is somewhat loose. If I move it around, it gets disconnected at times. Quite bugging if you're on a moving vehicle.
1|Regrettably a malfunctioning EHD reached me.
5|Slim, beautiful & useful storage .... thanks
4|Nice Finishing, Speed is good, Light Weight
5|Last 8 months....there have been no problem.
1|free 200 GB cloud storage is not accessible.
5|Awesome product . Got it at a superb prize !
5|Great and compact size product from seagate.
4|Good and satisfactory service...excellent!!!
5|Good product with excellent delivery service
5|Good product and received in good condition.
1|I got product is seal broken conditions.. ..
4|product is good but delivery time is slow...
5|The External hard disk is fast, easy to use.
5|It is a very good product,so handy and fast.
5|One of the best hard drives i have recieved.
5|Works perfect. Looks perfect. So far So good
4|Flawless as expected from seagate. Good one.
5|This is good, product , service and delivery
4|Its good product. Fulfilled my requirements.
4|Good performance. Good speed. Small &Compaq.
4|Sleek design, fast and beautifully designed.
1|Very bad there is no warranty card in packeg
5|Slim . awesome hard disk @ reasonable price.
5|Great product....... Small and portable
4|Slim body, Light weight, fast copy. Good....
4|It's nice, easy to use and compact in design
5|usb 3.0 slim.... and really smart looking...
5|Compact one and reliable with 3 yrs warranty
4|performance is good. product is as expected.
5|Nice product, good service! Totally worth it
4|It's looking so slim and good performance...
4|Very good original product, on time delivery
4|Delivery was at snail pace, product is good.
5|Good Product, value for money, Fast shipping
5|It's super slim and does its job seamlessly.
5|Nice product.worth buying it.go for it guys.
4|Products is good. Delivery is toooooooo late
5|Good one, very slim, transfer speed is good,
4|Very good product . Working absolutely fine.
3|copying speed is just 15 to 20 mb per second
5|Simply Awsummmm..loved It...seagate rocks.!!
5|excellent product at the best online price!!
5|Got the product as expected on expected time
5|This one is very slim any any other 1TB EHD.
5|I very much satisfied with HDD. Very nice product. Compact, easy to handle, good build quality. USB 2.0 transfer speed around 30-35 MBPS USB 3.0 Transfer speed around 80 MBPS. Cable length is Okay Okay. Sometime i feel it is bit shorter. As far as Amazon's delivery service is concerned i am giving 9 out of 10 !!!
5|Excellent product and delivery also on time
5|Good product.. A good buy at a good price.
4|Slim and Beautiful with excellent Quality
4|Very Good Product. Spped is also quite okay
4|Good product and Amazon shopping is nice :)
4|It's really slim and performance is better.
5|Great product !! Excellent transfer speed .
4|Did not find any issues, works as expected.
5|absolutely fine ...definitely recommended..
4|good hdd sometimes it disconnects while use
4|Item is good but Amazon seller is not good.
5|Seagate is truly the best. Awesome product.
5|Good Product. Works fine. So far no issues.
5|Awesome product as well as courier service.
4|it is a good product for the domestic needs
4|Slim fast and light... Worth at this price.
5|Seagate is my #1 choice for Data Backup :))
4|Product is good and i like the service too.
4|Really an awesome compact storage device :)
4|VERY FAST IN TIME DELIVERY and nice product
5|Compact and lightweight product. Very good.
5|It was great an amazing data transfer speed
5|excellent quality.. superb transfer speed..
1|Its not even a month and it stopped working
5|Very slim and nice looking, truly portable.
4|It is a good product and worth to purchase.
5|Thanks amazon Great hard drive awesome
5|Super service Super model n very handy
4|good product fast delivery thanks
5|Got it for 4200 Rs. Amazing quality. Slim.
5|Great look which is equal to is performance
5|Really satisfied with low price and quality
5|Very good product . small like my cellphone
5|Nice product, good speed and well build (y)
5|i love seagate for its neatness and quality
5|Very small and easy to carry. Great design.
5|very slim, good looking, good speed, ideal.
4|I Like it............ Awesome...
5|Prompt speedy service and very good product
5|The product is nice as the delivery also...
4|Meeting all acceptation. ..timely delivered
4|The Portable drive is performing excellent.
5|Got at reasonable price. Delivery was quick
3|This Product is just ok. Speed is not good.
4|Best in class and ultra light and pocktable
5|Thanks , amazon with Very Good support
4|Good Data backup option for individual use.
5|best hard drive for ever speed 100mbps nice
5|After a lot of research and confusion battling between wd my passport and this one, i chose back-up plus basis reviews, happy now! the Seagate Looks very sleek, love the deep crimson color..I rate the performance to be faster on usb2 also. Tip: Beware, Some tv's don't recognise 2 tb disks, hence best to go for 1 tb.
3|I just bought and using it for past 4days.
5|Very happy with the product &other service
5|Good Product at good price. Thanks Amazon.
5|Product is as shown on site. Good service.
5|Small & Fast Amazon Delivery was good
5|Works well, compact and fast data transfer
5|This is the product as expected, go for it
5|Really very nice hard disk easy and simple
3|Nice but difficult to register 200gb cloud
5|best hardisk i can transfer data very fast
1|it detaches automatically in a few mins :(
4|Transfer rate is average and overall good.
4|also seagate is work excellent good result
5|Awesome product. everyone should have this
1|Was damaged within five months of purchase
5|its orignal & good service by amazon india
4|Initial seems good; don't have any problem
5|Amazing product! Complete value for money!
4|Nice drive.Working good.No problem........
5|Quick Delivery. Product was upto the mark.
5|Good product and good service from Amazon.
4|Color is superb, didnt find any drawbacks.
4|This is 2nd one I ordered for my daughter.
4|Nice, slim and sleek performance hard disk
5|Awesome product as it is seagate product .
5|very speed, and slip, light weight product
5|working fine and prompt delivery by amazon
5|Very thin and good looking I loved it
5|Best portable Hard disk i had ever seen...
4|all items are good and useful all the time
5|very good hard disk and very fast delivery
5|IT VERY SLIM AND WEIGHT LESS PRODUCT THK U
5|Very useful one and good value foyer money
5|Ots best smaller and best performer drive.
2|i dont get a usb cable with this hard disk
3|i didnt get back my cash back gift vouture
4|Its sleek... truly slim.... and very handy
5|You supply quality products n no cheating.
4|It's nice product with good transfer speed
2|transfer speed is a bit slow than expected
5|really good, works well with time machine.
5|Case is much bigger than the products size
5|Extremely compact and convenient to carry.
4|It is so light and portable.... I love it!
4|Great product, Great service by Amazon...
4|Good Product.......Its Working ...Super...
5|Excellent product.........excellent seller
4|Nice product, it is very slim carry easily
5|Awesome expirence... No complaints!!!
4|Awesome Looks, Awesome Speed, Small Size..
3|Its good
4|I purchased this in July this year for Rs.4039 and now in the Diwali sale the price is Rs.3899. So a net discount of Rs.160 has been given. Its worth buying but Amazon discounts are not that impressive in Sale. This HDD has the capability of backing up over WiFi, making backup from handheld devices easy.
5|Excellent product in an economical price.
5|Very nice ... Excellent service by Amazon
5|Brilliant, very compact, excellent cable.
5|Excellent product, writing speed is good.
5|Very good product at an attractive price.
4|Good product and i got cash back as well.
5|Very nice and good product. Worth buying.
5|good working condition and good rate also
5|I am satisfied with most of the purchases
5|I really liked it. Good service by Amazon
4|compact, functional and really versatile.
4|it was a gift so its ok. i didn't use it.
1|Writing speed is very low wastage of time
5|Best product most beautiful thanks Amazon
1|The logo looks fake. Really disappointed.
5|Small and compact, excellent. I loved it.
5|The item is very good and reasonable rate
5|Fast and reliable. Those words are enough
5|Small, fast and reliable. Just amazing :)
5|Functioning properly till now. No issues.
5|Yes it is very good product as mentioned.
5|Ya i am very much satisfied with product.
5|Superb product. I bought at 10% discount.
2|product is good but i got it seal broken.
5|Excellent Backup for PC & Android mobile.
5|getting good transfer speed and very slim
5|The USB connector could have been better.
4|Fair value for money, very quick delivery
5|Excellent product & good value for money.
5|Really stylish and the price was awesome.
5|Excellent product. Very Reasonable price.
5|Portable, faster and small :D :) loved it
5|Very Good device, USB cable is very small
4|Good Performance!!!. It's worth the money
5|The item I purchased met the reqirements.
5|it is working good as per my requirement.
4|Excellent service and excellent product..
4|V very good product &fast delivery Thanks
5|Very handy and easy to use it for back up
4|Very slim.. With no sound.. Easy to carry
5|Not delivered for ages...check other hdds
5|This is really a good External Hard Drive
5|Amazing Product at Good Price. Satisfied.
5|Nice Product with best price on that Day.
3|It works as it is portrayed. Good product
4|seagate backup plus slim 1tb hard drive is an good product for going upon adv and disadv adv 1. it give gives you the good feel about the product as the hardrive is slim. 2. it is adaptable with mac. 3. it is fast as compared to the previous models. disadv 1. it provides with only 931GB free space for usage Else its a good product worth of its price :)
5|Very nice product and at the best price.
5|Very great product and service by amazon
5|Excellent. Received promptly onthe date.
5|Good product..reached before time.Thanks
5|Good product and got 7 days earlier ??
5|I love this product. Nice small in size.
5|Portable sleek n light weight. Go for it
4|it is good and not faced any problem yet
4|Segate is very good brand with quality..
5|Plenty of storage and fast to recognize.
5|Good product... Meets my expectations...
5|Excellent product and excellently packed
5|No doubt seagate has a class in quality.
4|Nice product. Fullfill your requirements
5|Working great so far- recommend this one
5|Slim, portable and pocket size hard disk
5|I just want to say only one word: Great.
5|Nice product. Looks vry good.
5|Small weight less and cute storage media
5|A super fast device with stunning looks.
5|Very good getting 90 Maps transfer speed
1|Poor performance, getting very hot,
5|Great product and good service by amazon
4|products are good and delivered in time.
5|compact fast handy .... Just what I want
5|awesome product... its really slim.
4|Gud,cheaper than other sites. I geel gr8
5|Its really good and value for the money.
4|Product is awesome and compact to carry.
4|Hd is Compact and fast. Worth the price.
5|Excellent product!! Though not fully red
4|Yes...I like this product very much.....
5|It.s super backup ad nic seagate product
1|The hard disk is asking for formatting.
5|good speed, light weight, best performer
5|Super Slim Product with Super Deal Price
5|good product thank you amazon
5|Both are good, working properly till now
5|Amazingly slim compact beautiful product
4|Good, nice packaging, faster delivery..
5|Excellent product !! Must recommended...
5|good and prompt service by amazon/seller
5|Wonderful slim product and very small...
5|Good Product. Fast Delivery from Amazon.
5|Very nice product at a competitive price
4|overall good... But slow in delivery....
5|Best hard drive in this range. Go for it
4|light weight and compact. easy to carry.
4|only problem data transfer rate is slow.
5|An awesome buy worth every rupee spent.
5|Excellent quality and exemplary service.
4|Sleek, good looking and reasonably fast.
4|NICE PRODUCT..DELIVER IT ON TIME..thanks
5|I Liked the performance, size and color.
4|nice product and and get it on same day.
4|good & slim Hard drive..................
5|Nice & very very handy one.. Very trendy
5|Nice product. I like this product a lot.
4|it really nice and was timely delivered.
4|Small, portable and ultrafast...love it!
5|Very good piece and no issues so far
5|nice stylish, hard disk recommended
4|Affordable &very useful.thanks to Amazon
5|This is by far the best external hard disk drive I have used. I have been using WD ultra and transcend earlier, however, this one stands out of the pack. The transfer speeds is amazing and also this one looks sturdy enough. Thanks to Amazon for delivering it on time.
3|Online purchase good delivery well product all OK but cabal of this segale slim pin very critical pls change general all in one usb pin. This is one of the main Negative point of this product. Iam using this product usb of my tv as well as computer back up....
5|good product, best service from amazon.
5|Seagate is good product & light-handed.
5|Excellent product, quickest delivery :)
4|Worthful product. .I Strongly recommend
5|Totally happy with product and service.
5|very good product. I like it very much.
5|Super HDD from seagate I love very much
5|Awesome product...........working great
5|Has met my expectation and requirement.
5|execclent works both on mac and windows
4|Workin gud Got in good condition
4|So far no issue at all. Just liking it.
1|With in one week hard disk defected....
5|Good product. Serves the purpose so far
5|I bought it 10 months back working fine
1|Not working after 11 months of purchase
5|Best product I ever purchased on amazon
5|Super product ...Good speed and Quality
5|Very good product !! Worth the money !!
4|Faster delivery by amazon. Good product
4|Best Buy HDD in market. Judy go for it.
5|Good product at this price & goodseller
5|Excellent product and wonderful service
5|Was delivered on time... Good product..
5|It's working good, n it looks very good
5|Very good seller. Excellent experience.
5|great product , met my expectation...
5|Working fine and I am satisfied.Thank u
4|No trouble so far and highly recommend.
4|Excellent product and service of Amazon
4|good hard disk. i can suggest to buy it
5|Superb, Very Fast , A very good product
5|Very small and portable. Great product.
5|Nice One. Will buy more if needed.
5|less weight and thinner , good product.
5|Amazing product in this reasonable rate
5|superb disk ...must buy it...!!!!!!!!!!
3|good but it take more days to delivery.
5|Wonderful. Lives up to its expectations
4|Quick Delivery. Very nice product.
5|Excellant service and excellant product
5|amazing delivery time and great product
5|SEAGATE THE NAME IS SUFFICENT, ITS GOOD
5|Awesome one can't express the any word
5|It is a good hard drive for this price
5|No doubt Seagate is best in its class.
5|I am fully satisfied with this product
5|Excellent product and shipping company
1|the product din't work. it was damaged
5|Amazing speed.... Now I think the best
5|YES ITS REALLY WORTH-ABLE FOR THE COST
1|no auto backup, it is weast of buying.
5|Cool design and excellent performance.
5|Very good looking and fast. I love it.
5|Works well. Extremely slim and sturdy.
5|I'm happy with the service and quality
5|Just awesome product at awesome price.
5|Very Good Product on reasonable price.
5|A best buy. True value for your money.
5|Product, offer Price & Delivery - Good
5|Very good at delivery and the product.
5|working good ,,,,,,,an awesome product
5|Good Product from amazon.in. Go for it
5|Delighted With the product and service
5|A very good product...thank you amazon
5|very good product.total worth of price
5|high speed transfer and compact design
5|Nice hard drive. I suggest to buy this
5|Excellent. Original product. Go for it
4|Received the product in good condition
5|Nice and fast.. Great deal from amazon
4|Nice product, works well, worth buying
4|Very handy and reliable storage device
4|Sleek n met all mentioned expectations
4|Still it's working fine.....just Happy
4|Need Password protection rest is good.
5|On time delivered and genuine product!
4|Giving moderate speeds upto 66mbps....
5|good sleek model, which is very useful
5|Excellent Product without any question
5|Data transfer very fast... Super speed
5|Slim, portable, fast - Value for money
5|Excellent product. Highly recommended.
5|GOOD PACKING AND SAFE PRODUCT HANDLING
4|nice product and good service byamazon
4|Excellent item. So light and compact !
4|Awesome! Sleek fast m worth the money.
5|Easy to use and access. Very fast also
5|Very beautiful and my family loved it.
5|good quality product and fast shipping
5|Very nice looking awesome product
5|worth the investment nice speed.......
4|Slim Body, writing speed around 40Mbps
5|Best looking hard drive in the market.
5|Compact and worthy. It is the best 1TB
5|very light and sleek.. value for money
5|ya nyc still it didnt give any problem
5|Excellent item & delivery satisfactory
5|Very satisfactory. And it's beautiful.
3|Product is good. BUT WHY THE HELL IT HAS ONLY 931 GB instead of 1TB. 69 GB is not a easy give a away!!!!! No complaints on Amazon as always its great in its service. They should start looking into the standards of the products they sell to stay top in the market.
5|Awesome
5|Excellent product at reasonable price
5|Fast delivery. Works fine, go for it!
4|very good prodect of good price Nice.
5|Very much satisfied With the product.
5|Nice Product. This is what I wanted.
4|A perfect product for extra storage..
5|Product as described, fast delivered.
4|Good product .... recommend to buy...
5|Very nice product. Looking very cute.
5|Great Product!!!! Great Service!!!!!!
5|Happy with this hard disk, go for it.
5|Good Value for the money spend on it.
5|Very slim with lots of good features.
4|Good and decent product from Seagate.
4|Very good products. Excellent service
4|Compact and nice. Loving it so far...
5|Excellent product and good speed too.
4|A little costly, but a great product.
5|Compact device, nice I/O throughput..
4|The product met with our requirements
5|it's good you can buy it without fear
5|very handy and most useful device....
5|nice product..worth every penny spend
5|great purchase awesome deal at amazon
4|Prompt delivery, product as promised.
2|Will it be compatible with my LED TV?
5|excellent hard disk...works very well
5|Very slim portable. Good warranty too
4|good product and within market range.
4|Compact and sturdy. Worth the price !
5|excellent product.....just awesome...
5|very good product at affordable price
4|Vry compatible..red one looks great..
4|product is good as the delivery......
5|nice external hard disk at good price
5|Light weight & compact. Good product.
5|Good product. Delivered in 1 day
5|Excellent product. Satisfied till now
4|This item good and it's working nice.
5|Hard drive is good and packing also cery good. Work perfectly with my Macbook Air and window pc. Very fast delivery by Amazon even Amazon courier guys work on sunday. That's really amazing. Total worth it and I strongly recommend this product to others. Thanks
5|As everyone already know Seagate is a trusted name when it comes to External Hard Disks. Here is another master piece by it. You will know once you use it. Awesome looks, Ultra compact, Superb performance and above all it will easily fit your packet.
5|Good product. Cable shd be more long
5|Excellent & worth pricing product...
5|Up to date as per seagate reputation
5|Nice service for guaranteed product.
2|Not give that speed that promised...
4|express delivery...very good product
5|Ontime delivery and a great product!
5|Works great with Mac and Windows PC!
5|its good worth of cast.....i love it
5|As for now, it is working all right.
5|It so small and sleek. Plug and play
4|Good product.. Dont get heat up
5|Very much satisfied with the product
5|Awesome... High data transfer speed.
5|Perfect does what is it claims to do
5|Good product. Worth the penny spent.
5|good product....solved the purpose..
4|In time delivery so far so good
4|Nice...small..portable...compact....
1|Does it compatible with windows 8.1
4|Ok with in the time I got delivered.
1|Faulty Product, had to get a refund!
4|Delivered on time. Genuine product.
5|All i can say is, cheap and best :)
4|good product, happy with performance
5|Worth for money. Very good hard disk
4|product met expectation....very good
2|All were good... Except the price...
4|Seagate HDD have no complaints .....
5|Nice product, lean and elegant look.
5|excellent and i love the slim design
5|delivery is fast and product is good
4|Slim and nice looking, working good.
5|Excellent Product......Good speed...
5|I think that would be a great result
4|Working fine... like the product....
5|Worth buying it!!! So far so good...
5|Not just good......its AWWWSSMM !!!!
5|good quality and fast delivery time.
5|Am fully satisfied with the product!
3|It is quite slow in speed for backup
4|Nice product in affordable price....
5|Great Product !! Very Stylish too :)
5|good product..excellent experience..
5|functioning very well with out virus
4|It is very simple and comfort to use
5|brilliant delivery and good product!
5|Good product Delivery was fast
4|good product ..... worth to purchase
5|Very nice product. no issues so far.
5|Good Portable External Hard Drive, Transfer speed is good 27mbps with USB 2.0. Didn't find any heating issues. Transferred 80GB in 1hr. Drive is compatible with my LED TV. Overall very good product, only thing i miss is a more lengthier data cable.
5|prompt delivery & excellent product
5|Amazing product with good quality..
4|Cool looking hard disk from seagate
5|Wow i loved its size, looking cute
5|Good Product,Fast delivery, Thanks.
5|Very good product and fast shipping
4|Go for it awesome hddd slim in size
4|nice one using it from long time...
4|excellent , reached my expectations
5|Pretty small, light and super fast.
4|Very good product n value for money
5|Good one...packaging also very good
5|Very useful for me to keep my files
5|Fast delivery and also working nice
5|Good build quality, light and slim.
4|Nice design and quite good looking!
4|Good product to buy. I like it !!!!
4|its good in quality and performance
4|good quality and nice packing......
4|Great product...slim as described..
5|so compact like a phone. Awesome..!
5|very good product, received at time
5|I am very happy with this products.
5|Good product excellent performance.
5|Nice design and works like a charm.
5|Thank you, amazon. Awesome product.
5|Inbilt secured your data and backup
5|It is very slim and easy to handle.
4|delivered before the said date.Nice
5|A good compact external hard drive.
4|Very Good Product Compare to others
5|Excellent and gud pack up by Amazon
4|Awesome product.. Just love it.. :)
3|Nice hard disc in affordable price.
4|Very nice and easy to carry product
4|design is super awesome..works well
5|Brand style light n easy to handle.
5|nice performance and swift delivery
4|Good..Product..Sleek..and...durable
4|nice product. no issues. i like it.
5|Good qaulity stuff....very compact.
5|Best product . BEST PRICE AT AMAZON
4|good product..true worth for money.
4|Best price at best product. Buy itZ
5|Got what I wanted for office thanks
5|Its excellent and worth buying.....
4|Really compact and value for money.
5|everything as specified. Works fine
5|A good product with prompt delivery
5|Very good product at perfect price.
5|very Light slim and works very fine
5|Nice product. ...very fast delivery
4|The product is good u can purchase.
5|Superb hard disk..working very good
5|Great design and great performance.
4|The best product in less price...:)
4|i didn't get carrycase for harddisk
5|Awesome product.. compact and handy
4|Its really good..delivered in 1 day
5|Best to meet my expectation .......
4|Great Product, Great delivery exp !
5|Works as advertised - no complaints
2|transfer rate is as good as i think
5|Excellent. Fits in my front pocket.
5|Slim and Sturdy... with good speed
5|Working well. So far no complaints
5|Good product. Good transfer speed.
5|Nice quality and delivered in time
5|this deal was a steal. gr8 product
5|Slim and compact, avg speed 50MB/s
5|Quick Transfer backup will be fast
4|Working great, delivered next day.
5|Nice product..Met the expectation.
5|Slim and nice look.. thankz amazon
5|A great product. slim and elegant.
5|Good product and works nice so far
4|Product is good at very low prices
4|NA: Pls ignore my earlier comment.
5|Amazing product. Totally worth it!
5|Good delivery and awesome product.
5|Product is as per quoted on Amazon
5|Good Product and works as expected
5|Great product with 3 year warranty
5|very compact and useful unit .....
5|its very slim and hence i like it.
5|Excellent in transfering the files
5|looking good transfer speed superb
5|Great product with affordable cost
5|Its really good product. I like it
5|Best Product i receive from amazon
4|Good product. A little overpriced.
4|Good product and quick delivery...
4|works like a charm. And superfast.
5|It is excellent. Thanks to amazon.
4|Ligtweight and works like a charm.
5|so far so good. Delivered on time.
5|Excellent device. Reliable seller.
5|Very very good product of segate..
5|Good one......the name says it all
4|Very compact and not heavy at all!
5|Product was delivered as committed
5|Like it..Good look...very slim....
5|Nice Product. seriously go for it!
5|nice product and fastest delivery
4|Good choice to buy it from amozon.
4|Nice product ... small and simple
4|Nice Product at a reasonable price
5|Good Speed & i like Slick design..
5|Excellent drive. Very easy to use.
4|nice one from Amazon...i like it..
5|Excellent drive nice and very slim
5|Great product at a very good rate.
4|Simple and straightforward to use!
5|It fully come up to my acceptation
5|Very good product thanks to amazon
4|good product.i recommend it fully.
5|it is according to my expectation.
4|Keep price low otherwise very good
5|Worth buying, Its really slim
5|Gud one with the reasonable price.
4|It's fast and handy...also robust.
5|Awesome delivery- Awesome Product.
5|Best product with affordable price
4|affordable, good quality, genuine.
5|Good product. Serves what I want.
5|Good product and prompt delivery.
5|very slim and very easy to set up
4|I have used just used and is o.k.
4|it does what it is supposed to do
5|Excellent product prompt delevery
4|Nice Backup Slim 1 TB external HD
3|Not supported to my ONIDA LCD TV.
5|i recommended this product to all
5|Its altogether a great experience
5|products are excellent and useful
5|Good. Received in good condition.
4|As of yet working fine, no issues
5|Good product and on time delivery
4|its working good...worth ur money
5|Excellent this is my second piece
5|good....... absolutely no hassles
5|fast service and supabbb products
5|working very good.......i like it
4|nice performance thanks to amazon
5|Nice deal from amazon. I loved it
5|Lightweight and good performance.
5|very good product. Go for it.....
5|very good performance..Very handy
5|External package seal was broken.
5|Nice and genuine Seagate HDD....
4|Slim Yet Powerful. Weightless....
4|its nice product for data backup.
5|I like it. Its too slim and nice.
5|Slim, Portable & Good Performance
5|no need for further explaination.
4|Working really nice , ... Love it
2|This is not a faithfully product.
4|Received before time and good one
5|really slim and very good product
5|just great. no issues as of date.
5|Excellent product and performance
5|Awesome Product easy carry..
5|good high quality item good speed
5|Lightweight, great size! Best HDD
5|amazing product good service
5|Working fine Shipped in time
5|Wonderful product ... loved it :)
5|Good product and timely delivery.
2|bakuptakes a long time very slow.
5|Good, and Amazon give best price.
5|working good , in-time delivery.
5|Got on time. Product as expected
5|Right product for right price...
5|Great product. Simply loved it !
4|The Product is good and excelent
5|Amazing product. I RECOMND THIS!
5|Very Nice and Excellent Product.
5|? guanine product thanks amazon
5|Nice to carry and easy ro access
5|Nice Looking nd good quality Hd.
4|Timely delivery and as described
5|Really slim and value for money.
1|A defective piece was delivered.
5|The best drive I've used so far.
4|good but comparatively expensive
3|Good one, no issues as of now...
5|Very nice product, recommend it!
4|Very good product slim and fast.
5|excellent product for my macbook
4|Good product, very slim and cute
5|Awesome yr..... I m really happy
5|Good,delivery fast,100mbps speed
5|Does what it is supposed to do?
5|THE PROMISING PRODUCT EVER!!!!!!
5|Slim, handy & awesome product...
4|Hi its good and compact nice one
5|Thanks!! Keep up the Good work!!
4|Very Fast to reading and writing
4|Bought it at good price..Happy..
5|Good product and amazon service.
4|Nice product....Best delivery...
4|True to its name,Safety vs speed
4|Seagate dashboard using high cpu
5|Working well.No complain so far.
5|Best Quality Hard Disk. Love it.
5|compact powerful easy to use....
5|Its a great piece. Thanks amazon
5|Data Transfer speed a bit issue.
4|Good product...nice service.. :)
5|Product is good and fine working
5|Looks Pretty and working well !!
5|I would recommend this to others
5|Good.. Sleek.. Value for money..
4|Good product...delivered on time
2|Some time not detecting properly
4|Good one at competitive rate....
4|Excellent Product by Seagate....
4|I am satisfied with the product.
5|Awesome product Worth the price.
4|Good product and prompt delivery
5|a perfect one,handy, weight less
5|Great product and great service.
4|Yes, very satisfied with product
4|Very useful and convenient tool.
5|Very nice and attractive colour!
5|Seagate USD 3 HDD a good product
5|Superb Product...Superb Delivery
5|Very good product, thanks Amazon
5|Brilliant stuff , great price !!
1|The product is good but I cannot register the product online as it says product number mentioned in the item is wrong. I tried several times but it says same thing.I doubt whether it is genuine or not!!!!!?
5|Good product with great offers.
5|I liked it Thumbs up !!!!!!!!!!
4|Item supplied meets requirement
5|Product is good @geniune price.
5|Excellent Product and service..
4|Fast delivery. Correct product.
5|It's good.. Liked it very much.
5|Product is inline.prompt saler.
4|Great to use. Purpose fulfilled
5|best product at affordable cost
4|excellent product, recommended.
4|it was awesome just as hoped...
5|Good product... worth the money
4|Very small and compact. Love it
5|Very slim and working perfectly
5|Good brand and reliable product
4|received perfectly; workig fine
4|Delivered on time it is working
5|As expected excellent product..
4|Good,but speed not as expected.
4|Data transfer rate is very slow
5|Satisfied with its performance.
5|Good product. On time delivery!
4|Till date it's working fine....
5|Very much useful,fast and handy
5|Good Product, Happy to have it.
5|Its the best among all hardisk.
5|Sleek, excellent build quality.
5|Good service. Much appreciated.
5|Good Product. Received on time.
5|Fast Read/Write and looks nice!
4|It's good.. Light weight, slim
5|Very compact and easy to carry.
4|Speed is perfect fast go for it
5|Excellent product, worth to buy
5|Good product & prompt delivery.
5|Very slim loved it. Very light.
5|Very good product..great price.
5|Very good product ,good looking
5|Nice one. Can recommend others.
4|Very compact. Good performance.
5|Extremely satisfied with this..
5|Very slim and good performance.
4|Good one storage and speedwise.
5|excellent and pocket compatable
5|It is portable and working fine
5|Simple, Lightweight and Perfect
5|Excellant product correct price
4|Gud product at reasonable price
5|Fast delivery and best quality.
5|NICE EXHDD.... PAISA VASUL
5|Great product.....good delivery
2|I am not happy with the product
5|Good quality brand new product.
5|amazing seller amazing harddisk
5|The product was excellent......
5|prompt delivery of good product
4|good one... very slim and cute.
5|It is gr8 by look & performance
4|very convenient handy and fast!
5|very good product and best deal
5|Good quality product & reliable
5|Compact 1TB. Excellent product!
5|Very slim & best for the price.
3|Data transfer rate is very slow
5|Awesome product. Speed 120 mbps
5|Best buy at reasonable price...
3|Packing is not good and secure.
5|Any person willing 2 buy can simply buy without any hesitation & the drive is very fast in coping USB cable with more length would have made more happy 2 end users but any way no regrets/complaints/Cons
5|
5|good i hv ordered it and it delivered after 7 days......a little slow in delivering............but the product is good ............and safe than any other brand ........the price is nominal ........
5|Great product and performance.
5|Good product. reached in time.
4|good product. worth the price.
5|i like it mu hard disk seagate
4|Great Service and Good Product
1|The product failed in 4 months
5|Nice product quickly delivered
5|Awesome product from Seagate..
5|Fast. Slim. Reliable. Awesome.
5|Excellent Product and Delivery
5|Its a nice and a great product
5|Good product and good service
5|Fast shipping and nice product
5|Very good experience! Instant.
5|Good quality and good delivery
4|Nyc. Should buy it if required
5|It's a great one from seagate,
5|Really slim and user friendly.
5|Excellent speeds. Lightweight.
5|It's using perfectly I like it
4|Working satisfactorily so far.
4|It's good.. (Y) Fair deal.. :)
5|It's good.. sleek and Compaq..
4|Good one.but low build quality
5|its lovely product of himalaya
5|It is very good external drive
4|Good Product, So far no issues
5|Excellent product, high speed
4|good piece worth for the price
4|Nice Product..! Just Buy it..!
4|It's a good product by seagate
5|Good product, in time delivery
5|It can't get better than this!
5|nice.. slim...value 4 money...
5|Sleek, fast and superb quality
5|nice one good looks works well
5|Nice Product ! Nice Delivery !
5|Very nice and worth I got 3238
4|nice product working fine
5|Slim and nice support software
5|very good product thnx #amazon
5|Seagate slim for a good price.
5|Very Slim and awesome product.
3|Its nice device working wellll
5|Very sleek and highly portable
5|Good, Awesome nice performance
4|Very good.......... hard disc.
5|amazing experience with amezon
5|Super hard drive and very nice
5|Great product. Must have......
4|ITS WORKING AWESOME ,GO FOR IT
3|Nice product with great looks.
5|Best product in best price....
5|gud product .got it ontime txs
5|Good ............ Very Good...
5|Very slim and handy hard disk.
5|Perfectly fits the requirement
4|Product and packeging was good
4|Sleek and cute and work nicely
1|Stopped working after 1month of usage. Also was not able to verify the warranty details on seagate website. Thanks to Amazon for return policy as I was able to return the product for full refund.
5|Good product and awesome deal
5|Excellent product...A++++++++
4|Good deal for a good product.
5|Awesome product from Seagate.
5|Good product. Worth it buying
4|Nice and Lightweight Product.
5|Very Gud Delivery time...Nice
5|Good service.....best product
5|High speed data transfer.good
3|It's worthful for that price
5|Fast delivery.. nice product.
5|Excellent product.and service
5|it was as described by amezon
5|Good product,timely delivery,
4|Good look and its very useful
4|With this price it is not bad
5|The product is really good...
5|awesome and good device ...!!
5|Serving all my storage needs.
4|Good product, value for money
4|Good one of the best products
5|excellent product & delivery.
4|Good product. Worth for price
4|Good product. Work perfectly!
5|As described and good quality
5|As of now it is working fine.
5|Nice buid and awesome product
5|great performence and service
5|Totally up to expectations :)
4|Nice product, worth the money
5|Ultimate product and service.
4|Nice product and light weight
5|Good price & Best Performance
5|Fine product.vallu for money.
4|Good quality product and slim
4|Fast delivery... Nice product
4|Very slim hdd and pretty good
5|Write your review here-good!!
5|Very good product and service
5|nice lightweight hard drive..
5|gud one with affordable price
5|Works great. Fully satisfied.
4|Nice product Prompt delivery.
5|Gud thing at a very gud price
5|its awesome ppl really try it
4|very cost effectively priced.
5|faster smarter and lighter...
4|It is good and sleek product.
5|good prize , prompt delivery.
4|Timely delivery...as promised
5|Got it for good price. thanks
5|superb external drive so far.
5|Good Product at good price ..
5|Good product. Value for money
5|Good product - Quick delivery
5|excellent external hard drive
5|Worth of money. Good product.
5|Best price. top copying speed
4|loved it...!! good finish..!!
5|the best with price and brand
4|Good backup for my system ...
4|It's worth the money I spent.
5|Product quality is very nice.
5|Handy and performance is good
5|Good Product with low price .
5|Working and Size is very good
5|Amazing Product from seagate.
5|Works Nice No problem at all.
5|No issues with the hard disc.
5|Excellent data transfer speed
5|Amazing product and good deal
5|Very Good product. Nice price
5|Excellent product. Works well
5|Nothin to say coz its seagate
3|Good one but not the best one
5|Very slim, its worth of cost.
4|it's a good product as usual.
5|Nice Product. Look is awesome
5|great build, quality product!
5|Nice product coupled with very efficient delivery by Amazon. Hard drive looks beautiful and you can't resist to look at again-n-again. Performance wise so far has worked very smooth.
4|Got the beat price 3999 with 400 cash bck and authentic product., thanks to amazon.. Hve been using for past 4-5 no the issues ever. Segate is the best when it comes to hard disk...
4|I am happy to purchase it and the size is so slim and compact than i am easily carrying this in my shirt pocket. Hard disks when manufactured Slim and trim can look beautiful too!!!
4|Product is good and meet the expectations but the data cable disconnects with a very small movement, hence every time device need to be kept in steady position.... its irritating .
5|Seagate's Backup Plus = you may use the Seagate's backup software to automatically backup your computer data to this hard drive on schedule basis. Slim = it really is a slim ext. hard drive. Apart from being a decent, slim, backup, external HDD, there are a few other things that are worthy of mentioning about the device. It operates on your Computer's USB power with the help of a supplied, short USB 3.0 cable (backwards compatible); no other external power source needed. Despite extended periods of data transfer between a computer and the hard drive, the HDD wasn't very hot. The 3 years limited warranty by Seagate is kind of a life saver, should the device malfunction. How effective their support / service is, only the ones who contact them will know. Data transfer rates are only bottlenecked by your computer's USB port / controller. This is a USB 3.0 device, and connecting it to one such port is what gives you the best performance; whatever it is capable of. Unfortunately, I haven't run a benchmark test on it to analyze its data transfer speeds. I will update the same when I do it. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- UPDATE (20-Jan-2016) It has now been 10 months since I purchased this hard drive. A problem has arisen and the problem is that the drive does not populate in the "My Computer" window in order to access the drive. The volume does not populate in the device properties under "Device Manager" (on both, Windows XP Pro 32 bit and Windows 7 Ultimate x64). I have written about the same to Seagate support and I'm waiting for their response. I'm not sure if it is the fault of the USB port on the computer, or if it is actually the hard drive. I will update my review again in a few days to let you all know what happens. P.S. I was able to register my hard drive on Seagate's product registration site. Although it displays a different model number during the registration, it did not reject the serial number.
5|I am using this drive for almost 6-7 months and had no issues so far. I use this drive to store mass media like music, photos, videos, bulk files and backup. This way, I keep my laptop running fast by avoiding populating the internal hard drive. I am getting a average data transfer rate of about 50 to 80 Mbps on USB 3.0 and 10 to 40 Mbps on USB 2.0. I read other people's reviews that the drive often disappears from My Computer but this is not the case. If there is no activity, the drive goes in sleep mode but whenever a call is made, the drive automatically wakes up from sleep. Note: The drive won't work if you have connected it to a powerless USB hub. You will need a powered USB hub. TIP: Advice to those who want to prevent the contents of the drive from being misused. This drive is as good as a open locker. Anyone can connect the drive to their computer and copy the files. So before you start copying files, save time and install a software like USBCrypt which will create a virtual partition. That way, your drive will have a main and a virtual partition. You can decide how much space you want to allot to both the partitions. But its better to allot more space to virtual partition. The virtual partition is password protected while the content of the main partition are open to the world.
5|Excellent piece of equipment for the money you pay. I have owned multiple external hard disks, and never imagined I would take the time to review something as basic and obvious as a hard disk, since the minute differences of data transfer speeds between most of the brands really doesnt warrant the effort of typing a review. This disk however stands apart. Thin, premium, light. Its like everyone owns a car for commute but the Porsche 911 will stand out in a crowd. Going by the same simili, you will require to pay a premium for a premium product. Taking it a step further, a Honda Civic and a Porsche 911 are both cars, in everyday traffic they will take the same time in city commute from point A to B, both have the basic creature comforts but you will pay 10 times over for the Porsche. Similarly, this is a slightly faster hard drive but in daily usage the difference is not so obvious. It will store 2 TB of data, Will give you the usual seagate disk management software (which is slow, cumbersome and a pain). The form has nothing to influence the function but the lightweight, extremely thin and durable metal construction and the colored shell, all add up. If you feel thats worth the Rs 1000 odd of premium, this is the disk for you. And, there are brands offering lesser quality at a higher price. I would recommend this product.
4|100% Original product, Mfg Feb/2015,Product of China/Assembled in Thailand.Very slim,Handy,Excellent material and Premium finish. I have checked with Seagate regarding warranty and I got 3 yrs warranty for my Seagate backup plus1TB hard disk.Only prob.here is the part no. on the hard disk is different from the part number on the box.So while validating your warranty,if you put part no on the disc, it will show as unknown warranty.Please make sure that you put only serial no and model number(STDR1000300 if its a black one), then your warranty is displayed. Its being confirmed by Seagate that the Serial number of the product determines the Warranty.So dont worry about the part number issue.(Pls.see the Q&A section,""How to validate your disc's warranty"") Packing of Amazon was pathetic.No protection just wrapped with cardboard cover and sent it.Iam not sure whether any damage happened to my drive in transit but as of now its detected by my system. Packing must be improved and lead time in shipping should be reduced. I just started using my hard disk and will give a detailed review on the performance as soon as possible. Quality product ,worth of buying.....
5|I got my pack of Seagate 1 TB Back up plus HD yesterday from Amazon. Packing is well. The packet comes with HD+ 3.0 USB CABLE+Instruction Manual.HD apperancewise is good & small in size. I connected HD through u.s.b 2.0 port via my laptop & backup my 120 GB data within 3 hours & 45 minutes. I think data transfer rate is acceptable with 2.0 usb port. The HD comes with usb 3.0 port & cable. When using with usb 3.0, the rate of data transfer may be vary. The HD comes with a usable space of 931 GB & utility software Seagate Dash Board for Windows & Mac system. The utility software is useful one. A pop up window of for warranty registration will come & we can also see the time period of warranty.(Internet connection needed) Seagate will also giving an evaluation version of Seagate file recovery software with this .When comparing with other HD, Seagate giving a vibration & noiseless operation.(Compared with my Toshiba 500GB HD which one crashed recently) As a long time operation Hd body not heating up too much. The body of HD is made up of plastic material & finishing beauty is good also. Mean, overall performance of the HD is looking very well now & acceptable data transfer speed is also. I hope and believe this HD will give the return for the spended money. Overall we can give 98% mark for this HD.
4|I just really loved the product trust me friends this hdd is very fast , too silent , very small n slim......... Then why 4 star ha? just because i want to order silver one after 2 hours the price raised 600+ Rs oh no.......... & For Packaging without bubble rap ...........so I ordered black. Speed in usb 3.0 on single files of large data like cd images i got 90 MB/s average speed sometimes peak is above 100 mb/s for small files it gives 60 mbps average Speed. Speed in 2.0 fro single files were around 35 mbps Belive me friends this is the best u can get i compared it to WD My Passport which i have already which is a bit vibrating , a bit heated , and a noisy also. According to some websites wd's hardware for usb is a bit sensitive, more voltaege can stop drive working Advice- stop connecting to Led Tv's Still i got lucky i got this at 4270/- Black The last piece In Stock .The Delivery is Quick Final conclusion -- GO GRAB IT !!! Over any Competitor!
4|I think it is a good & trendy for the job of data back-up ,just remember to handle/store it safe.. Pros : - Light weight and handy - Just can slip in your pocket - Quick in transferring of data (best I got was approx 25Gb/hr with USB2.0) - Sleek glow light indicates its connected - It draws very less self power ( Saves battery life if you are travelling) - Makes no noise and didn't get hot even after overnight connectivity Cons : - Very delicate plastic bottom, can get easily damaged with just one fall - Better plan a pouch - The USB port of the drive looks too delicate - Transfer cable is too hard and short ( 55cm approx) - PC Back-up software stopped mid way, I had to depend on Drag & drop ( Not tried on social media sites) - There is No text mentioning color on the box - I ordered black but it looks more gray, may since it has metallic finish The packing from Amazon was just doable but was delivered in record 2days although it was promised in 10days.
4|Was looking for a relatively cheap hard disk drive for an eternity since my previous 2 TB external hard disk drive from Wetsern Digital crashed a year and a half from the date of purchase. I've had a good experience with Seagate with a 500 GB external hard disk drive purchased in 2009, still operating smoothly. Decided to go for this product because for a portable drive and the capacity that it offered, I felt it was a steal @ Rs.3,899. Also, felt safer dealing with Seagate. I've had this product for 2.5 months and so far no issues with it. Very smooth and noiseless. The biggest surprise was the size of the product. It is actually slim as it says on the product title, about as thick as a smartphone, and it is also very small, it is about the size of my wallet. As a result it easily fits into any pocket and is portable in the true sense of the word. For the capacity that it offers, I think the size of the product is a big big plus. On the flip side, what you see is NOT what you get. Namely, although it says 1 TB on the product, the physical storage space is only 931 GB. Now, up to a certain extent I am ok with the lesser space, but a total loss of 69 GB was I feel a bit much. Something in the region of 30-40 GB would have been fine. Also, while multitasking, like creating a new folder on the hard disk during the course of a data transfer the disk hangs for 3-5 seconds which is kind of off-putting. Other than this, nothing much to complain about as yet.
4|I ordered it after reading positive and some negative reviews(Warranty issues).Yet i have ordered because segate has a service centre in my locality.Very slim HDD at very competitive price. I grabbed this in lightning deals (Price:Rs 3900).Flipcart price is still 4600 Rs. Come to warranty: 1) I contacted seller before ordering and he assured me full warranty(3 years). I confirmed this after registering the product through segate website.I got more than full warranty(Oct,14,2014 to Dec,2,2017) 2)Backup of PC using segate dashboard software is taking one night. So i am using simple COPY and PASTE policy which is taking little time(approx 2hours). 3) Backup of mobile device is very difficult. I couldn't able to connect it(segate HDD and mobile by wifi) though i followed all rules.From reviews i understood that segate backup plus(not slim) is good for mobile back up also.(4 stars given for this).But its late....... 4) Finally this is a owners pride piece. 5)Amazon rocks for its quick delivery logistics.
5|I owned WD Passport ultra. Believe me it's "SLIM" (compared with other HD including WD Passport Ultra). Color is not pure black, but carbon Black. Seagate shiny logo is engraved at bottom right. Comes with Seagate software for PC. "KEEP THIS HD AWAY FROM SMALL CHILDREN, THEY WILL EAT IT, ASSUMING IT AS CHOCOLATE BAR :D" >>Pros *Light and Slim. *Light indicator (white color, it Dim's then Glows, Dim's,again Glows...Loved it) *Online Seagate Backup with Desktop software (included). *Really Fast. [ USB 2.0 = avg 26MB/sec] (stats varies according to your system hardware and configuration) [ USB 3.0 = avg 98MB/sec] (stats varies according to your system hardware and configuration) *Multi OS supported. (tested on Windows 7, Linux Mint. I don't have MAC, so sorry about that, But it will work 100% on MAC too) *Silent. (Doesn't make NOISE compared with other HD). >>Cons *Just mild vibration. You can feel mild vibration, if you touch it while Read/Write. But it's negligible because it's mild. TIP's: *Don't plug it on infected systems. *Remember to unmount (safely remove) first, before removing HD. *Keep away from from water and extreme heat. Overall Great performer occupying less space because of it's Slimness. Grab it.
5|Feature wise the product is really wonderful, Slim and feature rich; specially the provided software with the hard disk 'Seagate Dashboard' is very good and convenient for data backup from mobile and laptop/pc etc. Data backup plan can be created using the software and can be executed as per the schedule or convenience for mobile as well as pc/laptop. You can backup on the go as well, provided your hard disk is connected to the PC/Laptop which is connected through internet. Some cloud storage option is also available using some 'nero' or so but I think that is paid (I did not try). Unfortunately the product that was delivered to me had some manufacturing defect, hence I requested for replacement, but even after multiple followup, amazon told that they don't have replacement option now. They are refunding the money back to my account. Hence it was waste of time and energy if you are not luck to get the perfect product. I don't know why they changed their policy not to replace the product with a good quality one, in case of a manufacturing defect or so.
5|This is my first online purchase, and I started it first with Amazon. I am really really happy with my product Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Red). The delivery and packaging by Amazon was great (5/5). I ordered this hard drive on 28th, July, 2014 and I got it delivered at my house on 1st, August, 2014 and that means I got this delivery within 4 days as promised by Amazon and I am happy (5/5). And to say about the glamor, beauty, and performance of this product, I would definitely say that its 100 % genuine, and its the world's slimmest, most beautiful, smallest, compact, and really it is the fastest external hard drive in its category (5/5). It really supports windows xp, vista, 7, 8, and 8.1 and also mac os computers and as well as it works with Seagate android app that is available for android smartphones (5/5). And it has really very fast read, write, and transfer speeds on both usb 2.0 and usb 3.0 (5/5). And Amazon is offering this product for a very cheap price than the market price and I got this product for just INR 3999 whereas its market price is almost INR 7500. And, I would conclude by saying that its very very very fast and its smaller than any smartphone and its really light and I really really have fallen in love with this beauty.
5|I need a new hard drive every 10 months. After the failure of my old WD, I have started maintaining 2 copies of every picture file I have. I download 100GB worth of media every month so its only natural I like a more portable, quieter, politer hard drive. I've had zero complaints with my WD My Passport 1TB but wanted to give Seagate another chance and here is what I liked... a) It is slimmer and better built than the Passport to me. b) The light doesn't keep flashing which is good because on the other hard drive I have to disconnect it from my laptop before sleeping cause the blue light flashes. The light is a cool solid robotic look. c) Really impressive read/write speeds. I partitioned it using DISK UTILITY to make sure it works both in windows and mac format. I purchased mine for 3870 but you may see it 200-300 more right now. I am happy with this product. Bear in mind - there's a three year warranty which I shall use if need ever. Did I tell you its very silent? Cause it is. Almost like there is no moving part inside.
4|the available space is 920GB
5|Awesome.... just love it....
5|good product amazon is great
5|GOOD PRODUCT,FASTER DELIVERY
1|Worst. Touch is not working.
4|Very much convenient to use.
5|Very nice.. Thanks to Amazon
5|Compact, light n excellent!!
5|Serves my purpose very well.
5|Nice product... must to have
5|Good one. Works as expected.
5|satisfactory . decent look .
5|Good product from cloudtail.
5|EXCELLENT AND PROMPT SERVICE
5|Great deals and good product
5|The product is satisfactory.
5|Suprb...i suggest evryone...
5|Awesome drive. Slim n fast
4|Great product & useful to me
5|very happy with the product.
4|Good product, like expected.
4|Beautiful HDD must go for it
4|nice product .....good speed
5|Good product with best price
4|its very nice. easy to carry
5|Good product and good seller
5|The product seems to be good
5|Awesome product, good speed.
5|Nice Product Value for money
5|Absolutely awsome product...
4|Exelent one. Value of money.
5|nice product, quick delivery
4|good to use. very economical
5|Very Good performance so far
5|It's Just an awesome product
5|Nice product..slim and comfy
5|Awesome, fast and super slik
5|nice look,no heating problem
5|good product. Best in class.
5|Great Product. Good Service.
5|The product supplied was OK.
5|Very slim, good performance.
5|Excellent value for money...
4|Good one and value for money
5|Good hard disk for the price
4|NICE PRODUCT SUPPERRRRRRRRRR
5|very nice back up hard drive
5|I can feel its good product.
5|read write speed superfast..
4|What about the warranty?????
3|Slim but not value for money
5|As of now its working great!
5|good product with best price
5|Good Product and best price.
5|Good Product. ..Good Service
5|Starting with size, it's really small, fits comfortably in the palm, mine being medium sized, the thickness is about twice that of the slimmest of the phones. The cable is short, I think its less than 30 cms,but sturdy. It heats up after some heavy use, I'm not able to give exact temperatures as I didn't calculate it, but it's hot enough to get some people worried, though, I don't feel it's much of an issue, as it continues to serve it's purpose really well. About the usable size, it's a little less than 1tb,around 975 gb available. The speeds are really good, copying from my regular hard disk went at a constant 105 mbps, while moving speed was around 110 mbps, whereas my newly bought sandisk cruzer U 64gb pen drive gives me a dull 5mbps from the same USB 3.0 port. They have a software inside that, though not much to my interests, would be useful to many, I'm sure, as it promises an extra level of security. Overall, I would recommend this hard disk to anyone who might look for one.
5|Reasonable delivery time!! More than satisfactory R/W times!! Plug-in and play!! Would like to have password protection to view the data that is currently not there!!
5|I PURCHASED A SEAGATE BACKUP PLUS 1TB HARDDISK AND THE SERVICE WAS VERY FAST AND STARTED BUYING MORE PRODUCTS FROM AMAZON.IN..... I ODERED ONE MORE 1TB HARDDISK..
4|Receiced my order in time. Product is really a very good and looks great as it is perfectly designed .Due to its slimness it is easy to carry . Totally satisfied
4|Does what it's supposed to!
5|Its very amazing product...
5|Nice packing and great care
5|Good quality with low price
4|I was surprised by the size
4|Nice quality. 100% genuine.
5|Worth of Money. Good one!!!
4|GOOD ONE WITH THESE RATE...
4|Really compact and portable
5|Good product and its fast..
5|excellent price and quality
5|Its just awesome I loved it
5|Seagate , always Trustable.
5|I can say its just gr8.....
5|Really authentic deal....
4|Speed not so great actually
5|Excellant Service & Product
4|It's working good as of now
5|Awesome... 100% guarantee..
4|Nice product from seagate!!
4|very good product for money
5|Undoubtedly awesome product
5|awesome prouct from seagate
4|Compact handy safe to carry
5|Good quality product.......
5|Great device will buy again
4|good price for that product
5|Excellent and easy to carry
4|It is good and easy to use.
5|its lovely....thnk u Amazon
4|This is a must buy product!
5|Very good and best product.
5|best working no any coplain
5|Good quality and efficiency
5|Nice its working very well.
4|excellent, value for money.
4|Looking forward to using it
5|it was great !! tremendous.
5|Product and Service is good
4|Good compatible and compact
4|Good product in its range..
5|Awsum product..worth buying
5|Compact size with gr8 value
5|Excellent price and service
4|it's equally good as WD. :)
4|good product.working fine..
4|Sleek and best product ever
5|Best in the range u can get
4|This harddrive is really good, it is Also slim and has a great performance as it used usb 3.0 This product is just great anyone reading this should just go for it!!!
3|its writing speed is not that good 28MBps is max. for files above 200MB I think all the HD do the same so you can go for this product as it is costing just 3800+
5|Best Value for money.Bought @ Rs4250 on 29/12/2014. Delivery:- Ordered through one day guarantee scheme and got very next day. Amazon lived upto its promise. Packaging:- Not great but sufficient. Product:- First of all, this is very slim hard disk as the name suggests.Hence potability is amazing. One can carry along with your 5 inch phone in same trouser pocket and you will not feel weight. Performance: On HD tune benchmark test, I got Transfer rates as Min: 50.2 MB/sec, Max: 114.7 MB/sec, Avg: 86.4 MB/sec and access time of 17.2 ms.It is great as per cost. While transferring movies files(~700 MB) it writes at 60 to 70 MB/sec and read around 100 MB/sec . All stats on USB 3.0 Overall great performance on this price.It even performs better than my laptops internal hard drive. I chose seagate backup plus slim over WD elements only because of its slimmer profile for just 200 bucks more :)
5|A perfect buy everything is perfect Packing is good No disk sound Very light Backup application is good Installed Ubuntu on it :)
5|Best product at very low price online and best product best productbest productbest productbest productbest productbest product best productbest product
4|Good product at best price
1|Disappointed with purchase
5|A very good product indeed
5|This is one powerful s***.
4|Keep Calm and buy Seagate!
4|Good product slim and fast
5|nice!!! no issues till now
4|Working beautifully so far
5|Product n delivery is good
5|Awesome storage device !!!
4|Slim n portable, very nice
5|Working fine. Nice product
4|nice compact no vibrations
5|Good product at good price
5|good one..original product
5|Awesome... Such a greatest
5|Good Quality Thanks Amazon
5|Just Perfect, Good Product
4|Slim and fast....beautiful
4|Best quality &good service
5|Good product trimurtivideo
4|Satisfied with the product
5|masterpiece, money's worth
5|Good very good in delivery
5|great looks, superb speed.
4|The Cable it very delicate
5|Very good. Worth ur money.
4|One Word explanation: Nice
4|bit expensive but its good
5|Good packing. Good product
5|excellent back up , faster
4|It was upto my expectation
4|Good product at best price
5|handy, light, good quality
5|Clearly unbeatable HDD....
4|Good product from Seagate.
4|Does it job, no complaints
4|Good product Works well :)
4|as described. pretty handy
5|best USB HDD in this Group
4|Yes it's very good product
5|Very nice and slim product
5|Working OK. Easy to carry.
5|Best product at low price.
5|Good product....thumbsup!!
5|very good and slim product
5|excellent value for money.
3|This hard disk is bit slow
4|Very good and easy to use.
4|u pepole roooooocks !!!!!!
5|As I expect it is perfect.
5|Very Good Product for Mac!
4|Nice product thaku amazon.
4|Very nice to use. and fast
1|the speed is continuously decreasing at even 22 mbps at an 3.0 usb what a worse product all false feed backs are given delivered after 7 days
5|When it comes to External HDD, Seagate is the undisputed king, Amazingly Super Slim,Highly portable, ultra sleek,blazing fast performance.Highly recommended
3|Heats up quite a bit but not facing any performance issues. Metal body conducts a slight current ,very slight when attached, otherwise a decent product.
3|Initially this was working fine, 2 weeks later, I got an issue.. and that too many times.. Cant copy or paste,, on reconnecting,, its working.
5|Read write speed is almost accurate as promised. This is great deal. I bought it on flipkart for 4550 bucks. Now regretting on poor decision.
5|A premium hard disk from Seagate. Transfer speeds are really great. The metal body with Matt finish really gives it an edge over other portable hdrives.
4|Its worthy for that price
5|i am happy with this deal
4|It's good. Working nicely
4|It a good product to use.
5|Itz a very good product..
4|Sleeky design..looks good
5|Excellent quality product
4|Started using. No issues.
5|Great Product. Go for it.
5|The product is GOOD !!!!!
5|Value of money good speed
4|Very good..working fine..
5|Great product, I love it!
5|One of the best in market
5|It was an excellent deal.
5|the best 2 tb d out there
4|Excellent and very handy.
4|Works amazing. Best ever.
5|Nice product at low price
5|It is a very nice product
4|good quality nice product
5|its too good thnx seagate
4|Yes, The product is good.
4|In short - 100% satisfied
1|Very good. 100% satisfied
5|Nice product, very handy.
4|nice..delivered on time..
5|love it. works fantastic.
1|Not detected after 4 days
5|Yes. It is very usefull .
5|Low cost good performance
4|Very nice one.no problem.
4|Good and reliable product
4|still working very nicely
5|Very slim. Easy to carry.
5|slim and working smoothly
5|It is good - Worth buying
5|Really good..very compact
5|So Slim n Sexy...........
5|Good product. Nice speed.
5|Genuine and nice product.
5|Good Fantastic Marvellous
5|nice product .. very slim
5|I LOVE THIS PRODUCT .....
5|Awesome. Just Buy it.....
4|It was the one I expected
5|Running in good condition
4|Till now its working good
5|Excellent in all respects
3|Slim ,Fast and Effective.
5|Delivered in time .. good
5|This product is very good
4|Its good product and slim
5|Nice Product. Good Seller
4|Good one we can go for it
5|Good and Portable Product
5|Great! It was as expected
4|Fantastic HD,, must buy..
4|I got in reasonable price
5|Its Very Good Product..!!
4|Good Product From Seagate
5|Awsm.. express delivery..
5|FULLY SATISFIED..... GOOD
5|Awesome storage material.
4|Very good looking product
4|Product reached fast in good condition. So far performing as per specification. Slim and light weight. Easily portable. Can take around in pant pocket.
5|"Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Blue) USB 3.0" * Very Light in weight. * Compact in size, can easily fit into jeans pocket. * Attractive Look. * White LED Indicator. * Seagate Dashboard Software is provided for additional functionality. * Copied single file of 2.72 GB from Laptop to Seagate Backup Plus in 54 seconds giving 51.58 MB/second WRITE SPEED. * Copied the same file of 2.72 GB from Seagate Backup Plus to Laptop in 35 seconds giving 79.58 MB/second READ SPEED. * Copied 11,155 files of total 10.1 GB from Laptop to Seagate Backup Plus in 5 minutes and 25 seconds giving 31.82 MB/second WRITE SPEED. * Some variations of READ SPEED are observed for different laptops and different files, but that is not an issue. Overall, it is a very good product from a reputed company, with very reasonable price.
1|Please dont buy this product. I bought this hard disk on May 26 , 2014. It stopped working after 3 months..... I will never buy seagate products..
5|Nice product, very slim, beautiful.very fast transfer speed up to 30-40mbps.a very tiny size like a mobile.moreover a big brand and within budget.
5|Really good product nicely packed just some delay in transit because of some miscommunication but other than that really good I loved the product
5|Good :) nice work amazon
4|ya , cute & good quality
4|Good product from amazon
5|Good Product from Amazon
5|It's a very good product
5|A nice product Indeed !!
4|Reliable and easy to use
5|Good Quality. Go for it.
5|worth!! Thank you amazon
4|Price is not competitive
5|Good HDD from seagate !!
5|Too good.Good quality to
5|Good product. Satisfied.
4|compact, super fast!!!!!
5|Very good for Mac users.
5|Worth it. its sturdy too
4|Good Prompt service
4|Good one. Slim and handy
5|the product is excellant
5|Best in class harddrive.
4|Super Slim & Nice Design
4|Nice Slim and Fast HDD..
5|Good and very small fine
5|I wondered at this price
5|nice, delivered on time.
5|Excellent performance...
5|it's an awesome harddisk
5|Good performance device.
5|Best hard disk till date
5|Excellent portable disk.
4|Nice service and product
5|High speed data transfer
4|Very good for this prise
5|Good product as off now.
5|Great Speed.... Reliable
5|nice hdd small slim sexy
5|It very sleek in design.
4|small and perfect for me
5|Very slim and nice drive
5|Compact and easy to use.
4|Nice product by Seagate.
5|It is very slim and fast
4|Good product. Nice speed
5|nice working,& very fast
5|Works fine as advertised
5|Good product. Very slim.
5|spot on as per the specs
5|Very nice & best product
5|Good Product. Go for it.
5|NICE GADGET.WORING WELL.
5|Good Shopping Experience
5|graet product good price
4|I am very much satisfied
5|Best price, best quality
5|So I bought this one week back for 4,150 and I got it the next day! So 5 stars to Amazon on doing that. The original price is 7,680 so it was a great deal! The packing was top notch! On first time inspection, I felt It's bloody light!! Like seriously :O. It comes with built-in Seagate dashboard which I felt is really handy when transferring files and troubleshooting! Now I have a Seagate go flex pro which I bought 5 years back and is USB 2.0. So when u compared the write speeds I was left awestruck. The 2.0 gave me speeds of 16-21 mbps with an all time low of 12 mbps and high of 21mbps. And this monster gave speeds in the range of 40-100 mbps! Courtesy USB 3.0 :D Constantly giving 52mbps. And it touched 100mbps while transferring! So overall good buy! If the price is still under 4.5k Go. For. It.
5|Amazing product!!! And some quick delivery bonus too... Amazon really shakes it off with its quick and reliable delivery apart from the mouth-watering prices it offers on the products. What is really worth the cash about this product : 1.Comes with a pre-loaded backup software that makes backing up from your pc, mobile device or even any social media just easy and hassle free! 2.Stunning metallic cover design and surprisingly slim and easy just to carry anywhere in your pocket! 3.Extremely quick in backup and transfers between the devices. 4.Seagate offers best-in-class service of its products and comes with a 3 year warranty... All in all, this product is simply the best one out there in its class and price range... Definitely must buy!
5|This is very good device to back up computers, mobiles, etc. It has stored program to install for automatic backup. It is working perfectly.
2|IT IS GOOD AND THE TRANSFERS SPEED IS BAS THE TRANSFERS SPEED IS 30KBPS IT BAD ONE OF THE REASON AND PRODUCT IS GOOD AND NICE AND SLIM
3|Good
5|Though I am a typically marwari (Rajasthani) Expert in Bargaining so I found 1TB HDD at very low cost comparatively to all markets/shops.
1|Highly Disappointed with the Packing as well as the Product received. The Warranty is valid for 3 years from the date of Purchase but my product was already in warranty from last two months. Purchased from Cloudtail (which is owned by amazon) so did not expect such a mess with the order. Month of import - June 2014. Warranty effective - 6 Sept 2014 Purchased - 1 November 2014 Check Seagate website :https://registration.seagate.com/ now google and see seagate warranty validation and put your sn/no and part/ no on top of box and also available on back of harddrive. Amazon agreed to a Return but all buyers need to check before opening the box itself. Fantastic Delivery but whats the point if unsure of the product.
4|Truly Value for money. When ordered bet prise offered only on Amazon In this case I didn't say " Or Dikhao Or Dikhao "
5|Working fine uptill now
3|Good product, satisfied
5|nice, flawless product.
4|Satisfactory and worthy
5|nicely delivered. good.
4|it was nice experience.
5|Outstanding Experience!
5|good product very handy
5|A slim and good product
4|It good worth of taking
4|A very good product....
5|Good one with low price
4|Good n original product
2|slow in retrieving data
5|Very Good Product......
5|Does what is expected !
5|Seagate name is enough.
4|Good hard disk to buy .
5|very very nice product.
4|seagate hardisk is best
4|Good slim and work fine
5|excellent product......
5|good and useful product
4|A Decent storage option
4|Great to have very nice
5|it is a Must have item.
5|best external hard disk
4|Highspeed data transfer
4|Value for money product
4|it is excellant product
4|It's very good product.
5|Really fast and furious
5|Very compact and useful
5|Compact & great to use.
5|works nice with Mac too
4|Nice product...........
4|Product was excellent..
5|Fast service, nice
5|worth buy for the price
5|Good and handy product.
5|Nice and useful product
4|Its working fine for me
5|Swift Delivery. Thanks.
5|Swift Delivery. Thanks.
5|Happy with the purchase
5|Very well delivered....
5|SUPER PRODUCT..........
4|Gd 1 in cmpare to WD...
5|its the best hard drive
5|nice look speed be good
5|Very light and durable.
4|grt product from Anazon
5|I was looking for a no-frills portable external hard disk as I was running out of space. Found this item and it was cheaper in Amazon.in than in Flipkart. Ordered this item, and even though I didn't select 2-day guaranteed delivery, got the product delivered in 2 days. Very happy with the service. About the hardisk: First thing I noticed is that it is indeed slim. USB 3.0 is fast enough. The bundled app (only for windows and Mac, not for linux) can take automatic backups, and with the help of corresponding smartphone app, backup data from the smartphone too. Haven't tried that out though. Construction is good, feels solid in hand. Though I'd recommend buying a cover/case for it if you travel a lot with it. Overall, a good product at a reasonable price.
5|Fit in neatly in all my works, faster transfer even through USB 2, it's light and doesn't make much noise or vibration on extended use.
1|IT hangs after some days and all my 600 gb imp data was lost.....poor company must take care of it......wd is much better than this ...
5|If I had to describe this product in one sentence, I'd say, 'A cute and pretty little life savior!'. ;) :) The color is beautiful, design is sleek, fits in a pocket. It has a cable along with it to connect to the computer and doesn't require external battery, which is good. Around 931GB of 1TB is available for storage and it has a back up facility. Transfers data very fast and doesn't heat up too much during the process. Simple plug -in and play sort which makes it user friendly. And a very good offer price from Amazon, which no other site gave. I had been eyeing this product since quite some time and amazon gave me the final reason (offer price) to jump at it. Love it and if I ever plan to go for higher memory size, it will be Seagate Backup Plus Slim and Amazon only :D :D
5|I purchased the item recently & got it within 2 days though I didnt opt for speed delivery. Thanks a ton Amazon. Now coming to the product. i have a 1 TB Seagate Go Flex which is now 4 years old. Since I watch a lot of movies n series it was hard to keep forever. The search began for a 2TB. Now I wanted a slim n colorful one. Blue looks wonderful. Light in weight for a 2TB variant comparing with my 1TB. Slim n easy to hold. Perfectly fits my Case Logic Case cover. Around 200 GB will be pre-occupied. That's sad. Speed is around 20 MBPS in my USB 2.0. Yet to try on a 3.0 Since i hv been using a Seagate 1TB for years now, I can vouch for it's built n ofcourse the safety of data. Overall it's the best in the market.
5|1) Smoothing running 2) very light weight 3) matched the product what was ordered 4) Quick service 5) Nice colour
4|Speed was more than I could expect. It gave me around 90-105 mbps copying speed which varies from 50-80 sometimes. Apart from that I faced problems copying a folder of 100+ GB , result was very bad. My computer's hard drive got corrupted and because everytime I copy that folder after half process my Computer get into hibernation with no screen. Well I was lucky my Computer was under warranty. Other than that its super silent ( you wont feel it untill you hold it in air ) and super light ( which make me doubt its durability ) As for now I am more than satisfied with such a steal at 4200 with 10 % cashback . It would cost me around 3780. Dont think, buy it. Amazon offers way better quality products than flipcart and they have even better customer care services
5|This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm.Now this one from Seagate is worth a buy it comes with mesmerizing looks,slim and yes the slimmest! light weight,small in size and can easily slip in your pocket.The power light is sleek and bright which you can turn on or off from Seagate Dashboard! The back up software is good and user friendly,you can make backup plans for your removable devices or for your entire PC(takes quite a while though) also you can backup all your social media contents from Facebook, Twitter And Flickr by just signing in and all contents starts downloading right into your hard drive! USB 2.0 gives a sustained speed of about 26 Mbps and I guess USB 3.0 will give around 85 or somewhat like that,usable space- 931 GB
4|Its extremely satisfactory till date, its been 1 month now i purchased it, amazon service was good , got it the date they commited.
5|I've the most compact Hard Disk in my gang. The performance is really good, I could get upto 30 MBPS transfer rate with my USB 2.0 device. & with 3.0 It goes more than 100 MBPS. No issues with my product evaluation and was so simple. Looks very sleek and stylish, almost with the dimensions of iPhone 4S. My cloud storage is not validated so far and i couldn't use it. Also Seagate provides only 1 Yr of 5 GB Cloud Storage. There is no password protect which is available in WD My Passport. Should handle with care.! It seems Seagate uses Samsung's Hardware which I found during Warranty Check. Samsung's HD are comparatively cheap than Seagate HD ! But I guess the looks, durablity, performance matters..
4|Hi All Thanks Amazon for the great deal. Shipping : Reached in expected time frame. Packaging : could'vs been better and protective. About the product Product is fairly lightweight and right sized to carry along with you. +built quality is good with metal casing on the top. +Transfer speeds are acceptable used both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 ports. +Did not felt the device getting heated, transferred about 250GB of data in one go. -The connector on the HDD seems delicate, so please use with care. To safeguard your HDD please buy a HDD protector case which has adequate foam padding to keep your HDD safe when carrying it with you. Hope this helps.
4|Starting from product description to package delivey is excellent service by amazon.I recieved the product two days earlier . .
5|got assembled in china
5|Very good as expected.
5|Tremendous performance
4|nice one for the price
5|Its good and awesome..
5|Nice storage option...
4|IS OK TILL NOW FOR USE
5|Seagate is always good
5|AWESOME.....LOVED THIS
5|As of now, it's good..
5|gud very gud hard disk
5|Very good product..!!!
5|nice product i love it
5|Product is really good
5|good & value for money
4|Like it - working fine
5|very good awsome prdt.
5|Great value for money!
5|As per my expectations
5|Gr8 speed of transfer.
4|Its a very gud product
5|stands up to its brand
5|Completely Satisfied!!
4|Decent transfer speed
4|no issues till date!!!
4|Full fill expectations
4|Sleek & classy design,
5|Quite useful and handy
4|Light Weight & Compact
4|Excellent data storage
4|Good buy for the price
5|good product.slim size
4|very use full products
5|simply awesome love it
5|Nice one as a pride !!
5|Very nice slim product
5|Seagate...very nice...
5|Very happy to have one
5|completely satisfied..
5|Nice product and deal.
5|amazing and very light
5|Value for money @ 3600
5|slimmer than wd 1tb...
5|Great value for money!
5|extreamly light weight
5|Worth for money.......
5|good very slim product
5|The product is awesome
5|nice product..........
1|worst company worst hd
5|at this price its a must buy.....metal finish makes it look classy and it easily fits in my shirt and denim pocket..........
4|in simple words good, light weight, portable, fast and accurately priced i might consider another one in few months time
5|I was in confusion whether to buy WD-Passport Ultra or Seagate Plus Slim. After reviewing/receiving feedbacks in Blogs/friends on both products. Decided to go with Seagate Backup Plus Slim. As always Amazon was prompt in delivery, i received the product within 2 days & it was well packed. I was initially afraid of product not getting covered under warranty, but to my surprise it was for 3 yrs :) :) The finish of the product is really good,classy & compact. It is easy to carry & very handy. I'm using this drive for a week now & the speed is good (approx.coping speed 28-35 MB/s for videos & 12-25 MB/s for photos). The space you get to use is 931 GB. Seagate Dashboard software is included where you can backup your PC/Mobile.
5|will it work on linux environment? I want to buy this today. Any body can help me please.also is it compatible with usb 2.0?
5|when I got this product I have connected to my pc at that time it was working perfectly after two days I got some problem i.e. I was not detecting in my pc then I have tried with my frind pc even same problem with his pc also then I have decided to return the item. with in one day got a cal from Amazon and they gave me a solution that once try with Seagate customer support or if you have not satisfied with them they told me that they will return my money back. At Seagate customer support I got my problem solved with in 1hr.... please connect your hard disc to back side port of your pc if any printers or scanner are connected please remove and shut down your pc and restart you pc by connecting your hard disc only.
1|when i am trying to copy anything, the speed is very slow like 2mbs, thinking of returning the product,any suggestions ???
5|The harddisk was delivered apt on time in a day. Good work amazon ! Talking about the performance, it works out of the box with Mac OS X Yosemite and on Windows 8 alike(no reformatting needed). Just need to install the Seagate dashboard software that comes inbuilt with the harddisk. It can though be configured to work only on Mac with Time Machine. Copying rates are also very good with backward compatibility for USB 2.0 ports. The red color looks stunning and the raised Segate logo is simply awesome. Overall this harddisk is a value for money. The things it missed out on is the security features which are there on WD My Passport, but for personal use i don't thing them to be a game changer !!
5|Hey good am satisfied.....i suggest it for users too...... this is very slim and very very less weight compared to others
4|Good one from seagate
4|Handy & good quality.
5|Its good as expected.
5|Happy with my purchae
5|It's quality product.
5|item was simply super
4|Worth for money......
5|Upto the expectations
5|Product is very good.
5|Nice portable device.
5|It is a good product.
4|unused new one. great
5|Very good performance
4|Good storage device !
5|Awesome product......
4|Good item as expected
4|slim and good product
5|Excellent. I love it.
5|Excellent product !!!
5|good Quality Product.
5|slim, and easy to use
5|Excellent hard drive.
5|very good performance
5|superb product ......
4|irresistible product.
1|Broken when delivered
5|Genuine product .....
5|Excellent for storage
5|Really good & compact
5|Excellent instrument.
4|Amazing. Good product
5|Slim and easy to use.
5|Highly recommended...
5|Sara kam ho jata hain
5|Highly recommended...
4|Truly value for money
5|Satisfied with result
5|nice portable drive..
5|excellent product!!!!
3|It is satisfactory...
5|over all good product
5|Serves the purpose !!
5|It is a good product!
5|Product as described.
2|Puraa Faaltu Speed !!
5|its worth every penny
5|Amazon..truly amazing
5|Really its too good ,
5|Good quality product.
4|Good quality product.
4|Very fast and compact
5|Awesome for the price
5|Product is excellent!
4|its good one till now
4|good with best price.
5|good one.. good speed
3|Its very good product
4|Very slim and light..
4|It is value for money
5|works extremely well.
5|Fantastic Slim drive.
5|VERY GOOD SPEED, VERY LIGHT WEIGHT... WORTH FOR MONEY... VERY EASY TO OPERATE... BETTER THAN OTHER SAME RANGE BRAND :)
4|This is a good product. Transfer rate is between 30-90 MBPS. Go for this if you are looking a good External hard disk.
5|Hi Friends, About this Hard disk.. 1. It's design is awesome. 2. Less Weight. 3. Easy to carry. 4. As it supports USB 3.0 the data transfer is too fast. I have compared this product with flipkart Amazon : 4250.00(Rupees) Flipkart: 5004.00(Rupees){Date: 19-12-2014} Check the same thing in the following url: http://www.flipkart.com/seagate-backup-plus-slim-1-tb-external-hard-disk/p/itmdswy5zzg9myjv?pid=ACCDSWY49TJFFXHG&otracker=from-search&srno=t_1&query=Seagate+Backup+Plus+Slim+1TB+Portable+External+Hard+Drive+%28Black%29&ref=6371da26-6c39-467b-a4d8-dbc96d31112e Thanks for the such a wonderful PRODUCT... from AMAZON....
5|Excellent product. Very easy and handy to use it. Store all my data before the system recovery. Really very helpful.
4|Review for Amazon This was my first ever purchase from Amazon India and the experience was really good. Amazon delivery is fast and reliable; also the packaging was quiet good. Got the product within 48 hours Review for Seagate Hard Disk The name given by Seagate as "Slim & Portable" to this product is absolutely correct. I love the design of this product; it’s really handy & comfortable to carry anywhere. The weight of this hard disk is very light and size is very compact. The only thing which is little odd is that the space I got is 931GB (even after formatting). But overall the product is worth buying and i would recommend it to the buyers.
5|This is very good and awesome product by Seagate on amazon.Product prize is really great on amazon.Thanks amazon.
5|Think at least 100 times before you purchase this product because 1) it has no data security 2) it corrupts very easily ( in one year my 3 hard disk have been corrupted) i.e data loss approx 2300 gb 3) worst part is its warranty system they wouldn't tell you exact date when u r going to get urs repaired hard drive (I have to went more than 6 times to get it back from warranty) 4) at time of urs warranty if u say any thing against seagate or hard drive they would boldly say "" WHY HaVE YOU PURCHASE THIS HARD DRIVE""" 5)product quality is very poor specialy it is made of very very poor quality of plastic THINK 100 TIMES BECAUSE IT'S WORST PRODUCT EVER SELL BY AMAZON....
3|The hard drive has slim smart looks. However, the product description is not true. It does't work with MacBook Pro for data backup but only for mobile and social backup. The Seagate Dashboard works very well with Windows but not with MBP, as the description makes one believe. Seagate customer support is awful. I wrote them a mail simply asking if the drive is meant for "drag and drop" for MBP. They answered that it can be used as Time Machine....well, that's true for any external portable hard drive. Buy this hard drive if you only want to work with Windows. Fairly disappointed with Amazon after my first purchase from them. Amazon's competitor are far better.
1|Bad very bad worst..is when you receive your order late and after that you find your order to be defective. 1. LED Light is not working. When i first connected the HDD, i didn't know about the LED on the drive. But when i checked on my friend's HDD(checked on 3 friends) their LED were lighting up fine. Also I tried the option to manage the LED on the drive though the Seagate Dashboard Software, but the product was damaged. Finally I had to return the product. 2. Packaging was very bad. It was wrapped in a plain very thin cardboard wrapper. It was very loose. Very much unsatisfactory. Finally I had to return it, so I am very much disappointed.
5|Seagate is the brand to go for Portable External Hard Disks. - Great design...very slim. Its height is same as an iPhone 4. The black color is not the usual black...its much much better than expected. It has a glossy black front which shines beautifully with seagate logo that reflects light in a most amazing way. - Amazing speed. If you connect it to USB 3.0 port speed is usually between 50 - 60 MBPS and for a USB 2.0 port it is 25-30 MBPS (for large files...small files usually take more time). The only thing that bugs me (even though i expected it) is that it is not 1TB i.e. 1024GB.....It is 931 GB (93GB is lot if you are short on space :D)
4|Good deal with brand
5|Worth spending Money
5|It is a really good.
4|It is a good product
3|Very delicate device
5|Excellent as always.
4|Really good one.....
5|Wonderful experience
5|It works fine for me
2|Good for data backup
5|Good as expected !!!
4|smart and good speed
5|Very good product...
5|Very good product...
1|wired is not working
5|excellent for backup
4|Very Good Product...
5|Seagate is the best.
4|good quality product
5|Good speeds nice one
4|As per expectations.
5|Superb...just buy it
5|Excellent product !!
5|Smooth and reliable!
5|An excellent product
5|I am fully satisfied
5|excellent product...
5|Sleek & compatible !
4|Good back-up device.
5|Good product to have
4|I was good product .
5|Good one. Can buy it
5|mast hai yaar ......
5|Simply great product
5|100% unused original
5|Awesome Product ....
5|Good product .......
5|Performance is good.
5|Best 2 TB hard disk.
5|I LIKED IT VERY MUCH
5|Amazing performance!
5|Very compact storage
5|Excellent Hard Disk.
4|realy v good product
5|Excellent keep it up
4|An excellent product
5|Excellent working...
5|good quality product
4|Very good product...
4|Awesome hard disk...
5|Works like a charm !
5|Terry good i like it
5|Excellent..!! Thanks
4|very nice product ..
4|It is simply superb.
5|wow price! Nice one!
5|Excellent product...
5|I purchased Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB HDD through Amazon.com which is US base online shopping site and there this HDD is much cheaper than here incl courier and import duty charge. Total cost is Rs 7009 including all expense. I order it on 02 Dec 2014 and its reached me on 23 Dec 2014 which is quite late coz its an international delivery. Response of customer service of amazon.com.us is at par. they are very very good and co-operative. As far as HDD is concerned its quite good while i used it with my laptop windows based. It works fine no noise no overheat very small very slim and good looking. its full fill all my need what i want from an external HDD.
5|give me one mobile free for my rating a good for you..give me one mobile free for my rating a good for you..
5|Product delivered in 3 days. Packaging was good. To review the drive itself, it has a metallic finish 'look' to it, but 'feels' plasticky. Felt a 1 TB drive should be sturdier considering how much data will go into it.Quite slim and comfortable to handle ( feels like you are just handling another smartphone or tablet!). Registered the drive on seagate website and was happy to find 2 months of extra warranty above the said 3 years. Transfer speeds for small files is about 30-40 Mbps and about 70-80 Mbps for large files. Have been using it for 4 days now and am quite satisfied ( will get back to the reviews should anything undesirable happen! )
5|its been after a really long time i decided to purchase this one. I got to tell u guys its awesome super transfer speed and its very portable as well. i accidentally dropped it once and touch wood nothing happened. I previously had western digital 1TB and it gave me 'n' number of problems, its finally dead now and after the cremation of tat i got this monster and i am not disappointed. I have to say about AMAZON.COM and the service is super cool. i dint give that one day delivery but still i got it within 24 hours with very good packing and this is the one u should if u are looking for a cool HDD to carry over where ever u go.
5|i've ordered this hard disk after much searching on various sites and finally prayed much to get it delivered on time. I was moving to another city and i wanted to carry the collection of my 2year data without carrying the laptop. So, amazon delivered my small yet powerful tool on time. I was surprised to see it's small size and it was sleek and stylish enough to reflect my style. It can simply fit in my shirt pocket and smaller than the phone. Seagate has proved its worth and amazon has multiplied my delightness by delivering it on time. Thank you seagate and amazon to make me happy. I've got something more than expected. :)
5|It works really nice till now an hope so in future also thanks for the good product Seagate Backup plus.
5|Quality of the product is very good. I have very good experience. go for the this product. all the best.
5|the product is good
5|Met the expectation
4|Working as expected
5|Light and Portable.
5|It is very nice....
5|A very sleek Design
5|seagate alwaz rocks
5|very nice product .
5|Very nice hard dick
5|Working fine so far
5|Good compact device
5|Exciting when I got
5|this product is fab
5|No problems so far.
5|Value for the money
4|very slim... wow :)
5|Such a good product
4|good build and look
5|Just what I wanted.
5|Good just go for it
5|Excellent product!!
5|Very good condition
4|Met my expectations
5|Good performance...
4|the product is good
5|Nice portable drive
4|Is as expected ....
5|perfect for me.....
5|Good one..aesthetic
4|As per expectations
4|loose contact issue
4|Great n very useful
5|Its a good product.
4|Product was gud:):)
4|It's a nice product
4|I ve not tried much
5|Meet my requirement
4|Awesome performance
5|Beyond expectation.
4|Good sleek product.
5|simply perfect.. :)
4|its good n slim . .
5|Very good product .
5|Excellent product..
2|Its OK.nt so gr8...
4|NICE PRODUCT 4 STAR
4|Hdd is working fine
4|Robust & good looks
5|very nice & compact
5|Nice and best price
5|Very good product!!
5|TRULY SLIM AND FAST
5|It's simply awesome
5|very good..........
5|Works as it should!
5|its a good product.
5|Awesome... Like it.
5|it work very nice..
5|Working as expected
5|beautiful & useful.
4|its really good....
5|Good transfer rate.
5|Value for moNey !!!
5|This is working OK.
5|Very slim and handy
4|Good Performance...
5|Excellent! Thanks!!
5|AS PER EXPECTATION.
4|Very nice and sleek
5|Its as expected. Works with both mac and windows (let me clarify that as I myself wondered about the same thing while ordering.), when you install with mac it gives you 2 options weather you want to use it for only mac or both mac and windows, if you choose the later it will install it with Windows NT Filesystem format and installs a third party driver on your mac machine to write on it. If you want to use another mac with it, you will need to install that software on the other mac too(only for writing, other mac can read without the software.) Looks good, comes with a 3 year warranty, you have to register for that.
5|Best hard disk ever made I got it for 7k and am happy.Copying speed is also fast!Choose only this one.
5|Amazing Product delivered at an amazing pace.. Well done Amazon!! Got the delivery in 2 days.. The product itself is amazing and is a very handy device. The product is slim as the name itself suggests. I am not a tech guru but the speeds of data transfer are excellent. I am getting speeds of 30 Mb/sec in USB 2.0 and Speeds of over 60 Mb/sec in USB 3.0. From what i understood, these speeds are beyond par.. The warranty is to be registered online and will be a limited warranty for 3 years.\ Well done Seagate for this amazing product and Amazon for delivering at lightening speeds!!
5|It has been week that I am using this HDD it is very slim and very light to carry. My computer has USB 2.0 but the HDD support USB 3.0 so I get a transfer speed of 25Mbps which very nice to transfer movies and heavy files. This HDD also connects directly to my LG 3d Cinema TV just like a Pen drive. The body of the HDD is made up of Metal. Amazon Delivered the HDD on perfect time. This was also my first purchase with Amazon and was a very pleasant experience. If you are thinking of buying this HDD then go for it it is worth money. Just to add this HDD also backups social media from FB twitter and from android.
5|The Hard disk works fine. I give 5 star, it is because this website has not cheated me so far. Thanks
1|This is worst product which i purchased at amazon. I bought it and it is not working after 3 months.
5|This is a USB3.0 Hard disk drive. The drive has glossy sides, but the top and bottom have a matte finish, and overall the product feels very premium. I constantly get read and write speeds over 80MB/s from this drive (I have a SSD in my laptop). Apart from this, I saw some reviews claiming that the socket for connecting the USB wire is finicky and weak but that is not the case at all. The connector fits snugly and doesn't move at all. Overall I am really happy with the product (one also gets warranty for 3years, checked my drive on Seagate site.) and delivery by Amazon.
5|Excellent quality product as we know seagate is the best in bussiness here in HDD field...guyz no second thoughts just take it and enjoy.... Advantages 1)Slim and compact (can even put it in ur pockets like a mobile) 2)Attractive white LED 3)Shiny lustrous mettalic Finish(with attractive contrasting colours) 4)USB 3.0...Amazingly superb speed,copied an 11GB file in just 4 minutes! (Backward compatible with USB 2.0 also) Disadvantages 1)Short USB Cable 2)Not Shock proof and water proof.....If it falls down or in water,You can kiss the product Goodbye!
5|for a very long time iam thinking of buying a new harddisk.. COMING TO AMAZON...packing was not good. no bubble rap was there. no second layer protection like flipkart. COMING TO THE PRODUCT...When u open its pack and first time you take it in your hands...you will feel like its a piece of art... Super slim....it doesn't get any better....Very cute look.light weight.and slim trim look.It provides excellent performance.i will suggest my friends to buy this product .it has has a software for windows and mac to easily backup pc data.and i find it very helpful .
4|its a nice .and speed of file transfer is best.performese also good.i m happy to use this device
5|So far its best :)
5|amazing product...
5|Very nice product.
5|very good product.
5|Very much reliable
5|product is so good
4|Excellent Product.
5|Very good product.
5|It's simply cool..
3|good but old model
5|best in it's class
5|Very good product.
3|sometimes it Hangs
4|Original packing .
4|Good at cheap rate
5|very good purchase
5|its a nice product
5|Value for money :)
5|Awsm is the word!!
5|Best thing to have
5|superb. impressive
5|Totally satisfied.
4|Best of this type.
5|nice deal.good hd.
5|Superb performance
5|beyond expectation
5|Vry nice product..
4|its wrking good...
5|Very good product.
5|very good and slim
4|Very good product.
5|it is very good...
5|Nice till now....!
5|Awesome hard drive
4|Worth buying......
5|Excellent purchase
4|Good worth buying.
5|very nice product.
5|Sleek and powerful
5|Good & slim Gadget
5|very nice and fast
5|Very good product.
5|Just Awesome... ;)
5|GR8 Item. LOVE IT.
5|HANDY LIGHTWEIGHT
5|Works As Specified
4|This what I wanted
5|Slim n as I wanted
5|Just what I needed
5|excellent product.
5|Excellent product!
4|Looks Very gud :-)
5|This is good stuff
5|Slim and beautiful
5|Excellent product.
5|compact and worthy
5|still working well
5|excellent product.
5|Good in operating.
4|It is pretty handy
5|Excellent product.
5|nice product......
4|Nice slim and fast
4|Very good product.
5|Booked it through Amazon.in and got on exact date. On receiving the product I just connected to PC and installed the Seagate Dashboard and Sea Tools and tested the Hard disk. Unfortunately, my HDD failed the test and thought of replacing the same from Amazon but due to my own work issues planned to replace with Warranty claim. Submitted at Service Center and within a week got back my HDD replaced with new one that cleared all the tests in Sea Tools. Now it has warranty of 3 years and 3 months. Good Data transfer speed. easy to use in all devices. I would recommend for any ine.
4|Ordered this approx two months back to use for back up. Used same day delivery and in evening it was in my hands, so Amazon's same day delivery means same day delivery, after using this for about one and a month I can say: Its really small and handy its superfast It looks awesome, very nice finish Only drawback is its heats up after long usage. One more thing, I felt bad as price is very dynamic, price went down even today I am getting at a cheaper price. Anyways thats not a big issue. Awesome product A must buy guys
4|Its a nice slim product and the free home cash on delivery from Amazon was on third day itself. When i inquired about this product from Segate customer care they said it covers 3 years replacement warranty not repair warranty. Over all nice product, good speed and back up facility , easy to use packing from Amazon was nice and satisfactory and above all the price just Rs 3800 only which you get for 4500 or more in the market. You go can for this and trust on Amazon products. I am using this for the first time and overall satisfied till now.
5|i my all fri who shop form amazom .in it is amm gin site i bay a seagate hdd it is vary good
4|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) fully meets my expectation. It was new and delivered in a properly packed condition. The data storage space is as given in the article details. Very userfriendly. It is light weight, compact and with nice appearance. It has embedded Software for mking backup of the complete drive. I booked it during Deepavali time so delivery was made in 6 days but it was informed at the booking itself. I am fully satisfied with the article and Amazone services. It was my fourth online purchase from Amazone.
5|For the product: This is one of the most good looking hard disc available in the market today. Super sleek, light, vibrant colour and an amazing performance backed with a 3 year warranty by Seagate. Highly recommended. For Amazon: I had ordered this as a gift and was happy to see the overall packing. On the other hand, since it was shipped through India Post, they stuck to their reputation of delivering it late. In addition to this, there was no day to day update available about the present location of the courier.
5|Absolutely Great Great product from Seagate. It is thinner and smaller (by an inch or so) than the same model I bought for 1 TB 2 years back. The red looks great, the surface feels superb, and I got this product cheaper than it's black variant at 6.6k.The device is silent, doesn't hear up (though it is brand new now), the transfer speeds are great, with seamless USB 3.0 connectivity. Have been using the Seagate 1TB backup plus from 2 years until it gave up recently, I hope this lasts longer and continues to impress me as it had done in the first sight!
4|we got this product in good condition and does well in performance no trouble in using it.
4|Bought it this summer in a great deal @7189 INR.. The formatted capacity of the drive comes to be 1.81 TB, which is still more than enough. The looks of the metallic silver is great but have to be careful to protect it from scratches.. So, I got a LACDO Case ( http://goo.gl/AybPMI ) for it as well. Coming to the performance, its kinda below the mark from what's being advertised but still packs quite a punch for a 5400 RPM external drive. Overall, I'd give it a thumbs up in case you wanna go for a handy and fine performing 2 TB external hard drive.
5|Extremely good and handy. You can carry it in pocket also. No issues with this product. As compared to WD 1tb hard disk, 1. This one is little bit slimmer, 2. Performance wise both are almost same. 3. Negligible difference in transfer speed between these two. 4. WD has a rough hard upper surface. So that scratch marks will not be visible prominently on this. Seagate back up plus slim has a plain plastic upper surface, still it has a arrogant & polished look. While carrying it might need more care than WD :).
5|Amazing product!!
5|very good product
5|also nice product
5|Excellent Product
5|Very good product
4|Loved it ........
5|Good performance.
4|Very nice product
5|Very nice product
4|very nice product
5|Very good Product
5|Very nice product
5|Very good product
5|excellent product
4|very good product
5|Excellent product
5|handy and speedy.
4|good . super slim
5|Excellent product
5|amazingly good...
4|nice, and usefull
5|Slim amazing fast
5|Wonderful product
5|No Issues to date
5|very good product
4|good product.....
5|Small & Beautiful
5|Excellent product
5|Excellent product
5|very good product
5|excellant product
4|good go..........
5|very good product
5|Excellent product
5|Very good product
5|very nice product
4|only 931mb usable
4|its v.nyce.......
5|excellent product
4|vwry good product
4|Working very good
5|Very Good Product
5|Really worthwhile
4|Totally satisfied
4|Good product.....
5|Very good product
5|Excellent product
4|nice device. ....
4|Worth for Money..
5|very nice product
5|Good one liked it
5|Very Good Product
5|Excellent product
4|Very good product
5|Excellent Product
5|Must buy product.
5|excellent product
4|It's nice product
4|As usual good one
5|Compact and handy
5|Very Good Product
5|Very good product
5|Very good quality
5|very good product
5|It is good for me
5|very good sarvice
5|very good quality
5|Very Good Product
4|Worth your money.
4|very nice product
4|very nice product
5|it is really good
5|Very good product
4|It's a blind buy!
5|Worth Buying It!!
5|Slim and good one
5|good compact slim
5|Very good & handy
5|Fantastic product
5|Good one to have.
4|competitive price
5|very good product
5|Excellent Product
5|Excellent Product
5|EXCELLENT PRODUCT
4|worth buying it..
4|HDD is upto mark.
5|Excellent product
5|Very Good Product
4|It is a good item
4|Excellent Product
4|packing baad.....
5|nice one worth it
5|Product is Good .
5|GOOD AND EXELENTS
4|I just loved it..
5|Awesome! Thanks..
4|Very good product
5|Excellent. ......
5|Very Happy... :-)
5|Performing well..
5|Excellent product
4|very good product
5|Very Nice product
5|Money well spent!
5|GOOD PERFORMANCE.
5|It's really good.
5|Love to reccomend
3|Its working fine.
5|Perfect, slim HDD
4|This is the best hard disk drive and is a value for money. You can easily store millions of pictures and videos and is actually smaller than me smartphone which makes it much easier to carry around. The speed of transfer is pretty fast if connected to USB 3.0 on the device. Moreover you can back up your data online. All your data on social networks as well as your mobile gets backed up using WiFi. Awesome isn't it. Regarding amazon the delivery was done one week before scheduled. Overall I'm very satisfied with the product.
3|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External was received with 4 days and work fine
5|I compared many products through various sites about the best 2TB Harddisks available out there and found this to be the best. Booked this in amazon and i got the delivery in a day. The Hard disk is very compact and light weight which was a pleasant surprise as it fits in ones pocket very easily. The Hard disk is very responsive and transfers data (using USB 3.0) at lightening speed. No hassle of additional power supply. Just plug and back up your data. I will surely recommend this as it supports both mac 10.x and windows.
5|This was my shopping from amazon and quality of service is quite good. Delivered within 3 days without any trouble. Only packing was a little poor. About product, superb look. I order it in black color but its kind of metalic dark brown which looks awesome. Design is quite attractive and real slim and compact compared to other hard disks. Its 2TB but user available space is 1.81TB. Transfer rate in 3.0 is also great about 85-90 MBps. Havent tried in 2.0 port yet. No doubt its the no.1 best hard disk. Definitely go for it.
5|Wonderful product! Classy design with a bit of metal thrown in, compact, lightweight and durable. A better option instead of WD passport. As for the performance it is quite fast. Has usb 3.0 which is backward compatible with USB 2.0 and gives a transfer speed of around 75mbps.Also has some default backup software which really helps the cause. It is a definite value for money. Only drawback is the default cable provided is just two foot long which is quite short! But you can always buy a longer cable.
5|i am happy its good
5|Delivered within 7 days. The packaging was great, as it always has been for any of my Amazon buys. The product is very slim and sleek, much better than my WD My Passport 1 TB. Also, i would recommend Seagate over WD, as the connecting wires are of much better quality in Seagate. I have seen a couple of WDs whose connecting wires started malfunctioning within an year. Amazon gives the best prices for Seagate over any other channel or competitor, including retail, Flipkart or Shopclues, etc.
5|Very good HD. Reading speed: 40-60 Mb/s. Write speed: 25-40 Mb/s. So far no issues.
5|Nice products at a great price. Excellent performance. Smooth and timely delivery.
5|It's sleek and very easy to carry. I love that it can be used with a mac and a pc!
5|My first hdd... Been using for 1 month now... No complaints! Speed decent given that my laptop is v old.. Old 2.0 port.. Good read write speed for avg use. And comes in pretty red! Slim and sleek. Aesthetically pleasing! Fits in pocket! And price so in the budget ! Just 4000! Performance over time would have to be tested and told later. But fr now perfecto! Would recommend. Offers data recovery but says if disk faults then replacement is not new butold repaired stuff. So read info nd purchase accordingly.
5|Handy and slim..
5|Fine Product....
5|eeeeeeeeexcelrnt
5|Good as expected
5|Best one I got..
5|Thank u so much.
5|affordable prize
3|good product....
5|Awesome Product.
5|VERY NICE DEVICE
5|good one to buy.
5|Ecellent Product
5|Great for backup
5|Worth for money.
5|Good as expected
5|Good Products...
5|its working fine
5|I love it.......
4|Good as expected
5|Very much useful
4|Product is good
5|very good design
5|Great hard disk.
4|Its good so far.
4|Awesome Price...
5|Awesome Product.
5|really very good
5|I Like Very Much
5|gud working well
5|excelent product
4|Good Product....
5|Fantastic price!
5|GREAT AND FASTER
5|Sleek and good..
5|Great product...
5|It's slim & fast
5|Good Product, :)
4|Love the Product
5|Promt.no words..
5|so far no issues
5|really worth it.
4|Grt performance.
5|real compact one
5|Nice and amazing
5|slimmest and VFM
5|good performance
4|Reliable product
5|Its a good piece
5|Best performance
5|Really nice
4|Worth for money.
5|Excellent !!!!!!
5|Great product!!!
4|Okay Okay Type..
5|Working Fine....
5|Worth The Pay ;)
4|Better than best
5|reliable product
5|Great Product...
4|good product vfm
5|It is very good.
5|very good one !!
5|no problems.....
5|it is a good one
5|very good price.
5|werth for price.
4|Worth for Money.
5|veryyyy sleeeeek
3|Good as expected
5|Original Product
5|Value for money.
5|Its good product
5|Excellent stuff!
5|Good Product.,,!
4|Simply Awsome :)
5|Ultimate Deal!!!
5|i recommend it!!
5|BEST!!!!!!!!!!!!
5|Just amazing....
5|GOOD PERFORMANCE
5|Grate product...
5|Back up is nice.
5|This is the ultimate hard disk in its price range of 4k... Robustly built and excellent finishing....Access speeds are around 35-45 mBps in USB 3...transcend has some warranty issues... So I dint go for it..Its even working with my xperia Z2!!!!! Separate connections can be given to power and data ports...Overall an excellent product... Jus got for it!! Edit:23/7/15 Journey with this hard drive is becoming still more enjoyable. No issues yet. Working with some smartphones too :-D. What more do u want?
5|very much satisfied with the product and amazon's service was amazing as usual :)
5|Super Slim Easy product registration Fast (transferred around 1 GB/min)
5|Just a simple word to say about it. "AWESOME" Cant think of any con. I have been a loyal Seagate EXHDD user its its first edition (500GB go flex usb 2.0) never had any problem with any of the models. This model is the slimmest of all the models and looks sturdy and durable. It would have been great if Seagate would have provided with a protective pouch or a carry case. All in all a good product. Go for it.... Great service by amazon. Keep up the good work guyz...
5|An excellent product to have. The feel is superb! It has got stunning looks. Performance wise seems to be good. Its too early for me to comment on performance. However, you have the option to backup your data to cloud. You can even backup your mobile phone and Social Media files, like Facebook, Flicker, etc... The product was packed to perfection. What impressed me most was the delivery time. I placed the order on 1st April at 20:30 and I received the item on 2nd April at 13:30. Thanks Amazon!!!
3|my order came within 3days. amazon is working gud . make a small change in amazon, instead of ''home delivery'' make it as landmark delivery. as it didn't came to my home. he collect me and told me to come to a land mark to the product. coming to the hard disk , it is very very slim . data transfer is not upto the mark. when i'm transferring data of 104 gb . it took 1 hour to transfer whole files with the speed of average 35mb/s. it shows 931 gb available when i connected to my laptop.
5|Definitely the most compact 2.5" External Hard drive. No heating up issues. You can slide this inside the small gaps in your bags and take this boy anywhere. I get speeds of around 120-130 MB/s in my Mac OS X Computer. The light is attractive, though it is not such a big matter. Looks are cool. But, if you are a frequent dropper, you must think through and go for the Transcend rugged External Hard disk instead. Because, in my opinion, this boy might not survive much of blows.
5|As slim as a phone, with good data transfer speed. Their warranty registration software has problems. Even using their website to register for warranty: https://registration.seagate.com/, the program will not show the product registered properly, even though it is actually registered normally. That is a problem with their website. Contact customer support support2.seagate.com. They will confirm the registration. Attached screenshot below to show the registration problem.
5|Very nice product... very compact ... and superfast delivery from amazon
5|its so slim . absolutely Gorgeous to hold. Its like half the size of my palm. Never thought 2 TB would be so slim & small.. Not had any issues till now. Delivery is slow . Took 6-7 days to reach me. Rest is no problem. Purchase it even with your eyes closed. Pros: 1. Really Slim 12.1 mm. Less than the width of your finger. 2. Size is small, that makes it super portable without needing external power. 3. Metal Design Cons: 1. USB Cable is Short
4|Bought this hard drive about 3 weeks back and works quite easily with my mac and windows 7 laptop. Setup was very easy and data transfer is quite good. Pros: - Works with mac and windows - Quite slim and thus easy to carry Cons - Doesn't work automatically with my mac for Time Machine backups. It seems I may need to format it to make it as a back up disk for mac Would recommend this disk for day to day usage for home/business use.
5|Awesome , i Took it when the rate was less, now it more.. Gud speed for Big Files Transfer, Normal for smaller files. its very small and light in weight, easy for portable use, i Bought NEOPACK CASE(RED) with Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable it is was betr choice, It is VEry easy to put Hd inside it,the cover is sooo tough even if u drop the case containing the harddisk, no harm will happen inside,,,the case is protective and hard, two pockets inside
5|Amazing product from Seagate. It does its job neatly. Ordered it for 3999 in deal of the day. Pros: Neat design, compact, got avg speed of 20mbps (it varies with the number of files you are copying), got max of 45mbps. Single cable for power and data transfer. Comes with Seagate Dashboard software. warranty information can be checked online (you need to register the product). Cons: Short cable length. There is a little bit heat coming out but not much.
5|Hi this Hard disk is very good, light weight and copying speeds to hdd is 30 to 50mbps and from hdd is 50 to 100 mbps. It's easier to carry because of its small size. And looks are good. But surprised to see this kind poor packaging from amzon. A world leader retailer like amazon should have done much better with packaging. The Hard disk was easily moving inside the box when it is shaken. I hope they'll improve on this. Apart from that hard disk AMAZING. GO for it. :)
5|Best product ?
5|Good product !!
4|Good device....
5|Speedy transfer
5|Good product...
5|Awesome speed..
5|Awesome product
5|fully satisfied
4|worth the price
5|Superb product.
5|Good hard drive
4|value for money
5|A good product.
5|Nice Product !!
5|working perfect
5|Awesome product
4|Perfect One :-)
4|its really good
5|Awesome product
4|Value for money
5|very good stuff
4|Met expectation
5|no comments..!!
4|Product is good
5|money worthable
5|Amazing product
5|Simply love it.
5|Its really good
4|lose connection
5|worth buying !!
4|Value for money
5|Awesome product
5|Very Good speed
5|Worth for money
5|Its good really
4|value for money
4|Nice and handy.
5|Product is good
4|fully satisfied
4|Awesome product
5|Truely loved it
5|awesome product
4|product is good
5|best hard disk.
5|Awesome product
4|Superb Product.
5|Nice Product...
5|Nice product...
5|Good and prompt
4|It is very nice
3|its a very good
4|Its a good one.
5|Awesome product
5|value for money
4|Good quality...
5|Excellent speed
4|Good Product...
4|Good product...
5|Awesome..... :)
5|Nice product !!
4|Good Hard disk.
5|Good product...
5|Awesome product
5|Good. Thank you
5|A good Product.
5|Awesome product
4|Working fine...
5|Good and worthy
5|value for money
5|Awesome Product
3|Nic product..!!
5|Awesome product
4|Worth buying...
5|Excellent speed
5|value for money
4|Good product. .
5|Nice one.......
5|Work perfectly.
5|Met expectation
4|good hard drive
4|compactible....
5|good experience
4|I purchased this external hard disk one month back. The hard disk is very portable and slim. I am using usb 2.0 but there are no problems with the data transfer speed of the hd. I have only one problem with this hd. Seagate is advertising this HD as 1TB but in reality there is only 931 GB available. It is almost 100Gb less. I expected atleast 960GB space. The storage space should be correctly given on the product description. Otherwise no problem with the product.
1|Bought this hard drive for a relative, however it crashed with in a week. Now I don't have an option of return or replacement even when the product is still less than a month old. I understand that hard drive crash rate is 2%, however Amazon should have returned the product. Now I will have to go to the manufacturer for replacement or fixing the product, which is very inconvenient. Will try another e-commerce website next time. Not very happy with the experience.
5|Excellent product. I've been sparingly using it for a couple of months now. The product performs as per the description. I tried to run a few tests as well; and the results are fairly good. Since the drive supports both USB 2 and 3, I wanted to find out the difference on Windows 7. On USB3, it gave me an average transfer rates of around 135 MB/S; while on USB2, the rates came down to around 33 MB/S. Not bad for an external USB. I can definitely recommend it.
4|I am shocked to find my Seagate unresponsive to any USB port in any of the computers all of a sudden. I have about 270 GB precious data collected inside it over the past 8 to 9 months. The data is not only recent one, but of several past years, transferred from my desktop & laptop. It is a great personal loss for me to loose all the information, if it cannot be retrieved. Please advise on my course of action. Thanks, VRK Rao.
4|Its too slim and working good till now bought on may 31st . . . . . . . .
5|Loved this small ultra slim portable hard disk which is as small as it can fit right in your pocket....the build quality is also good....and also got a 3 year warranty simply by using the seagate dashboard installer present within the hard drive...also it can be used both on a mac and a windows os as for both the operating systems the dashboard installer is present ...am quite satisfied with my new hard disk....guys it's worth purchasing...so give it a shot..
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB disc very slim and pretty good. The hard disk was delivered on time and was packed well. I use it to store my data and it's doing its job pretty well. I love it. I had bought an external 1TB disc some 3 years ago, Seagate slim 2TB is half the size of it in terms of dimension and weight but the storage space is double.:-) if you want to have sleek and higher space external disc, I see Seagate Backup slim 2TB the choice to go for.
1|This is a defective product that I received from Amazon and really angry at the pathetic product. The Hard disk name is " Backup Plus" which failed 3 hours after first usage!! also i had already transferred 80 GB of data to it, which is now lost. Who will take responsibility of that data?. This is definitely duping customers at a low Price of just 4k. Never expected a product of such inferior quality from Amazon! Please stay away from this product!
1|Rate kam karo pahle b to itne me milti thi..fir discount kyu likhe ho...
5|First of all, amazing delivery time. 3rd day i had the product. Now the product: its a value four money product. Got it for INR 3999. Its very sleek. Fits in your trousers pocket prity well. Transfer speed from usb 3.0 is around 19 to 25 mbps. Gives you around 950 GB. Rest is taken by the Segate software. Also while checking for the warranty instead of serial number put the Product no. Only then will it recognise it and give you the warranty period.
5|Really the best by seagate.its working properly with usb 2.0 & 3.0..you have to buy this.i buy it from amazon of 3830 rs.now its price down to 3600 something rupees.its a great value for money.its size is small as a normal mobile suze so its perfect to carry also,it also very much slim.whereever you go its fitted on your pocket.thats why i buy it & now you should look at this product if you find a portable hard drive..thanks seagate & also amazon.......
5|i got it from amazon's featured lightning deal for just Rs.3899...........it was awesome......delivery was very fast..within 3 days via india post.......as i m frm a remote state of india viz tripura whre conventional couriers like dtdc etc. usually deliver the item after 10-15 days..it was a very fast shipping....the product super sexy nd works fine......warrant 3yrs.2mnths....overall nice product at a nice price nd fast shipping.....thnx Amazon....
3|Hi Everybody, First, the product was delivered very late...it took them almost a week from bhiwandi (Thane) to deliver this... Secondly, the product is very good, light, compact & speed is good as well. One problem I faced was the plastic covering on the sides developed bubbles in two days which was quite sad. I did not report this as it will take another cumbersome process to begin. All in all a good product.... Thanks
4|Got the product before the expected time..Thanks to Amazon...good going...the product is excellent..elegant look and good performance....but the only sad thing is that its not working with Ubuntu...as i am using Ubuntu OS at office...its a must ...but when i am home its OK.because i am using windows at home.... and i searched the net to resolve this issue...but could not find any..can anyone help me on this issues....Then i shall give 5 star...
5|Amazing product. With good deal, lowest price i have found for this product compared to all other websites. The best oart from Amazon is it is much more better than flipkart which is good at delivery time. Product delivered following day from date of order. Coming to product description it was an amazing product. Sleek design, stylish, easy to carry, good at data transfer speeds. So i would suggest this product as best choice in 1TB range.
5|Product: Pros: This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm, it will easily fit into your jeans pocket without discomfort. Transfer speed - average 45 mbps to 85 mbps from the hard drive of your computer, average 30-35 mbps from another seagate external hard disc. 931 GB available space. Con: The only con is the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better.
5|Not so bad ! Use this with free mind and don't contend to partitioned of this drive. So use-full ! Copping speed is up to 50-70 MBPS ! I have used this on three different types of OS: Windows XP,7 and 8. It is working perfectly ! And yea ! In the WORLD OF EXTERNAL HARD DISK; SEAGATE hard disk is perfect to use. Actually it is only for hard disk company !! So buy this with free mind & use cleanly & safely !! -Thank you Amazon !!!!!!!!
5|I got this incredibly small and light 1 TB seagate hard drive within a week of ordering it !! Got it in a good package, and above all the device works very well !! The warranty was already started some 2 months back, but that's no issue if the product bought is of good quality and really worth of. Really awestruck by the small size, it happens to be as portable as my mobile!! great work by the suppliers and amazon..keep up the good work.
5|This hard disk was the first item costing more than rs 500 that i purchased from Amazon. I usually buy only books. But my experience was totally satisfactory. Got the hard disk in just 4 days( including a Sunday). Looks- Very Cool Size- Compact, similar to a smartphone Amazon Delivery- Great Hard Disk- Awesome Definitely a must buy if you need extra space for storage. Also the price at Amazon is unbeatable
5|This is my first purchase of a 1TB hard drive and the performance is great! The colour and matte finish look beautiful too. The package comes with installation programmes for both mac and pc, and takes just 5 minutes to have the drive up and running. Not sure how the partitioning can be done for Mac users though, since the Seagate Dashboard does not show that option on my machine- Macbook Pro OS 10.8.5. Please suggest...
5|When whole world goes for WD's passport I decided to order Seagate Backup plus and I'm absolutely happy with my decision. It is priced alomost 1500 less on Amazon compared to Flipkart. Product was delivered within 48 hours, really fast. It looks amazing and classy, red colors adds to its beauty. Speeds: - on 2.0 USB I get 10-15MBPS writing speed. - on 3.0 I get 40-60 MBPS. So far so good.
4|good product. very slim and light weight. data writing speed is good
5|bought it 6 months ago since my laptop have only 500 GB storage i bought this to store movies and anime which i don't watch often. and i love it !! transfer speed is about 80 mbps and doesn't get heated even after 40-50 GB or ever higher i don't know, it's size is like a mobile really compact. usb cable might be a little short for some people but since i use it on my laptop i don't care. comparing to other brands seagate is the best.
5|So i've been using this product for 1 month now Pros Speed as promised. Highly Portable. Nice Build quality and looks. Nice Connector, stays tight.. Works even on Android with OTG cable, but drains battery heavily(as expected). Cons: Gets heated on heavy load(Not much of a concern). Slightly on a delicate side(Dropping on edge caused metal cover to deform) Small connector cable
5|very good item
5|Its too good .
5|Superb product
5|Works Great :)
5|Great using it
4|Nice and handy
5|a good product
5|Good Product!!
5|Great product!
4|good product!!
4|Good product..
5|Good product..
4|excellent ....
5|Nicely working
5|Very Very Good
5|V.good product
4|Good product..
5|As specified?
5|Nice and slim!
5|Great product!
5|just fantastic
5|its very good.
5|Its worth buy.
5|Good Product..
5|Good product..
5|Good products.
5|Fast and slim.
5|Worthy product
5|Great product.
4|a good product
4|Amazing pdt ..
5|Super product.
4|value of money
5|Gd servic.....
4|M loving it ?
5|It's very nice
4|Slim and handi
5|good good good
5|excellent item
4|Nice product..
5|Great product.
5|Sleak and Slim
3|nice hard disk
4|good..........
5|simply awesome
5|Works pefectly
5|So far so good
5|Good product..
5|great product.
4|Worth of money
5|awesome device
5|Good for price
5|Great product!
5|Good hard disk
4|Good Deal..!!!
5|very very good
4|Safe and sound
5|Best Hard disk
5|Simply amazing
5|Good product !
4|good product..
5|Simply superb.
2|Not that worth
4|Great product!
5|fast transfer.
5|Great product!
5|very good.....
5|Great product.
5|Like this..(y)
4|nice and sleek
5|Cost effective
5|Good Product..
5|Good and quick
5|PRODUCT WAS WELL DELIVERED WITHIN TIME (ON 3RD DAY OF PUTTING THE ORDER). AS DESCRIBED IN EARLIER REVIEWS BY OTHER CUSTOMERS ITS VERY MUCH THIN, CUTE AND HANDY WHICH GETS EASILY SLIDE INTO UR POCKET WITH EASE. CHECKED FOR THE WARRANTY ND REGISTERED AND FOUND 3 YEAR REPLACEMENT WARRANTY TILL AUGUST 2018. SO GUYS GO 4 IT IF YOU NEED TO SAVE SPACE FOR YOUR LAPTOP AND TO SECURE YOUR DATA WITHIN SEAGATE WITH EASE.
5|Anyone looking for a small, beautiful and fast portable hard drive has to go with this. File transfer speeds are around 100MB/s (write speed, depends upon various factors, this speed was for a movie transfer) Activity led lets you know about the device's activity and can be turned off. Power saving features that can also be customized from Seagate dashboard. Overall more than satisfactory device.
5|I have been using this for the past 3 months and found it to be an excellent product from Seagate. However, I recommend to partition the drive according to your usage. As for the Seagate Dashboard app, It took a very long time backing up my drive for the very first time, subsequent backups were super smooth. I would recommend to manually take backup as opposed to using the dashboard. It is a Task , but I like this way.
5|Just took it off the box plugged it in and voila...copied all my stuff onto it (which is why i bought it) and i don't think it took much time to do that either from windows 7. (some even from an intel atom cpu !) Pros: Looks good, compact,Works fine. Cons: I don't know exactly why but it does show only 931 GB . But that's close to 1 TB (if not 1 TB) So all in all a worthwhile purchase.
4|It will undoubtedly match your expectations in terms of Size & thickness. It is very slim and easily fits in your pocket. Though the data transfer speed are not as per SPEC's, but they are reasonably ok. The 3 years warranty after registration gives you peace of mind. You can easily backup your content through Wi-Fi, but not sure about the security. Even after running for three long hours, generating moderate heat.
4|data transfer rate 24-28 mb/s & product is light in weight , slim , smooth if you open this and you are not satisfy this product then you return this product and your money is transfer your account with in 5-7 days . my suggestion you buy this product (WD My Passport Ultra 1TB Portable External Hard Drive) or data transfer rate 105mb/s this product is best because this product is use my friend or working is good .
5|Its a Awsum Product from Amazon.Its very costly outiside market.BUt quite cheap hereSo decided to buy from here.Well I was Very tensed.I have lots to study but everything i cant store in my mind..My brain has less ccpacity of 10 TB only Which is now full so I am frequently buying 1TB Hard disk to store my extra portion of my Brain.I suggest evryone to buy this Hard disk to store the extra brain which grow every year
5|Since its Seagate I did not have to think much about the quality of the product. My concerns were different; about shipping etc. But Thanks to Amazon.in for the prompt delivery and super safe packaging of all the ordered products. Well what I love the most about this HDD is, that it is so light weight that I can even carry it in my handbag. Super Ultra-portable it is. :) Go for it.. trust me you wont regret it.
4|I would give 4 stars for this product. pros : 1.Slim. 2.Durable. 3.Less weight. cons : 1.No proper support for the backup plus. 2.Software doesn't work much often(consider this point only if you want to avail the social back-up features) Overall : Satisfied with the product and with the price range at Amazon I would recommend it has a must have in day to day work.
5|I bought Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive from Amazon almost a month back and it's amazing. It is serving my purpose and it's compact size makes very easy to carry to places as it fits in the pocket. This is the first product I brought through Amazon and I really appreciate the way I kept posted about my consignment. As promised, product got delivered on time and appreciate Amazon for it.
5|A fantastic Gadget at a very reasonable rate. With Amazon, the fear of being cheated by online frauds, vanishes. There are no hidden clauses like your payments converted into credit points and the cost of the products more than double of Amazon. I have more than Rs. 4500/- credit in one of the online portal, but I prefer Amazon. I have made 3 purchases this July and all the deliveries are on dot. Amazon!!!! Gr8.
5|I don't know why most of the hard disks come in black, when blue looks so cool. Definitely should buy the blue one instead of black (or even Red if you me ask me so). I have been using this product for almost a year and never had any trouble with the speed or the functioning. I went to Seagate after using the WD and Sony, I will tell you Seagate beats both by a large margin. Definitely the brand to go for.
5|Great product. I like it.Till now working fine. I had bought it in Nov 2014. I have partitioned it in three (500GB, 400GB and 100GB) . The only problem is that as the memory is getting full the writing seed gets down. Initially it was around 40MBps. Now it is around 25MBps in one part and around 13MBps in others on USB 2.0 (off course it's more on USB 3.0). And thanks Amazon for on time delivery :-)
3|most of the reviews create confusion which affects the business
5|Nice Product from Seagate. Nice small and compact. fits your pocket and its the size of your regular wallet. The HDD has a size of 931GB. Data transfer at 110 MB (Copied 3.5 GB HD videos from my Sony DLSR in less than 2 minutes) Nice white light on the HDD. The grip is good. This does not come with any cover or casing. Might have to purchase it separately. (09/01/2014).
5|Just love the product fulfilled by Amazon. Its a sleek and handy lightweight 1 TB hard drive which you can carry in your pocket easily to any place. Although the disk space is little occupied with the backup software the empty space is more than enough to store all my important files. I have used Iomega and seagate earlier also but this one is really handy and good to store your files and looks good too.
4|Amazon your service is awesome.Got it delivered within one day without any extra charge. The product is beautiful and very compact...roughly the size of our palm and is very thin.Brushed metal finish in front makes it more beautiful and also breathing led light when connected to pc looks good. Average copy speed that I got on USB 2.0 is about 20-22 MB/second. Definitely worth the money.
5|I got the delivery within four days. Nicely packed. Well handled. Coming to the product. I have two seagate hard drives. This one is the best among all. Key Features: -Sleek and Compact Design -Metallic body. -Fast data transfer with USB 3. -Never experienced heating issues during heavy data transfers. -The fan is almost silent. Go for it.
3|Ok
5|Nice and slim
5|Very Good !!!
5|Best price...
5|Good product.
5|Fantabulous!!
5|Nice Product.
4|Good product.
5|It is working
4|Great product
5|supeb product
5|BEST HDD EVER
5|great product
5|Nice Product.
5|As I expected
4|Great product
4|good product.
5|Great Product
5|Good product.
5|Worth it...!!
5|Good Product!
5|awsm product!
5|Good product.
5|Nice product.
5|Good Product.
5|good purchase
5|Absolutely...
5|Great product
5|Nice product.
5|Nice product.
4|Works fine :)
5|Simply Great.
5|Good product.
4|Its very nice
5|Awesome. ....
5|gr8 product..
4|alert('xss');
5|great product
5|great product
5|Go for it ...
4|good product.
5|Great Product
4|goood so far
5|Good Product.
5|Good product.
5|Perfect Deal!
4|This is good.
4|Good Product.
5|Best of best.
5|Good Harddisk
5|Good Product.
4|Worth buying.
5|Great Product
5|Good product.
4|A great buy!
5|original item
5|Awesome...!!!
5|great product
5|Good Product!
4|Safe and good
5|best in class
4|Nice product.
4|so far ..good
4|Good product.
5|Good for data
5|Superb one...
5|Very compact!
5|Great product
4|Good product.
4|Good products
5|Great product
5|Works greatly
4|It works good
5|great product
4|good product.
4|Good Product.
5|Upto the mark
4|nice and slim
4|GOOD PRODUCT.
5|Nice one....
4|very good one
4|nice product,
3|Working good.
5|Great Product
5|Easy to carry
5|Nice product.
4|Quite cimpact
4|Nice product.
5|Fantastic one
5|excellent....
5|Nice product.
5|Great Product
5|Great Product
5|fast and cool
4|Good product.
5|best hdd evry
4|nice product.
4|nice products
5|Working great
5|excellent....
5|great product
5|Doing Well!!!
5|Chippest rate
4|Good deal....
4|Slim and Good
5|Best in class
4|good purchase
5|It is best...data transfers at very good speed.It also looks very good specially metallic cover over the HDD, it matchs with the colour of my MacBook Air. Moreover they provide warranty from the date of purchase (unlike WD HDD which provides warranty from manufacturing date ,i.e...if u buy new WD HDD in December and its manufacturing date is October then u will bear a loss of 3 months warranty)
5|Its a very good product!!. It is actually smaller than my phone. Amazing looks , stylish very slim and portable. Amazing service and delivery from amazon. The product is working good when i checked, Worth the buy. I bought this during the sale and its worth. the packing could have been better. Guys if you are planning to buy this and please go ahead. Its a very good product!
5|I purchase this product almost one year back.. and used it to 70% of it's capacity.. and I am satisfy with the product. 1. looks is good. 2. weight is quite normal. 3. easy to carry 4. performance is good. 5. can be use also with cable of samsung galaxy S4. :)) on and average value for money product by One of the Best brand in market.
5|Size: It is off less weight than your phone , Dimensions less than your 4.5 inch phone Its awesome , I used it with my MAC its super fast The Dashboard is also great , helps you to collect FB and Flickr Pics Transfer Speeds are really fast , It will suffice all your speed needs Need to be more fast , get a Thunderbolt connector Sold seperately by Seagate
4|It's slim handy product... It transferred 180 GB data with in 3 hours direct from seagate expansion HDD. Speed was 20mbps for HDD to HDD transfer. If you are directly transfering the data from PC to HDD then the maximum speed is 30MBPS which i think good enough. Finishing of Body is very good and the size and dimension of the product is also attractive. Over all it's a good product.
5|Its really good Good packing Doesn't get heated up
5|I will not take too much of time. Delivery of the product by amazon was good, received it within the time specified. About the product. I was surprised to see the beauty of the device. Its nicely made, is very slim, and looks very attractive. I copied about 200gb of data and the average speed of transfer was 20-25 mbps on usb 2.0. Overall I am highly satisfied with the product. :)
5|Performance wise, this is one of the best EHD that I've handled; the transfer rate with USB 3.0 is excellent as it should be n even for USB 2.0 it is really good. Due to its slim size it can be carried around very easily... all in all this is one of the excellent choices for a 1 TB hard drive... if u r choosing another one u should have really good reason for it...
5|Great HDD to have. With the tool Tera copy, able to transfer 60 GB in 15 minutes with lot of small files. With file size in GBs, this is getting transferred within seconds. Though the HDD is silghtly getting heated up but it is very little. Any hard disk will get heated up than this. Worth the buy. Cons: If you drop it, you are gone. The body cover is not strong.
5|First i was reluctant to buy this product. But i got a good deal. Bought is for 7200. It has a good transfer speed. Works both with MAC and Windows also works with Linux. This is the best product offered by seagate and it is fast compared to WD. Also has a sleek and appealing design. Only con is it heats up a bit after 6 hrs of use. But that shouldn't be a problem.
5|Pros: * High speed data transfer with USB 3.0 * Very slim and compact (easily fits in ur pocket) * Stylish look and fine finishing edges Cons: * No Anti-virus protection (scan it with ur own anti-virus software) * Backup utility given is not up to the expectations (u don't require it either) Suggestion: * Go for it without any doubt
5|Shocked to see the delivery speed of Amazon. Got this one delivered in 22 hrs (less than a day) straight without any extra charges. Packaging material needs to be improved. About the HD, its the smartest. Prices keep on fluctuating. So keep an eye & dont go for conventional black. Performance wise, its a beast. Download 24GB of Photos in less than 5 mins.
5|Super smooth functioning. Form factor is so amazing it is almost unfair to its competitors. However I messed up the indexing for my files in the disk once, but chkdsk utility was to the rescue. Handy tip: If your system asks you to format the disk because files are not being detected, do not blindly follow what it says, and also do not blame it on the customer service.
5|Very happy with service provided by amazon . I received seagate backup 1 day before to me, so hat's of to there promise. Talking about product seagate backup plus is more beneficial than wd passport in the terms of warranty. It gives me app. 50 mbsp speed and not heated as well, but only concern is about more user friendly software or dashboard of seagate n security of data.
5|Delivery: Amazon delivered it the very next day. Very Prompt. Price: Amazon gave at the best price compared to any other website. @ 4299/- Product: Very slim & light weight, no separate power cable needed, easy to install, quick online registration & warranty confirmation, easy to carry around, easy to manage, has password protection feature, the best in its range.
5|Cool drive. Doesn't take much time to copy. Worth to buy.
5|I purchased this one after a lot of research on the net and from the users. This is my first hard disk and I am reviewing the product after using it for a month. Just loving it. It has amazing speed of transfer. Compact in size and feather light. Looks so pretty and stylish too. I carry it in my bag all the time. I needed a hard disk that can work with my Nexus 7c tab too.
1|I bought this hard disc 6 months ago. Within 6 month it stopped working. Though Seagate Replaced it with "Re-certified" Hard disc, I lost all my important data on the hard disc. I think when manufacturer give warranty of 3 years it at least should work properly for like 2-3 years without any problem. Hence I guess quality of hard disc that they sold here is poor.
4|Pros: -portable and slim(as the name says) -Great speed(write: 25-28mb/s on USB 2.0 and 75-80mb/s on USB 3.0) -Packaging was great -has NTFS drivers for mac -Seagate dashboard works great and backing up data is as easy as anything Cons: -Short USB cable(the one provided in the box) -says 1TB(1024GB) but just gives 931 gigs.
5|1st I was amazed at the small compact size of a 2 TB drive. exceptional. my laptop only supports USB 2.0 and the speeds are somewhere between 20 and 30 MBPS. which is reasonable. To Amazon, I felt cheated with the two days delivery and you charging 100 rupees. At least in metros, you should try to deliver within two days by default without extra charges.
4|awesome product !!! device is very light, slim and handy, thought of holding a mobile in my hand. while connecting to USB 2.0 port, the data transfer is somewhat slower but can be adjusted, since i've transferred around 70 gigs of data within one hr. i didnt tested it yet with a USB 3.0 port....overall an awesome device from Seagate...service by amazon.in is good.
1|Very slow read/write speeds compared to western digital.
5|Works as expected and does the job silently. Didn't have problems with it what so ever. The transfer speeds on USB 2.0 port would be normal. To experience higher speeds please use a USB 3.0 port. I would also recommend you to buy a good hard disk case (My recommendation is NeoPack / CaseMate) for this hard disk. Good quality hard disk.
5|Instead of commenting on the packaging, time taken for delivery etc, the main focus should be on the quality of product, which most reviewers don't bother about. The plain and simple thing is that this drive is faster than the competition, cheap, very slim, works on both mac and windows. If you use both operating systems, then buy this, no second thoughts
5|It obviously comes well before the time mentioned. Amazing Amazon service. About the product, it's absolutely fantastic. Stunning electric blue finish. It is very handy as its quiet compact compared to other hard drives. Definitely lives upto its name of Plus Slim ! It comes in a great packaging too. So far so good. Definitely a thumbs up for this product :)
5|Just received the product in hand and I really happy to see it. A smart looking compact hardisk. Super fast in loading the data. Got installed within 10 seconds on my Windows 7 desktop system. If you are looking for a portable hardisk go for it without thinking twice. Amazon did a great job again by sending me this product within 3 days without any extra charge.
4|Awesome .. from AMAZON. Ordered on Friday evening and got it shipped by Saturday evening. Its remarkable in terms of delivery. Seagate is always the KING of HDD. This is another master piece with slim body and backup feature. Got it registered in Seagate site the same day.. everything is supeeerrr .. !! Go for it . Thanks Takkola
5|Nice Product
5|Nice product
5|Slimmest hdd
4|So nice good
5|good product
4|Very good...
5|GOOD PRODUCT
4|Good working
5|good in work
5|Good product
4|Its fabulous
5|Good product
4|good product
5|It's awesome
5|Best Product
5|Nice product
4|good product
4|good product
5|Nice product
5|Nice produce
5|Good product
4|good Product
5|Good product
5|Good product
5|Works great.
5|Nice product
4|Great Deal !
4|Nice Product
4|Good product
5|Good Product
5|good product
4|Good Product
5|worth buying
5|Nice product
4|Good product
5|Good product
4|Good Product
5|Nice product
5|Good product
5|Nice product
5|Gud look gud
5|good product
4|Working fine
4|Good product
5|Awsomeeeeeee
5|GOOD PRODUCT
4|Good product
5|Good product
5|Great device
5|nice product
4|Satisfactory
5|Gr888888...!
4|good product
4|Nice product
5|good product
5|Good product
4|Good product
5|It's nice. .
5|EXCELLENT!!!
4|Working fine
4|Nice product
4|good product
5|Nice product
4|Nice product
5|Good product
5|Good product
5|best product
4|good product
5|Nice product
5|Good Product
4|good product
5|working good
5|Good Product
4|Good product
4|Good product
5|nice product
5|SUPERBBBB...
4|good product
5|Good product
4|very useful.
4|Worth to buy
5|Good product
4|Good working
5|working well
5|Good Product
5|Satisfactory
3|Nice product
4|Giid product
5|Thank u ....
5|Nice product
5|Good product
4|Good product
5|massssssssst
5|Good Product
4|good product
4|Gr8. ?
5|Nice product
5|Worth buying
2|nice product
5|Nice product
4|Good product
4|Awesome.. :)
5|Good Product
4|no problems,
4|its awesome.
5|Good Product
4|good produce
4|Thank you. .
4|Worth buying
4|nice product
4|Good product
5|Good product
5|Nice product
5|Good Product
3|Returned it.
5|good product
4|nice quality
4|Good product
5|Best product
5|nice product
5|good product
5|Good product
4|Good product
5|Nice product
5|Excellent !!
4|Easy to use.
4|good product
5|good product
4|Good product
5|Good product
5|good product
3|Its is slow.
4|Good Product
4|Working well
4|good product
5|Good Deal !!
4|good product
5|good product
5|Good product
4|Nice product
4|good product
4|good product
5|Nice Product
4|nice product
5|Good product
5|good product
5|Good product
5|awesome...!!
5|NICE PRODUCT
5|Best product
5|Its jst awsm
5|right choice
5|worth buying
5|Gr8 product.
5|good product
5|I like it...
5|Blue is best
5|Nice product
4|Nice product
5|good product
4|Nice Product
4|Nice Product
4|Nice product
4|BEST ONE...!
5|Working nice
4|Nice product
5|Good product
5|Good product
5|Good Product
5|Amazing item
5|REALLY HAPPY
5|Good working
4|Good product
5|Awesome.....
4|Good product
5|nice product
5|Good quality
5|nice product
5|good product
5|Good product
5|good product
4|Nice product
4|Good product
5|good product
4|Good one....
4|Good product
4|good product
5|good product
4|Good product
5|love it.....
5|Nice product
4|good quality
4|nice product
5|Good Product
4|good product
4|Good product
5|Good product
5|Working fine
4|Worth buying
5|Good product
4|Nice product
4|GOOD PRODUCT
5|Its too good
4|Is very good
4|Nice product
4|very handy..
5|Product meet my expectation in term of quality and features. manufacturing date is latest which made me feel good further.... You can take back-up of Mobiles , PC very easily by using back - up plus features of hard disk... Thanks to Amazon ..... Area of improvement is Courier service which took too much time for delivery....
5|I am using this product Seagate backup plus slim 1 TB for past 8 months and didn't get any fault whatsoever... This HDD gives 930 Gb to storeage data... speed is 35-40 Mb/sec. in 2.0 USB port ->didn't check on 3.0 port... slim u can keep in ur pocket(portable) if u want to buy HDD i highly recommend to buy seagate HDD... Thank you...
5|Look i have used 2 hdd before using it 1) Toshiba 2) WD. But i have conclusion with me now in ranking in terms of build quality, performance, software provided company 1) Seagate 2) Toshiba 3) WD.. I hope this will help u all.. I bought it at the price tag of Rs.4246/= & on the same day price on Flipkart was Rs.4900/=... So all of us can see the difference..
5|i love amazon ..it almost took 2 days only to deliver this product..pacakaging was sophisticated with nice air bag...my hard disk was sealed...working welll witl any os.....copy speed was abt 28 to 30 mbps.....buy this product confidently...it was very slim product..no heating...no sound.....i love this.....thanx amazon...may god bless u.....hip hip hurrah
5|1. It is very slim and light weight.Even my old seagate 1TB feels bulky in front of it. 2. The transfer speed I get is around 80-90 MB/s. 3. I got a Seagate Backup software using which I can backup and restore my data to cloud as well as on hard disk. 4. Actual space you get is 1.81 TB. That's all. I got it for 6990/- and I'm loving it.
4|I really like this External Hard Drive, it meets my expectation very well. The only things I don't like is Cable which is too short. Other than that everything is perfect. 1. Read speed is more than 100 MB/s 2. Write speed is more than 50 MB/s 3. Its metal case keeps it cool. 4. External power not required.
5|had been using this product now from last 3 months its very slim(9.5mm) and very good read/write performance, you can easily carry it in your shirt pocket I generally dont install any software that comes along with such device but thought of giving it a try for seagate dashborad on my ultrabook(windows 7 professional) but it failed to install.
5|Its light weight! Really fast and Easy to access my Data!!! I would suggest that they bring in rather a longer data cord which doesn't twist and has a long life with no wear and tear! I would recommend to all of my friends to get it if they need to carry something around every now and then. However the Data cord thing needs to be improved!
5|The design is slim and reliable. Writing speed may differ from 20-25 mb/s in USB 2.0. it is small that it can even fit in your shirt pockets. The cable connector is too small, but anyways it doesn't matter. If you are looking for hard disk must go for it. Remember to register your product in seagate website. All in good product. I am happy with it.
5|What a compact product man!! It's very compact and even smaller that the earlier 1TB Seagate Hard Disk what I bought from Amazon. That product is still working as expected and I'm a happy customer with delivery and product alike. I received the delivery in the morning and in night I'm giving my comments. So, First impression so far very very good!!
5|Excellent hard disk . Undisputed no.1 hard disk . Very fast pefomance, to understand ui of its software. I am very impressed by this hard disk. Gives 30 MBPS even on a pentium p6200 (2.13 GHZ) PROCESSOR ( USB 2.0) . apart from performance its too stylish also. When its combined with tge one day delivery of amazon it becomes a product from heaven.
5|THE PRODUCT IS GREAT . GOT DELIVERED IN TIME . SOME OF THE PEOPLE ARE COMPLAINING ABOUT THE WARRANTY THAT THEY ARE RECEIVING LESS THAN 3 YEARS OR NONE . BUT IT IS OK WITH MY PRODUCT , 3 YEAR WARRANTY WITH EXTRA 4 MONTHS ( IT DOESN'T MATTER AT ALL ) I CHECKED TWICE :) AND I AM SURE ABOUT IT . SO GO FOR IT IF YOU ARE PLANNING TO BUY ..
5|Amazon service is good. Good packaging and deliver in time. Seagate hard disk, i have been using earlier version of seagate backup plus and this latest model seems to be a major improvement in size, its really compact and slim. And i use it for both mac and windows, seagate software works well for mac and windows. Without doubt you can buy this.
5|Considering its speed, slim build, reasonable price (Bought for Rs. 3890/-), flexible interface, and simple backup software, the Seagate Backup Plus Slim (1 Tb) is easy to recommend for those looking for a portable backup solution. Using this drive for past one year and No problem has occurred till now. I would simply recommend this product...
5|Very good hard drive. Extremely portable. Transfer speed is amazing because of the USB 3.0. Some people might complain that the USB cable/wire is short but that entirely depends on your usage. If you are going to use it with a laptop, trust me it won't be an issue. Good packaging and delivered well on time! Highly Recommended!
3|There are lots of things to work on though the reading and writing speed is pretty good. You couldn't sign up for Seagate online backup service even after trying for hundreds of times. And it definitely creates problem regarding ejecting other USB devices when dashboard is installed. So please fix all these problems to get a better rating.
5|The drive is really super slim. It's hard to believe that such a small device can have such huge capacity! Super silent and super fast over a USB 3.0 port, I have never get it heating up (but I do not use for extended durations as well). I bought it after a lot of review crawling and comparing this against WD offerings. Highly recommended!
3|I have not used much yet.It's okay but there was no warranty card at all. From diff. sources I have come to know that company's service center will not accept bill as warranty. I want to purchase Fuji hs50exr camera but worried about delivery process and warranty card because courier person does not open the package before taking the cash.
5|its really pretty..small, slim and compact compared to the other hard disks..because of its small size it becomes really very easy to travel with it..i am really very happy with it..just loved it..a must buy..a very sensible investment indeed.. :) and i must say thumbs up to the delivery speed, simply superb..keep up the good work amazon.
5|This was relatively expensive compared to other 2 TB drives (I buy one drive almost every 2 months - I am a wedding photographer / cinematographer, so loads of data to store regularly). But I like it - it is thinner that the WD's I go for often, lighter and I love the metallic red colour. Operations wise, so far so good (been few months).
4|Good Product! I ordered this for MAC and am using the same without any issues. You can easily partition it to exFAT and HFS+ format and use the same HD to backup through timeline, save mac files and save Windows file!! Though I don't use the software provided by Seagate and have formatted the HD right out of the box
1|The hard drive was delivered as per the schedule. But it was a faulty drive, the hard drive drivers could not be installed. I have tried with other systems as well and Driver installation failed every time. I have file a warranty claim without using the drive even once. I was given a refurbished drive of same model after the processing.
5|I am using Seagate 500 GB(since 2005) and then WD (2011) worst part is WD crashed and now not repairable even.. from last couple of months thinking to buy additional one.. and finally decided to stick with Seagate only and ordered for this one... personal experience plus all the reviews.. nothing better than Seagate... Seagate is BEST.
5|I must say amazon has a amazing delivery speed got this product in less den 24hr....come to the product...The matt blue is just awesome ..You can feel the quality of the product wen you hold it ...Small And Nice. ...worth the buy...and it is also compatible with android phone like the note 3 using the OTG cable and other devices too...
5|The hard disk is slim cute looking. Fits into pocket perfectly. Usb 3.0 speed is about 50-80 mbps and 2.0 is 24mbps to 30mbps. Speed variation is on different systems. Reason i dont know. But overall happy with it. It has its service center in my city not far from my place so i preferred seagate rather than wd or toshiba.
5|After a long research, I finally ended choosing Seagate 1Tb. It feel a premium look and product is made out of good quality. the seller has delivered on time. the transfer speed is really fantastic, does't show any sluggish performance. I recommend this product to all my friends and amazon users to buy a premium product like this.
5|Phenomenal portable hard disk. It's slim, elegant, lightweight and the metal finish is brilliant. Gives decent read and write speeds( Read-- upto 70 Mbps, write-- upto 100 MBps). Furthermore, provides backup for Cloud storage(like Google Drive) and mobile devices(with Seagate app from App Store or Play Store) also. A definite buy.
5|Roaping INDIA POST in for delivery is a very good move. I am completely satisfied with product. I got 3 year 2 months warranty.(angel shopping is the seller). There are no issues for warranty -while registering product Amazon is recognised as a seller. As far as speeds are concerned I have tested only USB 2.0 for writing 20 MBps.
5|Got it after my WD ultra passport crashed in 10 days. Amazon's service is as amazing as ever. Performance wise it is amazing and really really compact. It has a great metal finish on top making it look really premium. Personal recommendation untill you cannot get your hands on WD passport (not ultra) this Is the best you can get.
5|I had recently ordered this hard drive, The products of seagate dont need any reviews... They are among the best in its class... But the icing on the cake was d promt delivery by the amazon team.... Hats off.... I guess, for someone looking for a 1TB hard disk... this one will be a worthy choice...
5|I ordered this HD to store my old data from my laptop. As i have window and apple laptop. I was looking such HD which work efficiently with both type of laptop. Pros. Small size n very handy easily fit in your jeans pocket. light weight Nice data transfer speed. cons: as of not find anything.
5|Eventhough the delivery came a day late, even after paying 99 for one day delivery, i am happy now as the product is simply brilliant. Some people in their review complained saying that they were not able to register the product. But, I was able to register my product without any trouble. So far so good :D
5|The Product is awesome. It is so compact that my mobile i.e GRAND DUOS looks kind of big infront of it. It does not vibrate a lot. Seagate has provided a polythene wrap around the product, so the item does not get any scratch. It has only one cons , the usb connecting port is loose, other than that it is a good product to buy.
5|geniune prduct, overall nice experience in terms of warranty delivery product build quality etc i prefer seagate over wd passport ultra as you can create ntfs drive and install free driver on your mac that helps to read write ntfs drive and you can interchangably use drive b/w mac and windows.(best thing about seagate)
4|Amazon delivered it bang on time & it works like a charm..I use it as a Time Machine backup for my MacBook Pro. I have taken off one star only because I'm not completely satisfied with the cable provided with it...it's not a tight fit on the HDD end & doesn't feel completely snugged in..apart from that, it's a good product.
5|Super'b !!!
5|Good buy...
5|Superb HDD.
5|Its Awesome
5|Good device
5|Best value.
5|Nice.......
5|Thumbs up!!
4|Easy to use
5|Best in all
5|Perfecto!!!
5|Awesome??
4|Good one...
5|awesome exp
1|Not working
5|perfect buy
4|Nice prodct
5|Good price.
5|I love this
5|Good choice
4|Really Slim
5|as expected
5|Superb Deal
5|Pretty good
5|Excellent !
4|Very Good..
5|Works Great
4|Its awesome
5|OK good one
5|Loved it !!
5|Really good
4|best of all
4|Good one,,,
5|Great price
4|Fantastic !
5|Thumbs up!!
4|Liked this.
5|very useful
4|As expected
5|Plz help me
5|Excellent..
5|Perfect !!!
4|good one...
5|Good One!!!
5|Good Thanks
5|excellent!!
5|Perfect one
5|good choice
5|Best of all
4|Good one...
4|Nice one!!!
5|Excellent !
5|I loved it.
5|Good stuff.
5|Great drive
4|works fine.
4|Good design
4|Very useful
5|Super sleek
5|Amazing !!!
5|Very useful
4|Superb HDD.
4|Its awesome
5|Slim & works perfectly alright, it is smaller than your average 5.5 Inches smartphone. Normal transfer speed is 95 Mbps on USB 3.0 it never goes below 92 Mbps sometimes i even get up to 126 Mbps. I usually go for Seagate or WD (Western Digital) cause they're reliable. Good service from Amazon & seller 'cloudtail'
1|when I searched for wifi, I got this and purchased. But looked like, its just a cloud they interface with a software piece. Also, my registration did not go through and I received an empty email without any serial number and other details as my successful registration. Eventually ended up returning in with in an hour.
5|Using it in USB 3.0 with my HP Envy, speeds are sky-rocketing. Read and write both go over 100 MBPS. Write speed fluctuates between 80-120 MBPS (depends on the files). Excellent design and great colour option. The size is really small and very easy to carry around. Amazon service was excellent and packaging was also great.
5|Quality product received at lightening pace within 2 days of placing the order. The size is small & very light to carry around. This hard disk uses 3.0 USB port hence having a good reading & writing speed. I will surely recommend this hard disk to anyone who's looking for a large storage space at a reasonable price !
5|waited for long for a product like this.using since one month..awesome speed in copying data.easily connects to tab and laptop. wonderful as well as a must for those who wants to save pics/songs/movies/videos..its very sleek and easy to carry in pockets/purse.the weight is light so its convenient to carry all along
5|I am very happy with the purchase. Excellent harddisk. Those who are planning to buy this can go for it. But my advice please buy pouch with this coz my last HD got wasted when it fell off my hand for the fifth or sixth time. Prevention is better than cure. So buy a pouch for this coz data we store in this is precious.
5|it was a gift again to someone who is a big fan of seagate HDD's well for review easy to install slim/sleek in size, price wise ok not so competitive, bad thing only 1 hdd per user, I could have ordered more, but personally i like WD :P the cable received is of good quality for 3.0 i would say better than my WD one.
4|The speed and size both are appreciative. And as it's a brand as Seagate, so no need to say anything. But I reduced one star because of the amazon's packaging. Though it is listed as amazon fulfilled product , the packaging is very bad. The product would get easily damaged by a small pressure.
5|Fast and affordable, the Seagate Backup Plus Slim is one of the best deals on the market for those who want lots of storage space on the go. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is very fast and portable. The drive offers up to 930Gb of storage space, includes helpful backup software, and works with both Windows PCs
5|This is a good product, sleak and handy. I've purchased the black colour and it looks really good. The SEAGATE DASHBOARD Backup software makes it very simple to backup up PC data. I'd say its my bad luck that just after i've bought it the price slashed by rs.400/- .. haha.. well. not an issue. Totally Satisfied.
1|I bought this hard disk. But part number which is backside of harddisk is mismatching with hard disk cover. I even verified with seagate site. Guys please check your hard disk warranty with seagate, [...] This is my first big deal with amazon, its really upsetting. I hope Amazon looks into this issue.
4|Its a far decent product than 1st imagined . NO noises while copying files into the drive. Only thing that needs to be taken care of is the usb wire. Software wise Seagate should come out a little better as every 5 minutes a new window of the hard drive keeps popping up on the which turns out to be irritating
5|It was a competitive price in Amazon for this product compared to other big online retailers. Delivery was on time as promised. Packing quality was good and obvious seagate is always my choice when it comes to external hard disks. Product is also very slim, gives a nice look and good performance too.
5|Awesome hard disk. It is sleek and easy to carry. The best thing about this product it was Rs 750 less than the price on flipkart and other retails stores. Apart from the product the price point on amazon made my decision a no brainer. All I can say is with Seagate backup I always have a data back up from now.
5|Mast drive ....purchase it. It is worth of money. Never regradMast drive ....purchase it. It is worth of money. Never regradMast drive ....purchase it. It is worth of money. Never regradMast drive ....purchase it. It is worth of money. Never regradMast drive ....purchase it. It is worth of money. Never regrad
1|It was 4192 yday (30 May) and i tried to purchase it but it wasnt going through as when i go for the payment, it was again taking me back to the front page. I thought some system glitch and thought i will take make it today (1 Jun). Suddenly i see the price as 4,424/-... Very bad and pathetic pricing change.
3|This product is good,very sytlish design,fast service from amazon,very small in size,but the capacity is reduced by 93 gb. I mean to say that 1tb=1024gb but capcity available on the drive is only 931gb . the 93 gb space is used by seagate to run this device. This thing is baaad otherwise all things are good.
4|Pros: Product exactly as described. Easily compatible with mac as well as windows. Just needs to be formatted at once at the beginning and you are good to go. Great read and write speed. Cons: The cable is too loose at the hard disk end. Gets disconnected if used roughly.
5|awesome product at best price from amazon,delivered in 3 days. very sleek,light weight seagate hd,its the best 1tb hd I buy till now.I already have wd,transcend but they are not so lightweight and sleek at this price,transcend hd r tough but they r bigger.this is sleek,and lightweight,really like it.
5|It's really slim and USB 3.0 based. I also have Seagate FreeAgent GoFlex 1 TB USB 2.0 Portable External Hard Drive. Compared to this old model, the newer Seagate Backup Plus Slim Portable Drive is super thin. In addition the USB 3.0 runs 10x faster than USB 2.0 (5Gbps Vs. 480 Mbps)! Go for it.
5|Great Product it is. very Small in comparison to my 512GB seagate and 250 GB Seagate hard disk. I was able to be store all my previous data in hard disk enabling me to free up two hard disk. Happy to receive it in great price and superior delivery through FedEX. Though a case with it would be more apt.
5|Product is good and best buy considering the value. Value for need and money. Sexy look and small size to carry anywhere. Product doesnt gets heat if connected to long hours, device is cool. Rest technical details please refer the feedbacks, description, product comparing website and company's website.
5|Slim As i expected. First shopping experience with Amazon. i need not required even single time to customer care. Time required to receive product was slightly more but they delivered according to time specified from amazon. Product at present working very good. Hoping that it works for very long time.
5|I bought it for 4189/- and its amazing!! Really compact and fits in your pocket just like your mobile. The looks are classy and an amazing product for such a price. Not yet used the product thoroughly but with Seagate's branding I'm sure it'll be perfect!! Must buy for anyone who's looking to buy one.
5|Very good Hard disk. Slim and light weight Bought for 6500 Read speed 110mbps Write speed 50mbps No noise. A little vibration of spinning platter when touched Does not heat up very much. Cable length is 18 inches which is OK for portable disk Three year warranty
4|1. Fast Delivery : I got this product before estimated time. 2. Bad Packaging : No bubble wrap only hard paper packing. 3: Speed : Good speed of 60-65 MB/S on USB 3.0 4 Looks : In love with the looks. It so fits in your palm when you hold it. Light weight, Performance is good till now.
5|This was something I needed from a very long time Since I have my own youtube channel I needed more space to store my videos and this ones just the right thing i needed. I was confused which to buy i compared a lot of other HD before going for this one... but i must say its worth it...
4|I bought this a few months ago, still working fine. Very elegant and portable. However I've noticed a slight looseness on the wire connecting to the hard disk itself so I'd recommend unplugging the wire after use if you're using it with a laptop. An excellent product in terms of technical specs
3|Its good looking and compact. It have apt read and write speed.The good thing abt it it does't sound loud while reading/writing. BUT i guess there is a problem with its connector..i have to pug it twice so as my pc to detect it..don't knw why ?..if anybody have the same experience plz lemme knw
5|Fit delivered in 2 days. A nice looking product with very less weight. Hardly takes a minute to install driver and works very proper on all my usb ports. Just plug and is detected by computer instantly (i have seen hard drives which dont get detected for long time) so very satisfied till now.
5|The sexiest product ever seen,so slim yet powerful.. I'm very very satisfied with this machine love it man,please buy this if your looking for an handy yet spacious HD,I use it for Macbook and I'm quite satisfied with itz performance,even i use for time machine and itz awsome Peace ?
1|Its better to purchase WD elements ultra my elements than Seagate drive because it gives more speed . Seagate body is made up of plastic and it also gets heated very much. Seagate body is not attractive and also get damage if fall one time.Seagate provids speed of 15mbps which is very less .
5|Excellent. Works fine with windows. To use it with Mac you need to install a NTFS driver for Mac. The same can be downloaded from Seagate website. If you dont install the NTFS driver for Mac, the product will still work but you will only be able to read from the Hard disk but not write to it.
5|Last week i had purchased seagate 1tb backup plus through amazon.i am full satisfied. The drive came with bill and 3 years warranty from the bill date. we can check it through this page http://support.seagate.com/customer/en-US/warranty_validation.jsp. The transfer speed of file is so fast.
5|Very slim and handy. I feel my mobile phone is more in height and width. Very compact, can easily carry in pocket. Pros: Copying speed awesome Slim & Handy Cons: reading is bit slow on connecting to smart TV's Overall good product. I will recommended this.
5|Best one..
5|Good deal.
4|Looks good
4|It is good
5|nice..good
5|Awesome!!!
5|Wounderful
5|Good Piece
5|Best prize
5|No Comment
5|Excellent!
4|good speed
5|Outstading
4|very goood
4|Best Rates
4|Its good..
5|I love it.
4|superb one
5|good one..
5|Awesome...
4|Too good..
4|Nice mode.
5|Nice......
4|Exellent..
5|awesome !!
5|Good buy..
5|good drive
4|it is good
4|Good one..
5|its worthy
5|Works good
4|affordable
4|Best price
5|Very Good.
5|Amazing...
5|Good stuff
5|good sofar
5|soooper!!!
5|Good......
4|Good stuff
5|Loved it..
5|Very good.
4|Very good.
5|Awesome :)
4|i like it.
4|Its good..
5|Satisfied.
4|I liked it
5|it is good
4|A good buy
3|OK Product
5|very good.
4|very Nice.
5|very poor.
5|Awesome!!!
5|Very good.
4|slim handy
5|too Slim!!
3|It's good.
5|I liked it
3|ok good...
5|no thanks.
5|Gooooodddd
4|Its good..
5|Good price
5|It's good.
5|super good
2|ok ok type
4|Good stuff
5|Super cool
4|very cheap
4|Great deal
5|I love it.
5|This external HDD is a very compact & trouble free HDD, which has got good reviews internationally. And not expensive either, at sub-4300 Rs, considering the manufacturer's pedigree. Worth buying whenever there is an attractive offer (especially at 4K), if you require a 1TB external HDD.
2|I purchases this harddisk which amazon says cover with 3 years warranty and box of harddisk also highlight the same. But when i registered product online on seagate website, it show 2 years waranty only. Big disappointment from seeagate. Same issue highlighted to seagate but no response.
5|Its a nice little storage unit that fits right in your back pocket. Transfer speeds range from 30-65 mbps depending upon the computer you use it with. Registering warrenty with Seagate is advisable, opens a lot of avenues in case the unthinkable happens. Overall an amazing product!
5|Excellent, slim, light weight easy to carry and store data.. intially it got difficult to coonect to my windows machine.. due to lack of drivers. . I have been Googling to coonect to usb 3.0. Have to download drivers from online to get connected to machine. Overall the product is good.
5|Excellent piece of storage. Small and handy. Fast read / write performance. Having used both Seagate and Western Digital hard drives before I bought this one, I would recommend Seagate. That said, always backup your data, at least the important bits, to another hard drive if possible.
5|This Drive is really Good and very slim,Handy too. The Speed i get is around 29MBPS which is constant. The all over Design of this Product is really nice and the Led situated on the Top of it looks Beautiful in Dark.Metal Top is also feels good in Hand. Highly Recommended !!
5|It's look different from others External Hard Drive in the market. It's slim & short so it's easy to carry every where. It has metallic body so it's get cool easily. It's supported in desktop, laptop, tablet, & also in quality smart phones. Over all it's good. Thank you...
5|I am amazed by the speed of data transfer, it feels like data is being transferred from one hard disk partition to another. The size also is almost like my Nexus 4, which makes it very handy. For those who are looking for Mac compatible portable harddisk, this is the one for you.
4|Totally satisfied by this product. Seagate is the company on which you can trust in terms of computer peripherals. While transferring data, it works very fast. Still surprised that a small Hard-drive can store a data upto 1 TB ! If you're thinking to buy this one, you surely have to.
5|This is my first External Hard disk. It is verry good product. There are usb 2.0 also give 35-40 MBPS speed. The delivery of product is also verry fast. Before purchase this harddisk i not sure for this harddias performance. But its work perfectly . Thankyou Amazon.
4|Really impressed by features looks desig and delivery. When connected to laptop it asked for registration of product. When registered for warranty. It never shows anything if we put S/N no. Still no clarity shared by Amazon /seagate. Secondly guide need to be little more details.
3|i was very satisfied wid d product..writing speed is very fast.slim and smart look...but it is being heated terribly even after the use of only 10 mins..going for the replacement..don't know will face similar problem or not...very much disappointed with seagate as well as amazon.
5|2.5 inch format HDD which can fit in your pocket. speed is good in compare to previous versions. I bought it for my friend and tested at home. it works great. This should be with you instead of pen drive. with price of 32 gb 2 Pen drive, you can get this HDD. as i thought.
5|One of best portable drives. The fnish and quality is top notch. I took the black one. Ordered on 2nd march and got my delivery on 3rd march as i took in-a-delivery. slimmest portable drive in market available. Price is low in Amazon.in when compared to other online retailers.
5|I absolutely have no problems what so ever. I really like it's design, it's so thin and lightweight. The pricing here in amazon is absolutely spot on,very much less when compared to other sites. I definitely recommend this product to anyone who is looking for a 1 TB hard disk.
1|The product was not at all up to to my expectation. The memory got crashed within 03 months and I had to spend almost double to rectify it as I had my important documents to recover. On top of that rather than providing me a new product they provided the same after servicing.
5|Got the drive on time. Its really sim, easy to carry and use. The back up software is an additional advantage. Overall glad to have the product!! The product deserve 4 star+ and 5 stars to Amazon for making this item available at a very reasonable price of below 4k.
5|As usual amazon delivery was awesome good work...also the product is really compact it can actually for in your palm and it's feather lite..I have been using seagate products for a long time now experience is awesome no complaints so far.. I would definitely recommend it
5|Using this item for a while. First, shipment was well before expected time with good packing. Genuine item and new. Very comfortable in using, slim body and light weight. Performance is nice and no problem so far. Five star for the satisfying performance and portable design.
5|It's a great product from a trusted brand like Seagate and I have no problem whatsoever with the product. It is simply plug in, copy, paste and play, that's how simple it is and it easily installs the available software whenever you plug it in a new system rather seamlessly.
5|I m totally satisfied with this 2TB HDD Seagate Bacup Plus Slim, This review is from a hardcore user of Seagate HDD. This is my 4th External HDD. I purchased this on Diwali Lightning sale for just Rs.6501/-. This is the best discounted price one can get. Love you Seagate!!!
5|Being an IT professional i was searching for very good hard drive and after comparing with many other hard drives finally search ended on this,i found it different be its size ,looks, compatibility,price etc. You can go for it,you will love it.Highly recommended.
4|The product is good and as expected. I plug it to my LED TV and use it to show cartoons and other rhymes for my kid. This works good. But wehn you copy from laptop its somewhat slow. I was expecting this to copy contents more than 20 mbps. But its copys at hardly 15 mbps.
5|Best in this segment My led is not supporting my portable HD... Is this problem with my led or hdisk... Working fine on laptop and PC.. Rating 5 out of 5 ... Speed jhakkas Look jbardast I got this in sale at 1200 off feeling lucky. 3119
5|This is hands down the best hdd out there. its super slim and light. The metallic front gives it a premium feel. Read and Write speeds on USB 3.0 are just awesome. The only complaint I have is that the led on the front is not bright enough and does not flickr when in use.
5|The first things that comes to your mind is the looks of this little piece of tech. It is very compact easily fits on a hand or jeans pocket and it is very stylish too. Works like a charm,you get 971 gb user available storage, copying speeds are good. Overall a must buy.
5|Great product. This is the first time I brought a external hard disk for myself and I am loving it. Small, sleek and a super cool product. Amazons delivery adds to my joy. I had ordered on Sunday morning and got the product in-hand on Tuesday morning. That's super fast !
5|I loved it... Packaging was awesome. Delivered before delivery date. I got what I ordered. It is such a slim hard drive which can be kept in pocket. I got registered same day too. Wonderful product with this price. I will highly recommend this product. Thanks Amazon.....
4|Good: 1. Quality (4/5) 2. Speed (4/5) 3. Data Space = 931 GB (Avaliable) 4. Data Cable = 3.5/5 (Length is good but , Quality is Average) 5. Design: Slim ( I liked it, Easy to carry and to keep it). No Problem with the HD so far.
5|It is an excellent piece of external hard disc stands out among other brands by virtue of its performance. I am highly satisfied as now I am in a position to carry ally data in my hand when I go out. It's red colour is enchanting.in a nutshell it is sleek and aesthetic.
5|Was disgusted with SONY hard drive ( both the product and service support) and then decided to purchase this. Worth every penny ! Excellent form factor and high transfer speeds even with USB 2.0 ports. Tends to heat up a bit on prolonged usage, but that doesnt matter.
5|Bought it a month back. Works like a charm. Can backup contents from both Mac and Windows PC and move them seamlessly. Exactly the way I wanted. Fantastic speed of transfer and size is perfect to fit into the pocket. Got it for a great price at Amazon.
5|Excellent product from Seagate and value for money pricing and great service from Amazon. Got the parcel before expected date of delivery. The hard disk is so slim and easily fits in your pocket and write and read speeds are also good on USB2.0 and USB3.0 interfaces.
5|the hard disk is very small , light and extremely thin in comparison to other hard disks available in the market . it also has a feature which allows you to schedule your next backup and the files you want to backup and it automatically backs up all the data !
5|A grt product by seagate. data transfer rate is very very fast in usb 3.0. minimal weight, size like a mobile. highly appriciable product, design, performence in this price range. amazon is also very good. they delevered it within only one day. everyone can bye it
5|This is a very good and value for money product. i bought it on a very less price from amezon during diwali offer. Product is decent in look and sleek. data transfer rate is very good if we test it with USB 3.0 its a value for money product go for it.
5|Loved the product. Worth every penny. Write speeds of 30 - 40 mb in use 2.0 and max of 120 mbps in 3.0. It's so compact that it's smaller than most phones out there and metal casing gives the feel of the quality. Doesn't get hot and is very reliable product.
4|The wire is bit small. Also in the very first the transfer rate was not going beyond 7mb/s but in second attempt it has started from 43mb/s but reduced again to 8 mb/s dont know why. I was ugin USB3.0 port. Seagate is a trusted brand hence you can go with it.
5|It's been 8 months since I bought this and it's working like a charm. It's super slim, fits in your pocket. It takes a while to detect on my LG TV but it's not a big deal. Transfer speed is optimal. Overall, I'm totally satisfied with this product.
4|its a very nice, light and slimmer Hard Disk and even smaller than the 500 GB HD I had bought 3 years ago. Much easier to use and to carry. Thanks, Seagate and Thanks Amazon to sell it at an attractive price. Am very happy with it . Vinod Kumat
4|So far so good. It's been more than a month and the product is working fine. No problems detected yet. Good transfer speed . Slim . Very much portable. Doesn't heat up even after long use. People. Go for it . You ain't gonna regret about it. Cheers!
5|1 TB is enough for most to backup their important data. The drive is small in size, very handy and transfer rate is very fast as well. I am using with USB 3 and I am getting very good transfer rate. The delivery of the product was also in time. Thanks Amazon.
5|Awesome design and color,simply loved it.Uploading is fast and easy,connects to your TV too! I would recommend this product to everyone in search of a 1tb backup drive. Seagate is the brand to trust as their service centers offer great support to users.
5|Excellent
5|excellent
4|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Very nice
5|Its great
5|very good
5|very good
5|grt thing
4|Very Good
4|veri fine
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Very good
4|Nyc prdct
5|Very nice
5|Excellent
4|Its good.
5|Very good
5|Satisfied
5|Excellent
4|It's nice
5|Excellent
4|It's good
5|Its GOOD.
5|Excellent
5|very good
5|Excellent
5|Top Class
5|very good
5|Very good
5|Excellent
5|very good
4|Nice one.
5|Excellent
5|Good deal
4|It's good
4|Good.....
5|nice deal
4|Very nice
5|Excellent
5|It's fast
4|Very Good
5|Great one
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|It's good
5|Awesome!!
5|excellent
5|EXCELLENT
4|It's nice
5|excellent
5|very good
4|very good
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|Very good
5|excellent
5|Excellent
4|Good one.
4|Good deal
5|excellent
5|very good
5|Very nice
4|It's good
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Liked it!
3|it's good
5|excellent
4|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Very good
5|very nice
5|excellent
5|Excellent
5|Very nice
5|its good.
4|Very good
5|Excellent
4|very good
5|Excellent
5|good item
5|Gr8 .nice
5|excellent
4|very good
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|It's good
5|Its nice.
5|Excellent
4|very good
4|Very good
5|very good
5|Very good
5|excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|good one.
4|Very good
5|EXCELLENT
5|excellent
4|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Great...!
5|Very nice
5|very good
4|Very nice
5|good one.
5|its nice.
5|Very good
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|excellent
4|awesome!!
5|excellent
5|Very good
5|Very Good
5|very nice
5|Excellent
3|very good
4|Hardy hai
5|Very good
4|Very good
5|excellent
5|Wonderful
5|Wonderful
5|Good Deal
5|Fantastic
5|Excellent
5|satisfied
4|i like it
5|excellent
4|i like it
4|Nyc one!!
5|Very good
4|Good Buy!
5|excellent
5|excellent
5|Very Good
5|Very good
4|very nice
5|Very good
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
5|very good
5|excellent
4|Very good
5|Good one.
5|very good
5|Excellent
5|Fantastic
4|excellent
5|satisfied
5|Excellent
5|Good exp.
4|Excellent
4|It's good
4|Good one.
5|Very Good
5|A1 Amazon
5|Worth It!
5|Very Nice
5|good deal
5|very good
4|Good buy.
5|very good
5|very good
5|Excellent
4|Very nice
4|Nice deal
5|value bug
5|excellent
5|Worth it#
5|damn good
5|excellent
5|Its great
4|excellent
4|very good
5|excellent
4|good deal
5|very good
4|Satisfied
4|i like it
5|Excellent
5|cool onee
5|Very Good
5|Very good
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Excellent
4|Nice One.
5|Awesome!!
5|Superb!!!
5|Thank YOU
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|Very Nice
5|Excellent
5|i had lot of confusion wthr to buy tis product r not aftr seeing many previous reviews...yet i ordered !! and amazon proved me well !!...this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is in very good condition and more than satisfactory .
5|Transfer speeds in USB3/0 ports is off the charts/ Decent speeds on USB 2.0/ Sleek and good looking. Makes much less noise as compared to others in class. Overall a must buy if you are looking for a portable drive. I would place it on the top of the heap
5|The product is excellent. Very small and light weight, good writing speed (30-80 MBPS), great metallic sleek body. Overall the product is awesome. Great service by AMAZON. Nice packing and great delivery, delivered in less than 48 hours.
5|I BOUGHT THIS PRODUCT AT THE RIGHT TIME WHEN MY DATA STORAGE EXCEEDED MY COMPUTER STORAGE CAPACITY. THE DISCOUNTED PRICE OFFERED BY AMAZON CAME HANDY AND I BOUGHT AND RIGHT NOW I AM USING SEAGATE BACKUP PLUS SLIM 1TB EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE. THANKS AMAZON .
5|The delivery was well on time with intact packing. The product is pretty good with a very sleek design and performance on USB 3.0 was faster than expected. I am getting arond 70-90 mbps speed on the USB 3.0 port. Satisfied with the product and service.
5|I bought this during Diwali Festive season, Hard drive really functioning well. The most important thing to mention is it reaches me well before the due date. So overall it was very nice experience purchasing through Amazon. Keep up the good work
5|Very compact.. Descent read and write speed.. R/W on usb 2.0 : 30-40/20-30 Mbps on 1.5GB assorted files. Best among the class.. Value for the money. 931 GB Available on 1TB Get a harddisk case, to protect from scratches..
5|Really its awesome..very high performance, store data fast..I suggest you to buy this..now I have also..,,and delivery is also fast..i was ordered this item on one day before and recieved on accurate 2n day..order deliveres in 22 hrs.Happy with amazon
5|1. Lowest Price among all e-commerce site 2. Fast Delivery via best courier DTDC 3. Slim and compact in size 4. Abhi tak to satisfied hun age ki nahi kah sakta. So hope sab kuch achha rahe. Thanks & Regards Rakesh
5|Fastest and Slimmest of all the external hard drives available at this range, I bought it at the price of Rs 3870 from Amazon. No heating problem occurs even if you use it for couple of hours, noiseless and minute vibrations while transferring .
5|amazing hard dsik the size is totally slim we can take these product to anywhere easy a handle , data trasfer also good the speed maintain 25mbps , also the product had 3 years of warranty , it had metal finishing which gives better look............
5|First of all i want to thank Amazon for lightning fast delivery.guys this product is Awesome and i got this product on 21/3/15 and it's mfd was march 2015....so you can get 3 years of warranty.The hdd is a amazing choice for teens.so guys go for it!
5|At First i got only 30-35 MBPS..But after using for 2 weeks i get speeds upto 80MBPS (in USB 3). Excellent Buy!!! Light-Weight, great look and excellent dashboard utility! I bought it with a Neopack 2.5 inch Harddisk case. So its safe too!
5|1 High data rate.(USB 3.0) 2 Slim Design 3 Attractive Color. 4 Very Good Performance this hard disk is so awesome. it's the cheapest hard disk. it is unbreakable.i dropped it and there wasn't a single scratch. it's just amazing.
5|It has reached on time ....and has helped me a lot in terms of storing my data. Also, it is easy to handle and maintain and can be kept in a hand bag or even in your pocket. A good product, good delivery and finally from my side a good purchase :)
5|i like this product. strongly recommended for them who want to take daily backup of their system. if you want to store your files like images, audio and video files you can go with Seagate's simple external drive which is cheaper than backup plus.
4|This one is smaller than my phone ! Very slim and I get good transfer speeds. Loved the product ! And thanks to amazon for selling it at cheapest price on Internet.. If amazon had provided a hard disk pouch, it would have been perfect !
4|Its Fine & good working having its Warranty certicate stored in PDF. and Only issue which makes me feel bad is its actual capacity is 930 GB only!!!. I paid for almost 90 GB excess which actually doesnt exist..!!! Rgds Srivastav
5|It looks very cute. Gorgeous. It is working really faster than other disks, lying with me. I need to explore other goodies like software and online support from Seagate. So to wait to write more about it. Recommendation.... Yes can have this one
4|Pros Value for money External HDD transfer rates are very good. No heat/noise noticed after prolonged use. Cons If the case was rubberized it would have been much better. Length of the USB cable is very short.
5|This is a gem of a product, Pocket sized, very small and doesn't require any external power supply with Excellent transfer speed on USB2.0 and above ports, compared to my old HP hard drive. It's just perfect for my day to day needs.
4|Its a good product. It is very light and portable. It gives 30MBps on USB 2.0 and around 100MBps on USB 3.0. But after a month, it started malfunctioning. But Seagate replaced me a new one within 2 weeks. But I lost all my data in the old one.
5|Great Hard disk. amazing performance on usb 3 This hard disk from seagate is very slim and small and very good looking. Performance 100+ MBps for read on USB 3 85+ MBps for write build quality is good.
4|It is sleek and works like a charm. Best thing about the Amazon was the delivery, it was delivered on Sunday, Was expecting the disk to be delivered on monday, but was surprised to receive on sunday afternoon. Only 931GB is available for use.
5|Its a nice product in less price. First of all the product delivery by amazon in awesome with nice packing. 2nd thing is the device is small, compatible and easy to carry.and also the speed is nice. Go for it.
5|Its great, better than i expected, too handy, easy to carry anywhere. Its just like a phone in your pocket. Light weight! Amazing! Fully packed n protected, no damage at all. N comes for a good price too as compared to other stores or sites!
5|Seagate hard disk is so awesome, such a thin drive ... Gud look and stylish..Amazon service so gud ..I got my hard disk early morning can't think it was deliver as early ... Thanks Amazon....5 star for the product and 5 for the service ...
5|Really slim as they say-Works as per expectation-Genuine warranty (Checked on Seagate portal)-Packet says-2 Years but its actually 3 Years. Seagate Dashboard feature adds to ease of use like Backup can be scheduled and all.Overall Good Buy.
5|The product was delivered on time and had been packed nicely. I own a couple of other 1TB EHDs but this one is significantly lighter and smaller. Transfer rate is excellent by current standards. I would recommend a hard case cover for this.
5|Basically this will sort all my storage needs for atleast the next 5 years.haha! Amazingly light and data transfers are brilliantly fast. Product is definitely worth a buy. Amazon did not disappoint and delivered within the committed date.
5|Brilliant Sleek Design, while others just say its slim. No problems regarding detection. At a good price. Got it 3 days before the expecting date. Thank You Amazon for such a good hard drive at a very convenient price.
5|thank goddd.. i finally had it. My laptop is just started crashing and this thing saved my life. Backup plush the best product. ANd yea. i got 600 GBs of movies. lol .I got huge movie collection now. As well as my office private backups !
1|Very bad experience I had this time, this hard drive stop working within 15 days. When I called up cussed are they told me that product is out of warranty.
3|10 stars for Amazon delivery. The product came within 15 hrs of placing an order without paying a single extra penny for quicker order. Disappointed with Seagate though. The hard disk is hardly red n hardly of the material it seems to be
5|Excellent product, cute in look, light in weight. The price was cheap, by amazon. Now I enjoying the extra space, I breath easily. Thanks to amazon; advance thanks to seagate under the hope that, my data will be safe
4|Very much recommended at this price. Use usb 3.0 and see the speed. Size is very compact and fits as a smart phone. Read and write speed is appreciable using usb 2.0 and the best when used on usb 3.0 ports. A must have..
4|recieved 1 day back , got in lightning deal on price 3899, first look impressive and sleek, slightly up price than competitors, but this is SEGATE so deserve it. performance ok, if it last more than 2 yr it will be worth speding.
1|i bought it from amazon india..within one month seagate hard drive dosent work properly..then i go to customer care for replacement of it...though i got product replaced...but this was my first experience with amazon and it was bad...
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) SeagateSeagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) SeagateSeagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive (Black) Seagate
4|Hard drive is excellent but the software Seagate Dashboard is not good. To back up 30 GB of my data it took about 4 hours. Just transfer your files as you normally do with other drives, don't use that dashboard software to transfer.
5|The transfer speed is little bit slow when connected to use 2.0 port but it should do well on usb 3.0.It is very slim and handy(like a wallet).It is worth buying!!!go for it....and it is more reliable than the WD external HDDs!!!!!
4|Its as good as expected. The read and write speed match my expectation. I am fully satisfied with this awesome product of Seagate. Moreover, Amazon is also very punctual at their service. They delivered it well within the deadline.
3|Are you kidding or what????? I bought it half a year back at 4199/- and now it is listed for 4935/- I love it .. Its slim, looks classy and speed is ok-ok.. I use it on mac air and still hasn't encountered any issues.
5|This drive is much smaller than most other 1tb external portable drives. Data write speed is also good. I am using this as an encrypted time machine disk for my iMac and MacBook Pro and it works well with both of these systems.
4|great product from seagate. easy to install.easy to handle.speedy delivery by amazon.however the packing of this product was not seems to be of amazon standard.Need little more attention on packing for the electronic product.
4|The product is excellent, I would suggest people to go for it as I feel the hardware quality is good. Do not go for expansion drives, go for this product , it is the best. The seller is also very good, delivers the goods fast.
1|1. i like the external hard disc (amazon product) because it is very light weight, easy to carry 2. First time I am purchasing this product. after useage of at least 6 months, I will be able to comment on its performance.
4|Actually I bought it 3 days ago, I'm well satisfied with customer care. The transfer speed of my hard disk is 72 mb /s from my PC to hard disk and 29 mb/s for hard disk to hard disk.I'm OK with the performance. No overheating
5|Good product and helpful. It is really small and light weight product. The speed of the data transfer is also good. I liked the product. 5stars for packaging, protection and performance.Cute design is an addition.
3|i had booked the black hdd but i have got it the metalic color hdd....!!!! whyyyyy....??? its all fault of amazon.... mind it.... its not fair..... they have change my hdd color... i dont kiked this.... but hdd is good.
4|The product is very good. 4k is reasonable price. Fast transfer with usb 3.0 very slim and portable..good looking too. However not satisfied with delivery. Product was delivered 15 days after the expected delivery date.
5|First i thank amazon for providing this nice product Pros: Nice product with average read write speed of 100 MBps in USB 2.0 and i believe in USB 3.0 it is high Very Slim and Very cute Cons: No
5|It's very compact and the price is very competative. It's value for Money. Hats-off to Amazon. so far so good. No issues encountered. If any service required in future, have to see how Amazon is different from others...
1|After less than a week the HDD stopped working under Windows, due to bad sector problem. Most unreliable , never expected such a bad product from Seagate. And found many other buyers have similar complaints. Do not buy this.
5|My friend brought it for me from amazon and the product is really thin and the material quality is also very good , i have still not tested the read and write speed but the product performs very well in windows 8.1 laptop.
5|Good product. The backup plus software provived me a backup of my whole PC and my Mobile Phones in a very efficient and easy way. Keeping my files in the hard disk in the same way i have arranged in in desktop. Great work!
5|Amazing Products & prompt Delivery from Amazon. Seagate always was & is the best EHD Brand to look up at as they are in this for a long time. Using it with my MAC was very simple & easy, USB 3.0 Did its wonders.
4|good one
4|good one
4|Best Buy
5|worth it
5|vvv good
5|all good
3|Good buy
5|EXCELENT
5|Good Buy
5|good one
5|Good one
5|Good one
5|GOOD ONE
4|good one
5|GOOD ONE
5|V good .
5|Good one
5|Good one
5|Awesome!
5|Nice one
5|Good buy
5|its good
5|Fabulous
5|nice one
5|good one
5|loved it
5|The best
5|go fr it
4|Its good
5|Good one
5|good one
5|ten star
4|Good one
4|its good
5|Great!!!
4|Its good
4|Good buy
4|Nice one
5|All good
5|good one
4|Good one
5|The best
4|Too good
5|nice one
4|liked it
5|Good one
5|Good one
5|Worth it
5|Good one
5|good one
1|very bad
4|Its good
4|Awesome.
5|God item
4|its good
5|Good One
4|its good
4|best buy
5|Good one
5|loved it
5|NIce one
5|Awesome.
5|Nice one
5|GOOD ONE
5|gOOD BUY
5|good one
4|Nice one
4|Its good
4|Good One
5|good one
5|Awesome!
5|good one
4|super...
5|Is good.
5|Nice One
5|Awesome!
4|Good buy
4|Gut prod
5|Nice one
5|Great...
3|good buy
5|Good one
5|good one
5|ultimate
5|Good one
5|Nice one
5|Its good
5|worth it
5|its good
4|Good one
5|Its good
5|Gud item
5|its nice
4|Good one
3|its okay
4|Its fine
5|Received
5|good one
4|good one
4|Its good
4|good one
5|worth it
5|Good HDD
5|Gud onee
4|Good one
5|gud item
5|Good buy
5|Its good
4|good one
5|ok. good
5|THE BEST
5|Awsome!!
4|25 mbps.
4|Was good
4|Good one
5|Its good
4|Good :-)
3|Not bad.
4|good one
5|exellent
5|its nice
5|too good
5|Good ONe
5|Good one
4|Great...
4|Great...
5|Worth it
5|Its nice
5|Good one
5|Its goog
5|best HDD
5|Time, Space and Cost saving. We used to have backups on CD and DVD which was time consuming. Again we had to verify on another system if the backup was successful, which was time consuming. Now it is just copy and forget.
4|The Portable External Hard Drive met my expectations in terms of dimensions and performance. It would have been excellent if an inbuilt security feature to secure the content in the device from unauthorized was available.
5|Received Original & Excellent Product from Amazon Seller .....Very light weight......Just One issue is wire is of good quality but not getteing straight easily..........Seagate need to Improve the Pocket for Wire........
4|It's Seagate at usual. This is my 3rd Seagate external HDD. And it's just do the job efficiently. It's affordable, speed is ok. Though build quality could be better, especially the finish lack the finesse.
5|Pros: + Its Sleek and slim + Its pretty light weight + It performant + Comes bundled with free backup software Bonus: * Lucky me, I got it at nearly half its price with Amazon Deals :)
5|Awsome Product. Amazon delivered it within proper time frame. It is working fine and has to agree that it is very stable too. Thank you amazon for providing such service. Enjoying my product. It has a good capacity too.
5|It's awesome. It's small, sleek and light weight. Has premium finish. No noise or vibration. Backup software is too good. Checked the s.no of the product in Seagate website for warranty, and yes you get 3 year warranty.
5|Wonderful product at a very good price. Seamless experience of buying it and got the delivery on time. Easy to use for backing up your data. Recommended to anyone looking at buying an external hard drive for storage.
5|Well today I get my 1tb seagate hard disk very handy even Its smaller them my sony xperia z2 iam really impressed with the size and body, so guys don't miss the opportunity to grab this hard disk. Thanks seagate.
5|Pros: Amazon Service - Fast and Reliable. Product: Too good. Best in this range. Cons: Amazon Service - Soft Copy of invoice would do a lot good. Please start providing one. Product: None
4|Fast delivery from ATS.But packing could have been better About the product....Wow...nice...It is very thin and easily goes into your shirt packet and i'm happy with the performance also...recommended to buy
5|Quality HDD with white led and USB 3.0 support. The product is of good quality. More than a month have passed, and it is working fine.... Speed varies while copying, depending upon the data type which you are copying.
5|The product is same what uvget in the market but the pricing is very good...its really cheap then market...when I asked the shopkeeper about the price difference...he says he also purchase the hard disk from Amazon...
5|Really a great product!! Worth the money.. and its very slim( Only the thickness of a standard mobile phone) and small Transfer speed is also very good ( Write: 80-90 MBps and Read: 95-105 MBps )
5|the delivery was very fast.i am happy the price was very competitive.actually iwanted to buy only a 512 mb disk.instead i chose this offer because almost for the same budget i could get a 1 tb drive of a reputed brand
5|I have been using it for few days and I found it compact, handy and portable. I have found no issues till date in its usage. A good product for saving information and also convenient for traveling cause of small size.
5|This is my third purchase of Seagate 1 TB hard disc. And i love this cute and slim model. If you want to purchase any electronic item or other things, I prefer to you guy's always purchase only and only from Amazon.
5|It's tiny, even smaller than my phone (Moto G 2nd ed.), and it performs incredibly well without even heating up after hours of usage. Worth every rupee spent. I just wish it came in more colours, black is boring now.
5|Its an awesome hard dive in 1 TB group,I personally suggest this product,it is a worth buying product with no issues(such as heatup or warantee) of any kind.If u r looking to buy a HDD just go for it awesome product.
5|Value for money kind of thing. A big thing in a small pack great product.. Got this for just 3699.. At Amazon ?. Just the right kind of storage I want for my data... Great product that delivers a great performance..
5|More than happy with my this purchase. The seagate backup plus slim 2 TB is worth of money for just Rs 6989 only! The product is working fine. Super slim, good transfer speed, no need of external power.. A deam hdd!
5|I have been using this for a month now. The backup software is quite user friendly and updates itself with the latest version in the market. Quite sleek and easy to use. Now I rely on it for my hard disk backup.
5|Very good product at a very affordable price only at Amazon.in i.e. @3999. There is no doubt about the product quality, reliability & Support of Seagate. Best build, looks & Data Transfer rate with the slim design.
5|Very good external hard drive that has NTFS software for Mac included (though that software has been tweaked to only work with Seagate hard drives). Compact with good speed and brushed metal finish is nice as well.
5|Great item.. very small & light.. easy to carry.. reading & writting also very fast.. packaging was good & safe enough.. go for it.. you will not regret.. thank you amazon for delivering items in small towns also..
4|Very Good product! Only problem is price is a little high for 1TB External HD, but the overall product is amazing. You can buy it. Seagate backup features are available which is a good option to lookout.
5|This is as good as it gets for the price range. Great value for money. This is much slimmer and faster than the old backup plus. What I don't get is the huge price gap between the different colours of this model.
5|Seagate backup plus slim 1tb hard drive is very slim,compact,handy to carry and very useful drive to.store ur data. Its a highly recommended product. Last but not the least.....amazon.service was simply amazing.
5|Got it for Rs. 3800, a great bargain compared to shops and other online stores. It has been more than a fortnight and is working fine for now. Gives great transfer speed. The sleek casing is a satisfying perk.
5|Superb... Mind-blowing... More than what was expected... Fully satisfied... Amazon in just he BEST...!!!! with World's Best Services... Recommended... Stress-less Shopping...
5|Excellent delivery and price. Can't believe just how small this is for a 2TB hard disk drive. Using this as a Time Machine Capsule for an iMac running Mac OS X 10.10 (Yosemite) and it seems to work very well
5|My PC with got backed up in nearly an hour... With the built in software... USB 3 is super fast... And Seagate is undoubtably one of the best in storage devices... So, no more words to say.. Just go for it..
5|Super awesome in function,top class in in looks and wonderfully light and doesn't even make noise while working. I highly recommend this product. Amazon was as usual great in delivering &packaging
5|Found just what I needed. Very slim and compact. The transfer speed is around 100 mbps when connected to USB 2.0 ports. Works great and people are surprised to know that I bought it for only 4k from Amazon.
5|no regrate .. worth buying it. compact in size, nice design. no issue with data transfer rate. I bought it in 4250/- and is very good.. need 1TB just go for it without any other thought
5|Really Slim and sturdy from Seagate. Awesome product from Seagate. Using it as a backup drive and with USB 3 connectivity am getting good speed. Got it delivered on time. Thanks to Amazon. Keep it up guys.
5|The first that you will notice when you take this HDD out of the box is the sheer size, this this is really tiny. The built quality seems to be good. I bought it for around 4k, definitely worth the price.
5|For a portable external hard drive, the most important features are reliability, build quality, size, and weight… Seagate Backup Plus Slim scores high in all those features. 85MB/s read & write
5|So far so good. Transfer Speeds up to the mark. Built quality is top notch, worth the extra bucks I should say. I've no benchmark numbers but is a trusted brand so hopeful that it doesn't give away soon.
5|hdd is too slim and slik....very handy....working 24mbps in 2.0 and 55mbps in 3.0....looking very good....the best hdd i ever had...just love it...most recommended....but the delivery was very slow....
5|I needed a collection of the videos of the sermons , I give in different churches. It is really useful and is compatible. It is east to carry and the downloading and uploading speed is good. Good.
5|This is a very small yet well built device and can fit to your pocket. just go for it. Amazon packaging was very good and it was delivered within same day (special request).
5|Thanks Amazon... Nice online shopping experience. I would like to recommend the product for all. slim and light weight.. data transfer speed is also very good. 1 gb in less than 10 seconds. wow!!!
5|This Product is slim, looking so light weight and future inside need to improving is want this product also, overall this this product in good but is need to best. I am so like this this product.
5|Slim and sleek with matte finish. It is a perfect combination of quality and good looking..... No complaints works great with my mac and windows. Backup option is also pretty cool...
4|Pros: - light weight - fast - beautiful color - quick delivery Cons: - very delicate - Cable is short( its not a 18 inch cable as given in the specifications)
5|Perfect
5|Gud one
5|Exlient
5|Amazing
5|Amazing
5|good :)
5|love it
5|awesome
5|awesome
5|Perfect
5|Its grt
5|Awesome
5|Love it
5|Perfect
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|Awesome
5|awesome
4|Good...
5|Amazing
5|exelent
5|Amazing
5|superb.
4|Awesome
5|Superb.
5|awesome
4|Great !
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|awesome
5|Awesome
5|Love it
5|Awesome
4|Nice...
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|Awesome
5|5 Star.
5|Awasome
5|Awesome
4|Gud one
5|awesome
5|Exelant
5|love it
5|Fabulas
5|Love it
5|Perfect
5|awesome
5|working
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
5|awesome
5|perfect
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|Good. .
5|Amazing
5|Love it
5|Amazing
5|Awesome
5|Awesome
4|nice :)
4|Awesome
5|Love it
5|5 stars
5|Awesome
4|ok good
5|good HD
4|nice...
5|Awesome
4|like it
1|i brought this product last year and it is a very good product...but it can't protect your data when it falls from a very small height ..and it stopped working when it fell from my car seat to the base of the car on the first week of my purchase ..and the customer service is the worst of all...i had given him my hdd but i didn't get one in replacement last year ..but i got nothing in response and i never hope to get one(response and hdd) pros: good ..light weight..and so.. cons: -not reliable -worst customer service -no replacement or takes a hell lot time.. -worst of all i lost my data.... -waste of money
5|Harddisk packed well...i didn't check the harddisk data transfer speeds..it looks very slim and compact.this harddisk fit in your jean & shirt pockets.thanks amazon for the best deal..
5|Working very good & best data transfer rate. Working very good & best data transfer rate. Working very good & best data transfer rate. Working very good & best data transfer rate.
3|The harddisk was really good. Copy speed was better. But the harddisk went undetected after a tiny shock exerted on that. Now all my data is lost, Couldnt recover any.
5|Excellent backup product...back up's your last modified files...social networking pictures...and mobile contacts and other stuff ...very easy to use....must buy this product....
3|Before buying it, I read the reviews. Most reviews said copying speed was 100 Mb+/S but it is copying only 11-15 MB/S so to copy 500 GB it is showing 14 hours!!! Disappointing.
5|I am already using Seagate backup plus. This Slim model really breks d law of physics. Its a sheer beaUty, high capacitY and guarntee of seagate. Dont think twice....
5|Amazon without any retail inventory on its own, did surprise me by offering lowest price compared to other retailers :) Great job guys.. keep going with excellent price offers.
1|The Product came faulty
5|Did not expect it to be so small ! Its definitely the smallest 1TB HDD in the market. The read and write speed i got on usb3 are around 100MBps and 55MBps respectively.
5|I meet all expectation what i want...Really competitive price & chief rate among all other traders...I always use to bye any product through amazon only...Thank you amazon..
5|Arrived in two days flat. Before time delivery. As usual Seagate products are impeccable in design and performance. Very good hdd and transfer rates on USB 3.0 are good.
5|Product was in excellent condition and checked at Seagate site with serial number and found product is original and genuine. Warranty was displayed as given on product.
5|I AM USING SEAGATE HARD DISKS SINCE 2001. SEAGATE PRODUCTS ARE VERY GOOD AND THIS TIME I GOT IT FROM AMAZON ON A UNBELIEVABLE PRICE EVEN CHEAPER THAN NEHRU PLACE PRICE.
1|Big Mistake buying this hard disk.. Stopped working in 2 months.. Seagte Service is the worst.. They never respond and its practically impossible to track the status..
5|very good performance...good usages..safty store mportant docments, picture, vdeos etc moreover...wasy to cary....it can be used whenever we need..compact & slim
5|Now I can copy 1Gb of data in a flash. Avg speed is: 40-50Mbps (USB 3.0). Can't ask for a better product than this. Kudos to Seagate for such a high class product.
5|I had purchased 2TB back up plus hard disk. Excellent product easy to use and very light weight best in the market. wanna purchase another one , full five stars..
5|Very happy with the deal. Will shop with Amazon more often. Compared it with other sites and saw that I was getting the same HD for almost 600 bucks cheaper here.
5|Seriously seagate is best in its class.The hard disk is super slim which fits easily into your jeans pockets.The transfer speed is also awesome.Go for it guys!!!
5|I am satisfied with the product which i bought through Amazon but i wish you could have give me discount offer on HDD pouch at the time of purchase. thank you!!
5|Amazing product !!!!!!!!!!!!! I never realised that such type of electronic product would be available at best rate and best deal. Thankyou Amazon.
5|I ordered seagate backup Plus Slim 1TB portable External HD at Amazon. The best part was the lowest price and the on-time delivery. The product looks perfect.
5|Very good buy, satisfied my need of storage/backup. Tried it multiple times, easy to use. Would suggest to anyone who wants to ensure backing their data.
5|I fully recommend this product for people who wants to used the product on different OS. Otherwise too, its worth the price. Got the cheapest rate on amazon.
4|Good..
3|gooood
4|superb
5|Superb
4|good .
5|Superb
5|2TB!!!
5|Superb
5|V good
5|Superb
4|Great!
5|5 star
5|superb
4|superb
4|its ok
5|Superb
4|Good !
5|Awsome
5|Thanks
4|Awosme
5|v.good
5|fab!!!
4|superb
5|Great!
3|its ok
5|Great!
4|v good
5|Superb
4|decent
5|superb
5|Superb
4|Useful
4|good..
5|Awesome look and product ... So Slim and fine to hold... absolutely in love with my new addition. Value for money.. Dont think.. Go right-away to purchase.
4|its good but not great as compare to WD.. only 931gb usuable memory in 1TB hard disk... ??? a big loss.. registered for warranty with segate.. no problem..
5|This is very slim product in size as well as very good in terms of speed of backing data. Also fast in coping data compare to my old Seagate 1T Hard drive
5|Wonderful product. Very Small and thin. easy to carry in pocket. Very reasonable cost. And the name of seagate guaranteeing product. Value for money buy.
4|Delivered in time. Although it was described as 2 TB portable external hard disk, but in reality it has only 1.81TB space. Otherwise it is working good.
5|Good product.... Slim and small size makes it very handy for carrying purpose.... Nice packaging and fast delivery from Amazon.... Nice experience!! ?
5|Works fine. gives an average of 40 mb/s read and write speed. It was delivered within 4 days. Nice and really slim for a 1tb hard drive. great product.
4|Very Good product, so far no problem at all - its my second seagate external harddisk. Earlier Seagate is of 512mb which is with me from almost 3 yrs.
5|My iMac immediately detected the hard drive and started using it as a backup. There is a groove on the port on the drive.. it is a feature not a bug..
5|Quick Delivery, excellent product, as it is light weight and small in size almost like a smartphone, would recommend everyone a cover to keep it safe
5|I loved it.. Slim and fast... Good Price Right choice AMAZON for all original products.... Happy to be a AMAZON customer..
5|Deliverd on time. Prodfuct looks compact and sleek and most importanly supports windows and mac without any reformatting. Good product for the cost
5|Good Service, Good product. Very compact and convenient to travel with. Lets hope it keeps working this way. Thumbs up to Seagate and Amazon.
5|Really thank you so much for your fast service. when i need this HDD You send me at perfect time only in 1 n half day. really nice
5|Really thank you so much for your fast service. when i need this HDD You send me at perfect time only in 1 n half day. really nice
5|Segate stood up to my expectations, Great Transfer Speed and Reasonable Price, and its smaller size makes it possible to take anywhere we require.
5|excellent size, beautiful color, slim hard drive, high performance high speed. I am very happy with this product, Thanks Seagate.............
5|I advice u all to buy this product... Working well.. Compact design....and gives great transfer speed of about 70-80 mbps in usb 3.0 port...
5|Light weight but feels a little fragile, so needs careful handling. Received the shipment in time and packaging was neat as expected with Amazon.
5|Product is very slim and light weight. Good one and very much satisfied I recommend this to first time buyers of External hard drives
5|The External HDD is really slim backed with Seagate quality. Performance was superb. Amazon's price was the lowest for this product.
5|Actually, i love it the color and the metallic finish.Well, iis pretty compatible due to its small size and its really speedy.Recommended to all
5|a complete package from Seagate. Relatively Smaller size in the 1TB league. Additional backup gives it the edge. Overall, a very sound product.
5|The product is excellent, it's really slim, too small, Amazon's service is excellent... Ultra slim white LED indicator looks beautiful...
5|Received the product with in 24 hrs....great services. keep it up.. and the product is very good and Amazon price is the least in the market.
5|A good product from Seagate. Recommended. Price is little higher in compare to other companay's hard drive. But it is easy to use and handy.
5|wow very slim ad portable,no issues with working like a charm,i was able to register it online and even got the 200gb cloud storage.......
5|I got the product in two days. Was very well packed and the product working fine. :) Thanks Amazon team. Keep up the good work.
3|Old Hitachi USB 2.0 harddisk is faster than Seagates USB 2.0 inteface. USB 3.0 transfer is very good. I got 120 MBPS read speed
5|Excellent service.aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa a a aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa. @@ a
5|COD deliveries are relly late. I guess tht the case with every ecom store. Else everything else was great. Thank yu amazon. All the best.
5|it is good this time i have not mention properly address whenever my product reached at timing it is good service and very useful for me.
5|it is very ;slim and solid. Very reliable. Data transfer is speed and usb-3 compatible. i love it. i am using for 6 months no complaints
5|It is very slim and working performance is also so good. Congrats to the Amazon team where as prices are low with other related websites
5|It was really good, good data transfer speeds (upto 60 MB/s) and the best thing is its size. It's really slim compact and good looking.
5|Really i like Amazon. Good Services, good response, good qualitity. Courier Services is very good and very fast. Really i Like Amazon.
5|Looking nice, slim..... Working well........... I very happy to have this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB portable External Hard Drive.
5|The product was delivered in perfect condition. Original product with hologram seal intact. Very good quality for a very good price.
1|The HD crashed and I lost all my data within 3 months of purchase. Although Seagate promises a replacement, I still lost all my data
5|Very compact size .... excellent features ... social media connectors. And received it in less than 24 hours of placing the order !!
5|product is cool and perfect. it fulfill its purpose and perfect data transfer rate. cheap , best in its class and handy.go for it...
5|Very Good quality product by Seagate. I like this very much. Nice build & finishing. I personally recommend to all buyers.
5|Its fantastic!! One should try this one to satisfy space needs... also is has low price compared with the others... frm amit dravid
5|I compared the price on google and then bought it. Working perfectly. I recommend it for everyone. I can bet you will love this one
5|Good service by Amazon. Quality of product and service response is extremely good.Packaging is very good. I like service of Amazon.
5|Working fine. No trouble till now. :i am very happy with the product. Would recommend others also to go for this slim backup drive.
5|the product was very nce... apart from the product they packedof the product very nice so tat it cant go wrong while transport...
5|has got NTFS drivers for write capabilities in a mac which was welcome.Build quality is also good without being bulky and heavy.
5|Its Very good Product So cute and light weight I am strongly recommends this product its have three year warrenty
5|Quick file transfer as it contain USB 3.0 and easy to carry. Slim Portable Back up software Value for money!
1|The hardisk ,although slim, is easily corruptible. After just month, the harddisk just stopped detecting in any of the systems.
5|I needed this seagate backup plus to store my data. It is very useful now. Need to know more about how to use this efficiently.
5|File Transfer Speed crosses the 70 MBps mark.. Fabulous Product , very compact ,slim and lightweight and at a GREAT PRICE.
5|Great hard drive. Very light, which was important for me, and good write speeds on USB 3.0. Worth spending a few hundreds extra
5|I think i got my requirement. Let me see how it works. So far i could able to take backup but still mobile back is not getting
5|The product meets my expectations, slim and fast. I have to test it with a USB 3.0 though. The delivery is on time. Thank you.
5|Exellent service by AMAZON , i ordered last night & today morning 8.30 a.m i received the order. Keep it up amazon.
5|great
5|super
4|Good.
5|Great
4|Good.
4|Nice.
5|Great
5|Great
4|Good.
4|Good!
5|Good.
5|great
5|Worth
4|super
5|Nice!
5|Great
3|Ggghh
5|Nice.
4|It ok
4|abcde
5|Great
5|great
5|Great
4|Good.
5|super
5|Sleek
2|Worst
5|great
4|Good.
4|great
4|Good.
5|super
4|great
5|Great
4|Great
5|Good1
5|goood
5|Good.
5|super
5|super
5|SUPER
5|good.
5|faaad
4|Grear
4|Good.
5|Good.
5|Great
5|great
4|Super
5|Great
5|great
5|Good.
4|Good.
4|Good.
5|great
5|Good.
4|great
5|super
5|Super
4|handy
4|VGood
5|Ultimate speed!!! Just love it!!!! Sleek, faster, easy to use, back up, small in size!!!!!!! It is just awesome !!!
3|They have given setup files software, if any system having Virus, the setup files are not installed. That's the major problem of this device. why because we need back up the entire system, if teh software is not installed whats use of this device. if the system not having the Virus. It works good and have verified on different Operating Systems. Other than that, this device simple Super.
5|The seagate products are best for electronics. Use it & puchase it from amazon in least amount just i got in 30% discount..
3|Seagate 1 TB HardDisk performs well.Backup files are safe.eventhough copying and retrieving data is not userfriendly JAYAN
1|Is this seagate external hard disk drive supports otg cable in dell venue tablets...please help me about this....thank you
5|Great hard disk. I bought it for 4185rs. and after 2 days price dropped by 7%(291rs). But products of Seagate are awesome.
5|Without any doubt gives supreme performance, especially for backups, even better than WD. Unbeatable in backup. Great buy
5|IT is good and comfortable to handle, the speed is good, Request have multicolor for each capacity so easy identification
5|IT is good and comfortable to handle, the speed is good, Request have multicolor for each capacity so easy identification
5|grate and very slim hhd work grate Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable thank's amazon for grate deal 80 mb per sec
5|Slim, small and good looking. I read earlier in the review it really smaller then the cellphone. All in all good product.
1|Not good as it has stopped working within 7 days.The computer was not detecting and in lost all the data.Not recommended
1|i got a defective piece, it dint work at all, now i have given it to service centre, waiting for their response.........
5|Looks amazing, fits easily in pocket, good data transfer speed and a nice backup software too... what else we need !!!!!
5|It's my first new 1 TB HDD Hard drive slim and compact fast data trasfering easily to carry in the pocket
5|at this price range with Seagate brand, you cant get better than this. 4th Seagate hard disk, never got disappointed...
5|Awesome , really useful and better price on net. I used makkhi choose to select this.use it everyone. Jaihind iluvindia
5|Was very impressed with this External USB 3.0 1 TB Hard disk, also cool feature is the free Cloud Storage subscription.
5|Good product with simple and unique design.worth buying at 4050. I have also registered it successfully for warranty.
5|Very good product good size easy to carry. Fast downloading. 2TB large storage. I like the product. Thanks to seagate
5|Seagate is always best. Copying speed is good & very small in size also a big advantage. Thanks SEAGATE Via AMAZON.IN
5|It's value for money product you will not get USB 3.0 in this price, nice looking and performance is also good.
5|Worth buying, was trying to buy a HD, My luck i go the offer on the same day, without any hesitation i bought this.
3|product is nice, value for money, but i can't rejister for 200 gb cloud storage. can any one help me? '
4|The product is good, very slim, looks good. Liked it. But I expected the write speed to be a bit more better.
1|This one star is for delivary time.They just boast of one day delivary.I think they have the worst delivary system
5|It was extremely good and in good condition. Who ever required a 1TB take Samsung. I give the product a 5 stars :)
5|Quite handy and small in size. I bought it to serve as an extended memory for my son's Xbox. It's working great.
4|How to attach this hard disk with Samsung galaxy s4 please tell me and its backup plus software also not working
1|I have charged 50rs extra for 2 days delivery... But they delivered after 3 days... Overall unsatisfactory.
3|Not satisfied with the speed, I am getting a data transfer rate of 30mb/s, I.e. too less as I expected from it.
5|Really small and compact.. Also at a very low reasonable price.. And i got the item quickly .. Great job amazon
5|Good one nice worth to buy don't miss it buy particularly from amazon u will not get one more chance like this
5|Very Very Sleek Design , Good Speed and at very very reasonable Price too. i recommend my friends to buy this.
5|Very slim in size comparing to other 2TB external hard drive products. Good performance on USB 3.0 port.
5|Really slim and very light weighted. It is efficient and has very fast data transfer rate as it supports USB3
5|Really a product which deserves a 5 star rating.. Its so slim n small and is so handy n carry it in pockets..
5|After all it's a product from SEGATE...and the name says everything. Simply awesome...very slim and comapct.
1|Very poor performance of the piece which i got! Transfer speed of 15-20Mbps only!! Returned n replaced!
5|Best Buy as i got Best price for Seagate Backup plus slim 1TB portable External Hard Disk black thanks a lot
5|This product is good and I will recommend to every one. & amazon is also good in their service & products.
5|well i loved it :) , small,easy to fit in pocket and speed varies from 90 to 100mb per second with 3.0port
5|Initial impression was very good. Nice & slim looking, can be easily put into pocket. Fast data transfer.
5|Would recommend Seagate Back up plus as it is slim and handy hard drive.value for money. Its a good deal.
5|NO DOUBT ABOUT THE PRODUCT. IT IS AMAZING IN THIS PRICE. I RECOMMEND EVERY ONE TO PURCHASE THIS SLIM ONE.
5|Thanks for prompt delivery n awesome product must admit. Fully satisfied. Got best deal for the product.
3|After some time portable got aheat & only 1.81 Tb Small good look 30 Mb/s copying speed
1|Whenever i connect it to my laptop, my laptop hangs and it stops working. Don't know what the issue is.
1|i still not get the 10% cash back for usage of SBI debit card to buy this one (i paid 2 months before)
5|this sleek and trendy product is available for a wow price, looking for a hard disk go for it blindly!
5|Good thing about is seagate is High data transfer rate, at least than other brands. worth to buy it.
5|Fast and speedy upload and download data access happy to buy and suggest to by if you want Good one
5|As A Dj I Prefer This Hard disk Than Any Other Hard Disk . Because Of Its Size And Performance
5|This is good storage device. It is slim and fits in pocket and the data transfer speed is also good.
5|Exactly what I was looking for: compatible with Mac, sleekly, not too weighty, and on time delivery
1|purchased this product less than 2 weeks ago and it has already crashed. HORRIBLE CUSTOMER SERVICE!
5|its good product and amazon is also very good site . i like this site ....also advise all to use it
5|I was struggling to take a backup of my laptop. Segate data transfer was too speed and very handy .
5|Very good buy at a low cost. I had bought a similar one from Nehru Place earlier at Rs 2000 more!
4|good
5|Good
5|good
5|Good
4|Good
5|nice
5|Good
5|nice
5|Good
5|good
5|Nice
5|Good
3|Good
5|good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Nice
5|Good
3|Nice
4|Good
4|good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|Good
5|good
4|Good
5|Nice
5|Good
5|Best
4|Good
4|Good
5|nice
3|Good
4|good
5|Good
4|good
5|NICE
5|nice
5|Good
5|Nice
3|Nice
5|good
3|good
5|Nice
5|nice
4|good
5|good
4|good
4|good
5|good
5|Good
4|Good
5|good
5|Good
5|Good
4|good
5|Nice
5|good
4|good
5|Nice
5|Good
5|Nice
5|Nice
4|good
4|good
5|Good
1|good
4|good
4|Good
5|Good
5|Good
4|Good
5|good
4|Good
5|Nice
4|Nice
4|good
3|Good
5|Good
5|Nice
5|good
5|Good
4|good
3|good
5|Good
4|good
4|good
3|GOOD
5|good
4|Good
5|NICE
4|Nice
5|Good
5|good
5|Good
5|Good
5|Good
5|Nice
4|o.k.
4|Good
5|Good
4|Good
2|GOOD
4|GOOD
4|Good
5|Best
4|good
4|nice
4|good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Nice
2|Nice
4|Good
5|good
4|Good
4|Good
5|good
4|Good
5|Good
3|good
4|okay
5|Nice
5|xlnt
4|fine
4|fine
4|good
4|Good
5|Good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Good
3|nice
5|Nice
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
4|good
5|good
5|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|Good
4|good
5|Good
5|good
4|nice
4|good
4|good
5|awsm
4|Good
4|Good
5|Nice
5|Good
4|good
4|Good
5|Good
5|nice
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|GOOD
5|Good
5|good
4|Nice
5|nice
5|good
5|nice
5|Good
4|good
5|good
5|Nice
5|GOOD
5|Good
5|good
5|good
5|Nice
4|good
5|good
4|Best
4|Good
5|good
4|Good
5|Nice
4|good
4|good
5|Good
4|Good
5|Good
4|good
4|good
4|good
4|good
5|nice
4|Good
5|good
4|Fine
5|best
4|GOOD
5|good
5|good
5|nice
5|Good
5|nice
4|Good
4|good
4|good
4|Good
5|Good
4|Good
4|good
5|best
4|good
4|nice
4|Good
4|good
5|Nice
4|Good
3|good
5|good
4|good
5|Nice
5|good
4|nice
5|best
4|Good
4|good
5|GOOD
5|Good
5|good
4|Good
5|Good
4|good
5|good
4|good
4|Good
4|good
5|Good
5|nice
5|Good
5|Good
4|Good
5|GOOD
4|good
5|good
4|Good
5|Good
4|Nice
4|Good
4|Good
5|nice
5|best
4|good
5|Good
2|Good
5|good
5|nice
4|Good
4|Good
5|good
5|best
5|good
3|good
5|good
3|good
5|nice
4|Good
5|Good
5|Best
5|Nice
4|good
4|Good
5|good
5|good
5|Good
4|good
4|good
3|Good
5|good
5|good
4|Good
5|Good
4|Good
5|Nice
4|nice
5|Good
4|good
3|good
4|Good
4|Best
5|Good
4|Good
5|Good
5|nice
5|Good
5|good
5|good
5|Good
4|nice
5|Good
5|good
5|fine
4|Good
4|Nice
4|Good
4|Good
5|good
4|Good
3|good
3|Good
4|Good
5|good
5|nice
3|Good
5|fine
4|good
5|Good
5|good
4|Good
4|good
5|nice
4|good
5|Very slim, very compact... its fast and so far no issues. Thanks #AMAZON and #Seagate.
5|Excellent delivery, 100% working product, genuine.. Overall great experience with Amazon so far
1|These external hard disks of big size are useless... once something happens to them they popup a msg saying please format your hard disk,and all data will be gone.......... its better to have two hard disks of 1 tb size with useful information as backup in the other.
1|Crashed in 3 months of use. Had to break seal to retrieve data, spent 10k for retrieval cost.
5|Its is a nice one. It would have been great if it had other color options for the same price.
3|Good product. but not able to connect to my note 2 . Over otg it says blank disk.
5|superb in all ways: Packaging,delivery on time plus the accuracy in products chosen.
5|sleek and with very good data transfer speeds. use with USB 3.0 ports for best results.
1|Stopped working just 3 months later. Lost all my data. Not expected this from Seagate.
5|The best external storage available now. Fast, small, lightweight and classy looking !
5|Great performance and doesn't get heated and best of all the compact and sleek design
5|Gr8 portable hard drive. Smaller than my cell phone. i can easily carry in my pocket.
5|Completely satisfied with the product. As useful as per the need and requirement.
5|Beautifully packaged, delivered on time... Good product. Could not ask for more!!
1|No cover sent with it abd the space is only 930 gb instead of 1 tb as advertised
1|Specified memory is less than what it has quoted ... It's a fraud and cheating
5|very good product and quick delivery by amazon! easy to set up the hard disk.
1|Didnt had a good product buying experience.. very slow when given for copying
5|very nice.. I used to keep it in my pocket when taking to some other place..
1|Product is good but I want to write about price. I brought it for 4445.00.
5|Product is very light and arrived in good conditions. No problems so far.
5|This was my first experience on online shopping and I love it. Thank you.
5|Just mind-blowing! Colse your eyes and pick it up as your back-up drive.
4|Product is really small in size reading and writing seed is good enough.
5|nice product quality is good and received next day itself good delivary
5|Its pure value for money..m extremely satisfied wid the product quality
5|Wow
4|gud
5|grt
5|gr8
5|Gre
4|gud
5|gud
4|Gud
5|gud
3|ok.
5|gr8
5|Very slim nd thin, awesome product by seagate Just I loved it.
1|It worked for the first time and now it is not even detectable. :(
3|Earlier also puchased but was defective and not in use now is ok.
3|Product is Okay but not for use of Windows 10, hence returned it.
4|This is a good product . It was delivered within couple of daus .
5|It is working as expected. Good product and serviçe by Amazon.
4|good product .as per the pic and the description it is working.
5|its fast its amazing nd delivery is good overall i loved it....
5|Really great. Little, compact and light weight. Working great.
4|Good, as show to me, as I wanted, I m fully satisfied & happy.
5|Compared to other HD I feel it's good. Light weight and slim.
4|compact . but i cant able to connect with my friend's sytem
5|The product was delivered as promised and worked perfectly
5|Truly Slim & Portable as compared to earlier portable ones
1|It is verypoor service and it damaged after 10 days....Dont buy it...I request you amazon replace it.......Please contact me at 9051449393
5|Best storage drive you can get... Don't think just buy it
5|Good product. Met my needs. Excellent services by Amazon.
5|Excellent slim Hard disk nice I/O speed . Speed delivery.
4|quick delivery by seller and good product. no complaints
5|Portable and of good use. Good buy. Love the product :-)
4|delivered in good condition and working properly so far
3|Capacity and Performace is OK but not boostable drive.
1|Wasting of time with half information/ twisting words.
5|I am very happy with this product and amazon service.
5|Best deal on amazon with great quality of product.
5|Good product. No syncing possible in this though.
4|Delivered early, easy to install and get started.
5|Excellent item and superb delivery commitment...
1|Data cable not working. No resppnse on exchange
1|Not Liked. Returned. Abnormal Clicking sound.
5|the Best In Hard Drives. !! Always will be :)
5|A best hard drive for software professionals.
3|good product & simple install in windows os.
5|Reasonable prices slim with beautiful design
4|Good product and brand, copies much faster.
5|Worth Product and support from Amazon......
4|it is good. can be recommended.
1|Ok
4|ok
3|Ok
5|ok
4|4*
5|:)
4|:)
5|ok
5|?
5|Ok
5|:P
3|OK
3|Ok
4|ok
5|Very good product and very speed delivery
5|Ho very slim and less weigh. Really nice.
4|It's good but data transfer speed is slow
5|Pretty good working as well as the size.
5|Very good product and service by Amazon.
4|I like this product and also works well.
5|Very good product with reasonable price
4|Nice product so far and is fast as well
5|Just Loved it.. It's so compact n cool!
5|Good product..as expected from seagate
3|The item detail not describe properly.
3|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable Hard Drive Information Size Name: 1TB | Colour Name: Black Technical Details . USB Cable delivered is not 18 Inch as given in Product Details as given below & is not more than 12 Inch Brand Seagate Model STDR1000300 Model Name Backup Plus Portable Item Weight 141 g Product Dimensions 11.4 x 7.6 x 1.2 cm Item model number STDR1000300 Memory Storage Capacity 1 TB Hard Drive Size 1 TB Hardware Platform PC, Mac Included Components Seagate Backup Plus drive, Seagate Dashboard pre-loaded on drive, NTFS driver for Mac pre-loaded on drive, 18-inch USB 3.0 cable, Quick start guide Network Interface Description USB Sudhakar Singal
1|Guys .. I recently purchased this HDD. looks slim but its really slow. I got disappointed. It took me 3 hrs. to copy 85 GB of data. I don't recommend this to anyone.
5|awesome product !!! very satisfied...
4|good as mentioned in the description.
5|Slim easy to carry Good product
5|good product. buy it with confidence
3|WELL HOPEFULLY WORKING GREAT FOR NOW
5|Very slim and faster transfer rates.
5|Was a quick delivery without hastle
3|its a good choice and working fine
3|But not working since so many days
3|Its perfect from my expectation :)
5|Awesome. perfect size and handy :)
3|slim and good copy speed 55mb/sec
4|Performance is above expectation.
4|Excellent happy with the purchase
3|Its working fine and good quality
5|Excellent piece proud to own it.
4|USEFUL FOR THE JOB ITS MADE FOR.
4|Small and handy...! Just love it
4|Super sleek and stylish and fast
5|Excellant Product for the price
4|Good product. Worth to have it.
1|Very disapointed with delivery.
5|Excellent Product from Amazon.
5|awesome product in this range.
4|good . the item is quit useful
5|Amazing Buy andd fast delivery
5|Nice product.. Happy to use...
1|Awesome product, great service
5|very good piece of hard ware .
3|available cheaper outside too
4|Very Happy with This purchase
5|Great product at great price
5|seagate always good the best
5|Seagate has done a great job
1|Can I use in macbook air 13
5|Very satisfied with the HDD
5|Good, sleek and very useful
3|transfer speed upto 40Mbps.
4|Its working fine till now.
5|very slim and good product
1|This is a very very disappointing experience with Amazon. First time I feel like this is not the the Amazon I used to know. I got a free storage of only 931 GB, instead of 1 TB. I tried to find all existing free software files and other default files including hidden files, but they altogether reached only 232 MB space. So, almost 100 GB space is lost and it seems this is a second hand material, might be formatted after being used. I ask other users to be very careful.
5|Good product from Seagate
3|I have one more Seagate Backup Plus, bought around 2 years back. If I compare the performance on PC its almost same but on LED TV this new hard drive has very slow response in comparison to the older seagate backup plus. I was wondering how it can be possible but not sure the reason either the product is defective or configuration this drive is poor then earlier seagate backup plus. In terms of delivery - damn slow with no tracking update. Awful
5|Seagate always reliable.
4|very good light and fast
5|Perfect HDD, good speed.
3|Style is not impressive
3|Its ok and working well
5|nice origanal hard disk
5|Meeting my requirement.
5|Good product by amazone
5|Seagate always rocks...
5|excellent Hard drive...
4|Superb Harddisk drive .
3|Transfer speed is slow
5|good product low price
4|Useful sturdy product
3|backup speed is slow
1|Not working properly
3|slow transfer rate.
1|Very bad experience
1|3 to 4 months happy....and then starts struggle.......after 3 or 4 months..The light on external drive starts blinking. u know What does it mean?,,,the drive has failed and needs to be replaced ....finally ur data lost...recovery of data is expensive....there are lot of complaints on this issue....so friends....don't buy this product...
5|
3|a
4|4
4|good, working fine
5|Very Good Product.
3|It is good device
5|It's really good.
4|it was awesome...
5|JUST GO FOR IT!!!
5|Excellent product
4|very good product
5|It's good product
5|excellent product
1|not user friendly
3|it's good to use
5|Best product...!
5|awesome product.
5|Value for money.
3|Awesome product
3|ok.. its good..
4|Great product !
3|price high.....
4|So far so good
4|Working great.
2|not that great
5|Awesome speed
4|nice product.
5|Works Great !
5|Super quality
5|Sleek and compact drive. Model no. is STDR2000, 2 TB, USB 3.0. Has a tiny led indicator. The hard disk is originally from SAMSUNG. I took it out and swapped it with the 500 gb one in my PS4. Works like a gem.
3|Good product
4|Good product
5|good product
4|Its ultimate
5|Really good.
3|to expensive
5|impressed..
5|Very good.
3|kaam chalau
4|It is good
5|Good One..
4|Great one!
1|soooo late
5|EXCELLENT
5|Excellent
5|Satisfied
5|Excellent
5|very good
4|Nice work
5|Excellent
5|Very Good
4|Good deal
1|very bad. i spent that extra money on buying a seagate, only to find that, even to watch a movie, i first have to copy the movie to the laptop.
3|nice one
5|Nice one
4|Perfect!
4|good one
3|its amazing and wonderful hard disk. i like it colour, user friendly, service is taking too long time but good
5|Super..
1|The drive delivered to me seems to be a defective one. Amazon promised for a return. Let me see!
5|suberp
1|Fuddu
3|good
5|good
3|GOOD
5|Nice
5|Nice
5|NICE
5|Good
4|Nice
3|Good
3|Good
3|Good
4|good
4|Good
4|Good
5|Good
1|The product is defective, it picks up virus the moment it is used and destroys anyones files or damages the files whenever the product is connected with the laptop. Amazon return policy is quite pathetic. I used the product in office to do back up and since it had to be circulated within my team , it took sometime and in between I was in vacation. Now since it was not working properly I wanted to return but cant since 10 days have gone by. I will never ever do shopping on Amazon. I have alsways shopped at Flipkart and it has always been a wonderful experience.
3|It is good and warking properly tillday
3|It's very slim and portable.
3|ok
3|Slim and handy, good...
1|Not to my expectation
5|The best...
5|Best best best Good speed best thing is dat its size 4.5 × 3 inch only nd its very slim
5|good one
3|worth
3|good
1|good
3|Gud
3|OK
1|very poor
1|Normal it's ok
5|pros: 7 stars no silent & vibration. small & compact. :) cons: 3 stars may you couldn't catch if it is working till holding with your hand. :( the power of indication lamp is too low! and twinkling too slowly. also sometimes in low angle i can't see it. :(
5|Plugged it into my Xbox One to extend my storage, and the Xbone immediately knew what to do with it. I transferred all my games and apps to it in no time, which freed up my 500GB built-in drive and I've gone from 3% free space to something like 97% free space! This drive has twice the capacity for the same price as the green "XBOX" labeled drive...and I think the black color is better anyway - it matches the actual color of the XBOX ONE and everything else in the cabinet, and I assume it performs just as good...I can't say for sure since I haven't tried the green drive, but then I don't need to because this one leaves nothing to be desired...it takes care of all my needs at a great price!
5|good price, arrived as described and in the time as predicted... good seller...
5|The hard drive inside is ST4000LM016, featuring 2.5 inch, 15 mm, standard SATA port. The logical sector size is 512 bytes. This is important since the maximum LBA of this hard drive is 4 TB / 512 B, which is significantly greater than 2^32 - 1. If another 4 TB hard drive offers 4K logical sector size, then the maximum LBA will be 4 TB / 4096 B, which does not exceed 2^32 - 1. However, as of today, there is no consumer hard drive except Intel SSD 750 series, that offers 4K logical sector size. Xbox One internal hard drive mounting point does support standard 2.5 inch SATA hard drives up to 15 mm perfectly, but unfortunately current version of Xbox One UEFI does not support booting from partitions which LBA is greater than 2^32 - 1. Still, you can use it as a Xbox One internal hard drive but the maximum capacity supported is (2 ^ 32 - 1) * 512 bytes. This is just a little bit larger than 2TB drives. Therefore, it is pointless to replace Xbox One internal hard drive with this one, unless Microsoft updates UEFI to fix this 2^32 - 1 limit in future versions. Needless to say, using this as a Xbox One external hard drive, you can get the full capacity.
4|Seems to be good value. We'll see how reliable it is over time. Much smaller in size than I would have imagined. If you want to use it with a Mac, here is what I had to do. Diskutility didn't work. In Terminal: the command diskutil eraseDisk JHFS+ 4TB_Amazon disk4 resulted in Started erase on disk4 Unmounting disk Error: -69888: Couldn't unmount disk I then did this: sudo diskutil unmountDisk force /dev/disk4 Password: Forced unmount of all volumes on disk4 was successful MacBook-Pro-2:~ guido$ diskutil eraseDisk JHFS+ 4TB_Amazon disk4 Started erase on disk4 Unmounting disk Creating the partition map Waiting for the disks to reappear Formatting disk4s2 as Mac OS Extended (Journaled) with name 4TB_Amazon Initialized /dev/rdisk4s2 as a 4 TB case-insensitive HFS Plus volume with a 311296k journal Mounting disk Finished erase on disk4 That seemed to work
4|Works as promised. Fast shipment! Recommend!
5|looking forward to using this product to store photos, documents etc on it.
5|really nice
5|Great
5|Works very well!
5|Its dashboard installed the software without any problem and I backed up my files with ease. I also like the small size (makes it portable). And since I am not an IT expert I had some questions about backup management. My emails to Tech Support were answered within a day, and a follow up phone call I had with a live and a clear English speaking person provided the answers I needed. Keep it up Seagate!
1|First use, took extra long for my mac to recognize. Super slow transfer. Then failed immediately. Either can't be recognized completely or take very very very long to show up in finder and can't transfer anything. Can't wipe the drive out. Had to return.
5|Easy hookup on my windows laptop
1|I bought this to use for a Time Machine backup for my MacBook. I've been a fan of Seagate for years, but this is the last Seagate drive I will ever buy. I cant stay connected to the Mac long enough to complete a backup. While the TimeMachine is running and nothing else id happening, a message box pops open telling me that I did not eject the drive properly. I had partitioned the drive into two logical partitions, and half the time when I plug the disk into the Mac only one or the other will show up. Most times, Disk Utility tells me I need to run First Aid on one of the partitions - I suspect because the drive ejected itself while it was in use. This might be fine for a Windows box - I can't tell. But If you're thinking of using it with a Mac, I'd recommend anything else. Floppy disks, perhaps.
5|Good experience
5|The product was exactly as described. I used this hard drive to upgrade my PS4 hard drive to increase storage and it worked absolutely perfect for this. I had to look up how to remove the hard drive from the case but found a short video showing how. I've only been using the hard drive for a few days, so far, so good.
1|Not sure if I received a bad drive or what but each time I connect it to my laptop I have to disconnect and reconnect several times before it is readable. This has been ongoing since the very first time I used it. Now disconnecting and reconnecting it is not working; keep getting the error "drive is not accessible" The file or directory is corrupted or unreadable. This is very frustrating!! Now I'm at a lost without my files.
1|Stopped working in two months after a format. Could not return as per return policy.
4|The only reason I've brought this portable external hard drive is because my PS4 was running out of space and I constantly have to delete games in order to play some new ones. I have bought about 5 PS4 games (disc) and download most of the Playstation Plus free games. In fact, I downloaded all the Playstation Plus games and soon I have no space left. I went on to look for a way to get more space and found this external hard drive. After looking at Youtube on how to expand the PS4 storage, I discover that you can buy this external hard drive and take off the cover and find a hard drive that can replace the drive for the PS4 500 gb. So I decided to buy this portable external hard drive and open the hard drive up (which voids the warranty). When you use the hard drive to the computer, it would have a light that indicate that it's on. I switch the hard drive that is 500 gb to the cover of the 2tb drive. I screw on the 2tb drive to the ps4 and have to wait for the PS4 to reformat. Before switching the hard drive, I would highly recommend to back up the game save files online or onto a flash drive. After switching the hard drive, I would have to turn on the PS4 and do a clean install for the PS4. I have to put game disc in the PS4 in order to be able to play the games and update the games as well. I also downloaded the game save files to the PS4 onto the hard drive. After the update is finish for all games, I would be able to play the games and check my storage. It was 1.7 tb which is not bad. I also did something that no one shouldn't do. After removing the 2tb hard drive from the case that holds the 2tb drive, there is a tin foil around it. I ripped up the tin foil and threw it away. I should've put the tin foil to the 500gb to be able to use the 500 gb portable hard drive. I tried to connect the 500 gb portable hard drive to my laptop, but nothing happens. So I made a mistake there, but I'm not sure whether if you put the tin foil onto the 500 gb drive that it can work as another external hard drive. So I highly suggest that you should put the tin foil and not rip it. The tin foil should be attached to the 500 gb in order for the external hard drive to work, but I'm not sure since I haven't tried that yet. All in all, I was happy to upgrade my PS4 storage, but I can't really use the 500 gb external hard drive anymore becoming a brick instead.
5|It was a great deal.
1|Worked well long enough to get through the return period, then broke. Will not mount to computer, and when it finally does, will not transfer files. Waste of money. DO NOT BUY.
5|this eill be great when I find time toget it going
5|from the moment i open the pkg i fell in love. It is small and neat. it is just perfect.
5|This was recommended to me by a guy who works at an Apple repair shop. It was easy to set up and works great with my MacBook Pro
5|Excellent value and works as promised. It's small footprint is great. It has a short USB 3.0 cable which may present a problem for some people. A good quality 4' to 5' USB 3.0 Cable can be purchased for $5 (Amazon Basic and Mediabridge). My Acronis TIH Premium backups run much faster with this USB 3.0 drive.
4|It works good, just the set up for a MAC was a bit confusing, since I don't work with macs , it's was for my brother
5|Very dependable product. Works as it should...
4|The drive works ok: - partitioned the drive with disk utility on mac, formatted journaled OS volume, no problem - did a full Timemachine (TM) backup and encrypted, worked fine, took a whole day - made two other partions, one for data, one for another TM backup of another device - works ok when directly connected to the mac, does not work when used on the network Problems: -could be the disk, el capitan, or netgear router "readyshare" but when I connect the seagate drive to the router, my computers can not see the drive nor can TM. - got no help from apple, netgear, searched all over the web, evidently there's some missing driver to bridge the mac and the drive via netgear R2600 that's probably not the drive's problem. Worst thing about all this, the so-called free 200 gb cloud storage that comes when you register the drive is OneDrive by that s***ty company known as Microsoft. What a hassle, still does not work. DO NOT GIVE THEM YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION! MAKE A SEPARATE EMAIL, PHONY NAME AND NO PHONE NUMBER. Oh and MS as soon as you visit their site they record your browser fingerprint. Here's the info ms wants: OneDrive Preview needs your permission to: Sign in automatically Signing in with your Microsoft account will automatically sign you in to this app. View your profile info and contact list OneDrive Preview will be able to see your profile info, including your name, gender, display picture, contacts, and friends. Access your email addresses OneDrive Preview will be able to see the email addresses in your profile. View your OneDrive photos and documents OneDrive Preview will be able to see your photos and documents on OneDrive, but can't make changes to them. Add or remove bonus storage OneDrive Preview will be able to add bonus storage to your account. It will also be able to remove this storage (but no other storage), at any point in time. You can change these application permissions at any time in your account settings. Sorry, no can do. Going to just go get Veracrypt and encrypt my data onto the seagate and be done with it.
5|so cute and small compared to my old hard drive!
5|It was a gift for my daughter she loved it.
5|This drive is not only sleek and thin, but the metal finish makes it durable (which has not always been the case with Seagate drives in the past). I have had no problems with it, and it's been my favorite external drive because of the dependability, durability, and size. I would definitely buy this again!
5|Plenty of storage at a great price. Haven't had a single issue as of yet.
5|Works great!
1|It doesn't work on either of my computers. I figured it would at least work on my windows 8 touch-screen. I tried plugging it into an adapter, first. When that didn't work, I plugged it directly into the computer. Still doesn't recognize it. I am going to try to either replace it or get a refund.
5|Thank you! Exactly what i needed!
5|Used to replace drive in PS4. Worked like a charm.
5|I love this one, great quality, I've had problems with my other two self ejecting while in the middle of transfer, they are Toshiba and WD. Also I like the encryption ability and password protect on this one. Haven't had any problems with Seagate so far.
1|Useless. Does not perform as advertised. The copy says it supports PCs and all portable devices. WRONG! It cannot be mounted on a current Ubuntu system. Drive is not recognized, cannot be reformatted, and is a small lightweight brick. Given the numerous failure problems with this drive if it does work, this model needs to be avoided if you value your data and time at all.
5|I didn't buy this external drive for what it's intended for. I naught the 2tb model to upgrade my current PlayStation 4 drive. I was coming close to the 500gb limit so I just decided to buy this. I opened the aluminum housing of the actual drive the took out the 2tb hard drive. It was a very simple process which took me about 15-20 minutes. I tried to be really careful so I wouldn't bend of break anything on the case because I planned on repurposing it to store my ps4's 500gb drive. Upgrading the ps4s software and everything took just a couple minutes. My ps4 is working faster, smoother and overall great and I'm very pleased with how it turned out. I was able to use the ps4s 500gb drive on my brothers Xbox one and it worked just fine. All I had to do was format it and thanks to Microsoft the Xbox one was able to format the drive in less than 10 seconds. I had some worries doing all of this but I think it's all woth it in the long run.
4|Slim and fashion design. Just the USB to harddisk side is not standard mini usb. I am afraid it will break after some time.
5|Love this it's great have if you want it just extra memory for laptop,computer,or even a gaming systems ''''
5|Quick, sleek and quiet. The drive is fast and it looks great in the brushed finish. Very small, fairly lightweight and extremely quiet as well. Highly recommended.
5|Nice color and very silm
5|I bought this external hard drive to back up my laptop and PC. Really like the fact that there is nothing required on the user's part to partition the external drive to back up individual computers. Great price for the size, speed and capability, highly recommended for anyone needing an external hard drive.
5|Always on, never quits. This backup drive has provided excellent service and is a good buy.
4|I purchased this to use the hard drive in my PlayStation 4. It was an easy 10 minute job to remove it from the case and install it to the PS4. I purchased this just prior to Xmas 2015 and it is working as described.
5|Exactly what I was looking for to back up my Desktop.
5|I don't know what I would do without my hard drive. I collect so much on my computer already so to be curtain that I always have a back up of all my music, photos, film, papers, projects etc is beyond comforting. Incredibly convenient size, not heavy or bulky like most "portable" HD. Love it!
5|My boyfriend likes it:)
5|A real bargain for 40 dollars. Uploaded with lots of movies and using it in my media server without any problems. Nice product and excellent usb 3.0 transfer rate! Recommended it.
5|This device is extremely portable and stylish! The 2TB volume makes this an idyllic storage for my photography, time lapses and recordings! This hard drive is able to run without having another power source aside from the computer, which is extremely convenient; especially if you tend to edit videos in airports.
5|It's 1.8 tb then 200gb free cloud storage with one drive.
5|The HHD is everything I needed and wanted. Got to my location fast and received it at a really good price.
5|I use this as video storage for my laptop. Stream HD movies very well! Highly recommend as I can take my video collection with me wherever I go.
4|It's a little slower than my other Seagate slim 1TB Portable External. The faster one was already formatted for my Mac. I had to format this one for my Mac. It was formatted for Windows. If you are running Mac, I recommend that you get a drive already formatted for the Mac.
5|Have 4 now backing up all my media , might buy a few more, recommended
5|This is a great product, not bad to pay $80 for 2Tb external HDD. And the speed is awesome. I use an afternoon time to test this product, and I give the benchmark for this drive with crystalDiskMask test software.The read and write speed are about 130Mb per second. It means if you copy a 1.5Gb 720P HD movie, the time is only for 15 seconds. But this speed is based on lad, so actual speed is longer than lab speed. I try to copy an 1.5Gb HD 720P movie and it takes about 30 seconds. Not the speed in the lab, but still awesome. And it comes with free 2-year 200Gb OneDrive cloud storage. My advice is if you are looking for a HDD for photo or documents backup, please purchase this one. This is a best product for 2Tb HDD under $80.
5|Great
2|very disappointed from Seagate design team...plug in and plug out so bad...not plz dont waste ur money
1|Physically failed after less than 15 months. I would have lost 10 years of data if I didn't have redundant backups. Next time I'm buying a Western Digital.
5|fast post,i like this,it can storage more.
5|l love it thnx
5|Great small portable hard drive, had it for over a month now and I use it to backup with my MAC through Time Machine. So far I use it on a daily basis and the product has worked without any problem. I recommend it to anyone that is out there in the look for a compact drive.
5|This is a great portable hard drive that I'm using to back up all my photographs. Easy to use. I do wish there was a way to plug my phone right into it to move things over, but for the price, it's an excellent find.
5|Inexpensive for the capacity you get. The same size in solid state is big money - so this is a good compromise until SSD prices come down
5|great storage device. bought 2, one to back up my ps4 and another to upgrade the storage capacity of the same ps4. very pleased.
5|This is the second one I have purchased. I use it connected to a Channel Master DVR. Works great.
1|data transfer rate is about 4 times slower than Western Digital external hard drive even with usb 3.0 and you have to buy own password protect software for the drive. The only advantage over Western Digital for the 4 TB hard drive is that Seagate 4TB uses one usb cord while WD must use power cord and usb cable.
4|A *portable* hard drive isn't really something I thought I'd want instead of an *external* HDD (or obviously better, an external SSD!) but this one fit all my requirements so I took a chance with it - it is better than the external I was replacing with it. Being portable, it's very small (I was shocked at the size of the retail packaging when it arrived!) and it requires only a USB cable (no AC brick power supply) to power it. It comes with a USB 3 cable (compatible with USB 2.0 ports of course if your computer doesn't have 3.0). It vibrates a bit, yes, but it doesn't vibrate too much and it really isn't loud even while transferring files. That's far better than I expected from it and I've been using it quite a bit. It's as quick as any other 5400rpm. That's typical. 7200rpm is clearly an upgrade but I'm not unhappy with the 5400. I don't remember the exact sustained read and write speeds that I observed while testing it out but I do remember that I was surprised and pleased with them. You can use the Seagate Dashboard software for automatic back-up or any of the numerous third-party backup softwares but I reaaaally don't like those personally, so I'm not using it - I just do it manually, the ol'-fashioned way which is an option for sure. I bought this at listed price without discount for evaluation/review)
5|Love this!! It was even smaller than I expected. I back up my photography photos to it and dont have to worry about my computer getting bogged down with all of them. Plus it super easy to take with me in my laptop case!
5|Works great in PS4.
4|it works great.
4|It seems like it works just fine. It is my first external hard drive so I am very satisfied with the memory and it is compact so I can bring it everywhere.
5|Love it !!!!!!
2|Form factor is great and that's where it ended for me. Transfer speed and the kluged up mess they call SG Dashboard is very problematic. SG Dashboard is not very intuitive or informative. It caused me problems. Still have not figured out how to perform incremental backups-- if they are even possible with this package.
5|Works great for backups
1|This is a terrible product. It has so many nasty ads and only an expert (which I am) can get these ad off of you computer! Not worth the trouble. Then it changed or damaged my PC Password that I still am trying to fix! That fix took another hour! Remember this crap will happen to all PC's and dives that you use with this drive. I highly recommend that you do not let them get away with this crap
5|Great!
5|I bought this to use for use as a backup drive for my pictures, documents and videos. It has a low profile and is powered by the USB so it doesn't require an additional power supply. Setup was typical of these kinds of drives. I plugged it in and Windows saw it immediately. I've had it for a few weeks. It backs up my PC files everyday with no incidents.
2|I got this drive to do a full backup and throw in my safety deposit box (physical size was an issue). I have a good 3.5tb so this was the right size and price.. However man is this drive SLOW. To get my 3.5tb on the drive I had to do it in pieces over the course of a week because I was afraid of an error screwing up the entire move and having to start again. On avg I found moving 100gb would be around 1.5-2hrs. Which wow compared to my FireWire 800, this drive crawled.
5|all gd thx
5|I love this external drive. It does Its job well, it's quiet and compact!
5|It's great!
5|Nice
1|Nothing Seagate has works with Windows 10. Avoid them like the plague. Note the Dell is just a Seagate same issue. Seagate has no response; support only keeps office hours that's it. Try and find a phone number to call.
4|Very good product
1|I have 3 desktops with about 2 TB total of pocs and documents. I wanted to double backup juat in case. Worked so far so good....but will update after I transfer all data to new computer! Crossing fingers.
4|Easy set up. Works great so far. My son is a video editor and recommended this portable hard drive.
5|Bought this as a gift. Setup was easy and fast, also bought the warranty for it.
5|Good buy!
5|Yes. This is good one. Meets my expectations.
5|Used it as a replacement drive for a new Playstation 4 and was able to transfer the PS4 drive back into the case to use as a backup external hard drive. The unit has performed flawlessly so far, so I am very happy with it.
5|It seems to perform very well. i have had not issues. I partitioned it and operate with both at the same time. Nice and compact. The hardest part is finding it when I bury it under a bunch of papers.
5|Works great and super slim design rocks. No power required, this is a great improvement to my older Ext HD
5|This is great! I've already uploaded 8 years worth of photos and docs and I've barely made a dent
5|I had no problems. It was great.
4|Works well, but as usual, designed for a Windows platform world....we Mac users have to jump thru several extra steps to engage this otherwise fine external hard drive to interface with our systems. Advertised as cross platform friendly....not quite true. Tech support was fabulous, but I'll not be buying another Seagate, for all aforementioned comments.
4|Only complaint is that you need to use third party apps to put a password on it. western digital ones come with their own password tool.
4|Slim and good for travel. Setup was a bit more difficult than most HDs I've used with a Mac.
5|Works well
5|I like the product
5|Solid performance in my first year of ownership.
5|I bought two of these drives to back up two laptop computers. They are working reliably and the price for a 2Tb drive was excellent. This is cheap insurance agains a drive failure.
5|Works great!! I get about 1.7 TB from it! And on the playstation Web page, where you get the file to make the hard drive compatible, don't use the first link. Scroll all the way down and there will be a file that's bigger than the rest (mine was around 800 Mb at version 3.15) On a flash drive, make a folder called PS4 and then make a folder in that called UPDATE (all caps) and put the file in the UPDATE folder. Goodluck!! Oh and to get into the external hard drive case, just use your nails or a flat head screwdriver to gently pry the case open.
5|Love it,no problems,plenty of room for anything I want to archive.
4|So far so good. Really small for a 4TB, about the size of a 2TB external drive.
5|Perfect
5|fast read and write, compact, quiet. super awesome. I'm running it as library storage for all my movies and music, pretty much on 24/7. No issues.
5|Works as expected. I would buy it again. I used it to back up our computer.
5|love this item and bought 2 of them
5|It works on the PS4, just open it, retrieved the disc from the outside box and replace it for the one that the Ps4 has.
5|no complains
5|Good product
5|You will need to set up this external if you're not using it as a time-machine backup piece if you're using a macbook pro. I'm simply using this as extra storage and there's just so much damn space. So I'm happy with it. I also bought a warranty because I'm smart, and you should be too if you're spending more than $60 on an electronic device.
4|Great product, not used it long enough but as of right now, no issue. It'd be good if it came with an encryption software.
5|Excelente Seagate plus now I have more room for my work in my labtop
5|As small as my mobile phone. Like that it does not require a separate power source. Very convenient to use.
1|It is the worst .I waited two months for this stuff. But I could not get.
5|nice and easy to use
5|fast work with xb1
5|Great price and storage. I use it for my Xbox One. It connected easily, no problems.
4|Works well.
5|Awesome and portable!
5|Legit , good , works , will order from them as i use the a lot or have friends and family that uses them .
5|Bought for backup purposes and suits the purpose.
5|2 TB never thought I would see that. Small package, light and writes fast. Costs less than a carton of cigarettes! And no AC cord to plug in. I will be ordering a couple more, one for music and one for photos.
5|Excellent. No problems.
5|I love this back-up hard drive. I always have it with me.
5|Thin. Beautiful.
5|Another couple terabytes for my photo/video archival needs.
5|excellent
5|good
5|Great Product
5|We love it!
1|I bought two of the 2TB models to use as redundant backup drives. One died after 3 weeks. It will be replaced with a solid state drive.
3|You can't have your info on the cloud..!
5|I use it with my Roku 3. It works perfectly.
5|Works as USB memory. Remember to erase it before use it. Lack of instructions.
1|My PC uses Windows 10. I can't view the Seagate icon after many many attempts. The automated technical support materials do not address my concern. HELP PLS!!!
4|Great so far, worked out of the box for my macbook air, but also worked for my windows partition. incredibly small, fast transfer rate, and reasonably priced.
5|Really brilliant back-up drive. Small and powered entirely by the USB cord.
2|I purchased this to use to backup my 2013 Macbook Pro. I had to format the hard drive to make it compatible with my Macbook and spent hours backing up files that were on another external hard drive. The next time I plugged in the hard drive into my Macbook, none of the files had transferred and it was completely empty. I returned this and got the equivalent Western Digital and had no problems.
5|Used as external storage device for WII U gaming console. Works great!
5|Great product and easy to use.
5|Nice
5|Gooood
4|Not sure what to say it's in a play station 4 seems to work great
5|Very pleased with purchase.
5|Big power in a small beautiful package. This could easily be an Apple product (think Steve) -- except the cost is way too cheap for Apple. Apple would be smart to offer this back-up rather than their costly "Time Machine."
5|Although it is not solid state but it is very fast, light, and not overheat. Love it. One thing is if you have mac it requires driver installation which takes sometime.
5|good product
4|I prefer WD over Seagate, but this is still a good device. Price was right. No complaints.
4|Well, I like the size a lot. But the speed advertised is nothing like it was suggested. It will take a loooong time to get all my files transferred. But, otherwise, it's nice. And, I am sure I'll be happy once everything is in one place.
5|It does the job, very stable, great quality.
5|Great size both in the TB and physical size. I really dislike the desktop models so this one has been great!
4|As advertised, this is a 2TB external hard drive. Great for storing pictures, videos, and other 1s and 0s that may be filling up your hard drive.
5|great
5|No complaints. It's easy to use and connects to my Windows laptop with no problems. The design is sleek and it definitely seems durable in case it were to drop a few times. It's a great small size and is easily portable.
4|Good product
5|You can't go wrong with this. Very well made casing, feels great n the size is perfect.
5|good!
4|Great product! thanks!
5|Good
1|The drive is dead after two weeks of use. The drive is not spinning as if no power connected. I have tried it on several computers but no success. No dealer here in Lebanon will respect the sea gate international warranty and replace it.
4|Daughter loved it
5|this is a great product
5|I got two and use them for revolving backups. Have been using them for a month now. They are small, quite, and very fast. They are small enough for having them with you on the go. I ignored the software and just partitioned them for backups. Perfect.
5|small and hardly notice on my desk. Use it to back up my system on regular bases.
5|These work very well for system images for Windows 7 & 10. I learned that Windows would not use drives bigger than 2 TB for system images.
5|Excellent product and timely delivery
5|It worked perfect for what we needed it for.
1|Two of these in a row failed within five minutes of opening the box.
3|Nice
3|It's nice but sometime it doesn't connect to my Macbook Pro 15" October 2013 model! The connector is faulty at times as others have stated. Purchase at your own risk!
1|This external hard drive's USB cable broke my laptop by destroying a USB port. When I received this external hard drive, I unwrapped it and plugged it in to my computer, so I could start backing up my data. When I went to unplug the cable, it took part of my USB port with it. This was the very first use of the cable, which is why I believe that the cable was the cause of the problem. Seagate has initially refused to take responsibility for the damage their defective product did to my laptop. (They did offer to send me a new cable.) Update: A Seagate customer service supervisor eventually agreed to send me a free product of my choice (in lieu of paying for laptop repairs), though Seagate didn't take responsibility for the problem. Not an optimal resolution, but an okay one.
5|Fast. No need to go for the fater version. This is good enough.
5|Works great
5|Compact easy to install and compatible.
3|Can't seem to make it work for Apple computer.
5|Third one I bought Great
5|This item is easy to use, small and compact. Love it.
5|Used it to update my ps4 hard drive and it works perfect.
5|This 4TB backup storage is only about a quarter inch longer than my other two 2TB (WD Element). I use them basically to double backup and store large video files and only access them once a while. So far I have been using this unit to add new kids videos and other files once a week. So far it worked great. Checking with the two major brand of external hard drive, although some people may have some problem, but the percentage of problem between the two brands are almost identical. So I guess that no matter what brand you buy, their reliability will be about the same. Therefore it is the price that determine the buying decision. At this time, this unit is the best cost effective model so I bought it. Recently I have been using it to download some of the internet videos that I wanted, so it is on twenty-four hours a day for a week now hooking on to a PC with Window 8. So far so good, no overheat or any other problem. I would recommend people to buy it. Just hope you are not getting a bad one like few of the people doing the same review.
5|Was one of the best investments I've made all school year.
5|nice product
1|Not much to say because after I hooked it up it would not recognize my MacBook Air. I went to the Seagate website and wasn't able to get a fix. Odd, because I have two other Seagate external drives similar to this one -bought some time ago - that hooked up and immediately worked with no problems on a desktop Mac and a windows machine. If you are running a Mac I would stay away from this product.
5|It appears that this drive doesn't work with routers. If you plan to use it with your computer alone then you should be ok, but beware, if you plan to use it with Airport Extreme or other USB ports on a router then it will not work. Edit: I tried unplugging and trying again and now it works. Weird.
5|This is a great external drive. But I did crack the case open to see if they had a pair of 2.5 inch 2TB drives. They actually have a single 4TB 15mm height disk in there. it was kind of amazing they were able to fit all that data in there. So if you plan on using this for a pair of 2TB disk, dont bother. You will get a single 4TB disk. If you want 4TB external drive, then go for it.
5|I dropped this sucker and it still works!
5|looks like an external hard drive and works like a external hard drive. There really is not much to this product besides a light indicator which is really insignificant in function but it does add to the style and design.
5|Pulled the drive for my ps4, works great.
5|As advertised and fast shipping
5|Excellent performance and low cost.
1|I can't get it to work on my Mac even after trying every single set over and over for an hour. soooo frustrated!
5|A very good product at a good price. Ideal for back up as well as storing your music to go.
5|This drive stores a ton of data in a small, light package!
5|Shipped fast fantastic value and free cloud space. Fast transfer speeds!
5|Buy it during black friday
5|on time and good quality
5|Perfect
5|Easy setup and operation.
5|good
4|Great item at a hot price
4|Good product
5|Great product no problem
5|Worked great for a PS4 upgrade!
5|works good
1|DO NOT BUY THIS FOR PS4. I bought this product with the intention of harvesting two 2TB drives; one for PS4 and one for an enclosure. Reviews stated that it had two drives inside the 4TB model. Well, Seagate must have changed the design because its now a single 4TB, very large drive that will not fit into any standard enclosure (pretty sure it also was not SATA, but had USB directly on the drive) And of course I can't send it back because I opened it up to get the drive out. I'm not sure if this is Seagate's fault for changing models or Amazon's fault for grouping reviews for differing products, but I'm giving a 1 star because the product I have is not useful for the primary purpose it was purchased for.
5|I needed to google how to reformat for a MAC, but overall good product
5|Great product. The backup program works like a charm. I am using it for backup mostly.
5|Came in quicklY easy to use great product
5|Came quickly, as described. Love it, back for my iTunes.
5|No problems, great, smaller than expected or was thinking of, so a plus there
5|Item was shipped and received as described.
1|all I know is that Seagate rips people off. A perfectly kept drive breaks, one that I bought for a backup- and storage of important photos. They simply say, send us $600 and we'll try, but you most likely lost the data. I bought it to protect data, DAMN I HATE SEAGATE
5|I got it for my xbox one to get some extra storage. Very sleek and I like that it is portable. I've already installed about 15 games and still got 75% left of free storage. Recommend to anyone! I have had this for about 2 months and it's still fast. I'd recommend this to anyone.
5|Really great hard drive. You won't regret getting this. Hold a lot of files. I am a art and tech major and i use heavy GB files with my video files and my raw files and this has no problem keeping up. Very dependable.
5|Worked right out of the box. No problems or difficulties.
5|works in XP which is what I got it for.
5|Was easy to set up and worked just like it should. Nice size and plugged right up easily. Product just as expected.
5|works like it's supposed to
5|I bought this drive and a Sata Male to Female Data and Power Combo Extension Cable ( http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00L9R3AKA ) for use in my PS4. With firmware update 3.15 released by Sony, sleep mode now works with 4TB drives. I connect the extension cable to the hard drive connections inside the PS4, then run the cable out to this external hard drive enclosure. I cut a rectangle slot using a dremel so the cable plugs into the hard drive directly. You can't fit this drive in the PS4 hard drive cage due to it being too thick, however by running the extension cable you can get 8 times the storage capacity (upgrading from 500GB PS4) for about $125. No downsides now thanks to Sony's 3.15 update! Be sure to back up your game saves online or to a USB drive before you install the drive. Download the latest update file from the PlayStation website: https://www.playstation.com/en-us/support/system-updates/ps4/#newinstallation Put it on your flash drive in this structure: D:\PS4\UPDATE\PS4UPDATE.PUP (where D: is your flash drive's drive letter) Then plug the flash drive into PS4 with it powered off, plug your USB cord into your DualShock 4 controller. Power the system into safe mode by pressing and holding for 7+ seconds until you hear the second beep. Choose option 7, choose YES to reinitiliaze. It will copy the file off the flash drive onto the hard drive, reboot the PS4, then ask you to proceed with the installation.
5|This is so nice. I have it plugged to the back on my computer, and am using it as a back up for now.
5|It's very snappy, light too. Keep the protective plastic wrapper it comes in as it serves as a good shock absorber.
5|A very high quality and slim profile drive. Great for back up and storage.
2|Well would be 4 stars but of the two I ordered at the same time one has failed within 2 months of owning. I purchased two of these for use in Afghanistan to have movies and music with me when internet was not an option, one of them has been working like gang busters and I have had no issues with the other failed shortly after backing up some files to it. To be clear I put less then 500gb on a 2TB drive and after 3 days the drive wants to be initialized as though it was a new drive, this has happened twice with this drive. The first time I figured I accidentally did something that caused the issue, like not Safely Removing it. But I have been very careful to use the Safe Removal and today it did it again, 500GB of files gone. Luckily due to this drive's earlier failure I had everything on it backed up. Not sure why this only happening to ONE of the TWO identical drives I purachase at the same time. I will be buying a different drive from a some other manufacture after this.
5|Thanks
5|Great back up
5|Used it for my ps4. Took the disk out of the case and into the ps4. Use the case for another disc. Really glad that I did this.
5|love it. Size is very small.
5|I bought the 4tb model. I've got to say, I Love being able to replace my desktop 4tb. I usually only buy Western Digital, I've been true to them for years, but in this case, I went with what was portable and had a ton of storage. It's worked out great, so far. I've owned it for almost a month, using it as a backup for ALL of my media. I was using a portable 2tb and the 4tb desktop that I mentioned. It can handle everything you could throw at it, until you've filled it up, obviously. The transfer speeds have been pretty fast, for my experience, I'd say it has averaged around 100~150 Mbp/s.
5|Works exactly the way it's supposed to.
5|141 Mb read and write this little drive is fast.
4|Pulled the drive out of this to use when upgrading my PS4 which had run out of room. The drive so far has worked perfectly. It is slightly cheaper to buy it in this case than to buy the bare drive by itself. At least it was when I purchased. I think I got it for under $80.
5|Great design, compact, good job
5|Excellent as backup drive!
5|Simple and easy to use... just plug it in.... Good price and lots of portable memory.... Have used Seagate Backup products in the past, and never had any problems... durable and they last....
5|Like any other External Hard-drive. Great product.
5|compact, excellent value
5|Wife needed a larger portable hard drive she manages Genealogy website with many many pictures, so she needed to have a larger HD capacity. she is happy with this hard drive.
5|Excellent
3|Well it is not plug and play for mac. Would not let me set up partition as logging. I had to format the drive. My view not good product for Mac. But I'm using it. But I'm not very confident. ok well
5|Just what I needed, works great.
5|Got and yesterday backed up my laptop.Its alost as small as a phone and it comes with a small cord but well worth the money.The reason I mention the cord because I worried about it not having one .They may want to mention it comes with the cord or I just missed it,Very good buy .I am a happy Camper:)
1|very difficult to work with.
5|I am in the process of transferring all my photo onto this. I had 2 smaller portable external hard drives that were totally full. This is holding a lot more files. Love its capacity.
5|I bought it for my son's Xbox 1 for extra storage. He loves it.
5|Best Hard drive, I have purchased!!!
5|This drive works well and has been reliable.
5|very good product
5|Durable, easy to use drive. I have had 5 of these drives over the past couple years and they do not disappoint! I trust them to use with my photography business, and wouldn't look to another brand!
5|So far so good.
3|Not exactly plug and play on a MAC and probably not on Windows either. It comes with no printed instructions. when you plug it in it comes up aas a device with 3 files but you can't create folders or drag files to it until you click on the first file which loads something which you click on and that takes you to the Internet where you have to register and then it down loads something else to install and after that some other applications. If you down load them all and then restart your mac ( which it forces you to do) , it fails. I finally just loaded the first application and skipped the rest and now I can copy files and folders over to it. I did not bother with the cloud back up as that is only 1/10th the capacity of the drive and I only ordered this as I don't really like putting important files on the cloud. Since my insurance company, banks, online retail stores all have had security breaches, I figure it is more secure off the net. For the price it is okay I guess.
4|Works great
5|I am very pleased with this product. I configured this external drive for a Mac computer only and it works fast. It does not work on my Windows computer because I did not configure it to work on both Operating Systems. I could not get the speed I like from any of my external drives configured to work on both Mac and Windows computers.
5|Small, effective, and a great way to maintain file safety. Seagate makes a great product.
5|So far so good.
5|Excellent, slick, durable, colourful at great price
4|Brilliant, other than 1 of my TVs doesn't read it properly but otherwise great!
5|very good!!
5|cool
5|First and foremost, I own both a 2015 ZaReason Zeto and Sager NP8657 [Clevo P650-RE3] high end gaming desktop and laptop running Ubuntu 64 bit LTS GNU/Linux so my review will be jaundiced as per my limited experiences with this product. I use this product for bulk data storage and playback of my private media library. The overwhelming majority of my data consists of music albums primarily high resolution lossless PCM and DSD tracks. A significant portion of my other data consists of digital magazines and electronic books. My specific usage case scenario and intended application is to copy and paste tons of random data of various file names and sizes between my desktop and laptop. I also pay for CrashPlan+ Family Plan to backup my private user data to CrashPlan Central off-site from my apartment. In this regard, this product appealed to me for its ultra high capacity more so than its performance or the current offering of up to 200 GB of Microsoft OneDrive storage for a limited period of time (I have not taken advantage of this offer yet because I pay for Microsoft Office 365 Home and I receive up to 1 TB with my paid subscription). Where things get more interesting is my other more narrow usage case scenarios for specific applications. I purchased VMWare Workstation 12 Pro 64 bit for GNU/Linux and I also paid for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Microsoft Windows 10 Pro, and Apple Macintosh OS X 10.11 El Capitan 64 bit. Installing these guest virtual machines and running them on my Seagate Backup Plus FAST are incredible because they are so freakishly fast. I own a Western Digital Black 3.5" SATA-III 6 GB/s 6.0 TB 7,200 RPM 128 MB cache desktop hard disk drive and I swear that my Seagate Backup Plus FAST is as fast as my WD Black desktop hard disk drive albeit at a lower capacity and price than I paid for it. Another example would be my large SteamOS + GNU/Linux PC game library. I downloaded, installed, and play various PC games off of my Seagate Backup Plus FAST and it is nearly as fast as my WD Black or my Crucial M550 2.5" 7.00 mm SATA-III 6 GB/s 1 TB solid state disk. Of course, game loading performance does not dramatically improve by upgrading to a high capacity SATA-III 6 GB/s SSD over a standard mechanical hard disk drive in my experience. However, this Seagate Backup Plus FAST loads the most popular AAA SteamOS + GNU/Linux PC games extremely fast nevertheless while providing a few terabytes of available disk space left over for more data. The key selling point is your own usage case scenario and specific workload or intended applications for this Seagate Backup Plus FAST product. For me, I chose the ultra high 4.0 TB capacity over performance and it meets my needs adequately. I would not rely on this product as it is configured in RAID-0 with no data protection features as a backup drive. It can be used as an ultra high capacity, high performance, and portable scratch disk for IT professionals and creative professionals alike while traveling worldwide. This would be a good usage case scenario for such folks considering this product to add to their tech carry on bags. If you are considering this product, then I do strongly recommend that you consider exactly how you would use it for. The performance is there and it is the highest capacity portable hard disk drive currently on the market at the time of this writing. This is the best portable hard disk drive I have owned yet.
4|Good value. Doesn't require a separate power supply which is convenient.
5|I added it to my Xbox One for more storage. I haven't had it on long, but it's been flawless so far.
5|Compact size and great memory capacity. Also really like the color.
5|This drive does exactly what it promised. It's small, cute, and fast. I didn't use the backup software installed on the drive, and the drive worked fine with other backup software. Just plug and go. No geeky skills necessary.
5|Quick and easy.
4|As advertised
5|Great item. Made for a great Christmas Gift after I added music and photos. Great for backups.
5|Quick loading, holds quite a few x-box one games!
5|Works Perfectly
5|This drive is super slim, super fast, sleek looking, and extremely QUIET!!! I love it, it's the best external drive I have owned so far. We will see how long it lasts. I have been using another seagate drive for over 5 years and it has never failed and still works until today. I carry it all over the world in a backpack which goes through airport security (rough handling) and I am shocked that it hasn't broken yet! I bought 2 of these drives for Mac backup via time machine. The only issue I have is that I couldn't split the partitions on the Mac after formatting the drive for Mac file system. But I doubt that has anything to do with the drive.
5|This external hard drive is exactly what I was looking for. It's super slim and small, which makes it very portable. It only needs to be plugged into a usb 2.0 slot with a cable to power it on, no other wires are needed. I used it to hold files on my computer which were transferred fast through a usb 2.0 wire. Now I currently use it as an external hard drive for my Xbox one and it does a great job: it adds 2tb of extra space to the Xbox one, it loads games off of it in less than 10 seconds, and it formatted for the Xbox one easily in less than 2 minutes.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Drive has been a great travel companion and does transfers really fast. I highly recommencement it for anyone that needs to lightweight portable backup drive.
5|Sturdy and Durable as well as compact are what makes this product quality. A great amount of storage for the price.
5|better than Western Digital products
5|Easy to use, PC or MAC. Lots of storage.
5|Great Product, Highly Recommend.
3|the cloud is not life time
5|Amazing
5|Second one I've bought! Love all aspects of this product: speed, quietness, design, portability, price etc etc!
5|Works exelent!!!
5|Works great. Easy install with my D-Link 202l
5|Love it!
5|Good product, fast shipping!
5|Good as expected
5|Yes, this backup unit came right away and I found it to work very well.
5|Good price/quality ratio
5|Great backup tool for your PC or laptop. Easy to use, very portable.
1|I'm old enough to remember when Seagate was a true innovator and built some of the best hard drives in the world. I guess those days are gone. My Seagate Backup Plus lasted about 2 weeks before it tanked. It spent its 2 weeks of its short life sitting on my desk. Never dropped. Never abused.
5|Love it!, works good with my Xbox One
5|Very small and works perfectly
5|Great product
5|So far so good. Holds all my extra files. It is indeed very slim and portable.
5|SO FAR SO GOOD. SMALL , THIN, LIGHT, AND RELIABLE.
5|Works Great
5|Completely happy with this hdd!
5|works great in my ps4.
5|You can never go wrong with Seagate products. We used this one for all our music. Works great.
1|I guess I got to far eon technology, while I was goofing on it went way past me. I bought this thing and can not get it to work and there is NO support anywhere. So I just have another paperweight.
4|This is excellent, no complaint.
5|Durable, works even when shipped. Well protected for shipping
5|Purchased for someone else. They love it.
4|As expected
5|Came quickly and works great - loved the price too!! Box was a little beat up when I got it, so I was nervous but it works perfect nothing wrong with the unit at all!
5|So far, so good. Looks sharp. Seems to work so far. Works on my Macbook to back up.
5|Easy to install and configure for my automated backup. Love it.
5|great price!!!
5|The drive works perfectly on my mac, I didn't really had to do any special formatting (and if I did, it was so easy I don't even remember it). Drive works fast and it looks very professional. I am really satisfied with my purchase.
5|Nice size, easy to use for photo back-ups.
5|I can't say enough good things about this product. I now have several, and they are just the best in every way.
5|Excellent, thin drive for taking files with me when I travel. I own 3.
5|Wonderful external hard drive. Small, portable, and premium feel. Transfer speeds are great!
5|Item is perfect for my expectations. Quick delivery.
5|Better than expected.
5|Compact, easy to use and holds a lot.
5|Works great, very small so takes up a minimum of space. Small cord, though.
5|Too light, the capacity may be large
5|Just what I needed to use with new DVR for recording tv shows. Could not believe something this small would do the job.
5|Very easy to use and slim enough to carry in your shirt pocket. Well worth the price.
5|Good compact design and works great - no complains!
5|Timely order, very reliable.
5|small, fast, easy to use.
5|Started off with a 1TB Seagate. Filled it up, so got a 2TB model.
5|Very fast, very small. Stays cool. Setup took no time. Exactly what I and hoped for.
5|Great, super slim and fast, I use it in my xbox one and it was recognized right away.
5|Very fast, compact and plus benefits
5|Great item, just is time for my new project and will definitely come in very handy, yes I definitely recommend this item to my friends and family.
5|THIS THING IS SERIOUSLY MY LIFE SOURCE. I'm kind of a nomad photographer type so this thing holds all of my pictures. And, even though I'm on the road, I'm still a total movie junkie. So this thing is holding my entire movie collection (must be pushing over 200 by now), albums upon albums of my photography in so many different places, like the entire Simpsons Series, and it's not even halfway full yet. I used to have a WD passport and that thing sucked and I was super hesitant making this purchase but it was the best decision of my life. It's super easy to use, flip flopping from PC to Mac is no big deal, it's got massive storage, and it's small and thin so it just slips into my laptop bag. I'm definitely not using the free Lyve import to it's full potential, but that's pretty cool too. Anyway, if you're in the market for an external hard drive, this is your buy.
5|Perfect swap for my PS4
3|Remarkably small and light weight disk drive with great capacity for my work in science and photography. I always have two attached to my computer which has a 500 GB solid state drive. Be careful! My first one of these failed beyond redemption after 1.5 years without any precursor symptoms. That is why I bought this drive which is my third. My backup strategy is to back the computer to these two hard drives every two weeks. Then about every two months I back both to a 4 TB desktop drive used only when I backup and I store in a fireproof save. I also back up static folders to my older 300 & 500 GB disk drives. I have multiple copies of important folders and constantly update to new technology and computer interfaces. It remains to be seen how safe the new solid state drives will be.
5|Great item. Flawless.
5|works perfect
5|like it
5|Great item, really great price, & easy to use. Recommended.
5|Still working these few months. I use it as a NAS on my TP Link router.
5|Works great. ?
5|good?
5|amazing drive i took it apart and used it inside my ps4
5|Compact casing, excellent performance. I don't think many people need such a large backup volume for their files, but for those who do - I wholeheartedly recommend this.
5|Perfect
5|Very happy with this product. It is a lot smaller than I expected but lived up to my expectations. Easy to use.
5|This is a very good drive. It is well made, durable and fast. No problem
5|No trouble yet after 2 years.
5|Excellent product. Easy to use! Works like a charm.
5|good
5|Served its purpose
5|Great hard drive. Though it is hard to go wrong with an external hard drive, this one still is simply amazing. The slim design and glossy sides combine to create a beautiful product that is worth every penny. With intent to open the case and use the naked hard drive for a friend's PlayStation 4, this product was much easier to open than another hard drive I had bought for myself in the past. Not much else to say, as there are really no cons and it does not differ much from other external hard drives. Great product.
4|Got in touch with a seagate reppresentive, they were helpful to get product working. Amazon was helpful on the possible return. Made the whole adventure non- stressful. When a product does not work properly out of the box, well... we all know how that feels.
5|Great product and the price is right!
5|Very good!
5|This does exactly what I need. It has lasted a lot longer than the Passports and other hard drives that I've utilized. I've taken this with me on various consulting trips when I need a large space to store documents and files. It has held up well against the heat of West Africa to the colder climes of Eastern Europe. This is still hard drive though, it's not the kind of object you should be tossing around in your bag, but I've found that it works quite well with the kind of work I do. My Macbook picks it up quickly and within seconds of being plugged. I will more than likely, be repurchasing unless something else out there convinces me otherwise.
5|Best storage device purchase I have made in years. Very fast, runs cool, and works seamlessly with Win 10.
5|Great shipping; delivered as expected. Reformatted for use with Linux; works great.
4|Bought this thinking it could help my storage capacity for my PS4. Apparently the 2TB model is the one I should've bought. But now I'll just use this for my phone.
1|Mac users beware, this drive is set-up for Windows computers. A machination of requirements are needed to allow the Mac's to write to the Seagate. The Seagate website has instructions to set-up for a Mac, however the instructions do not step you through the process to make the Seagate work on your Mac. For me, the Seagate support website was useless. However, following Apple support guidance, I attempted to reformat the drive to accept the Mac language. This did not work either and I could not mount the Mac format. Since I repeated the steps to allow Mac usage, I don't believe it was user error; perhaps the Seagate drive is defective, who knows. I do know my first attempt with a Seagate drive will be the last, I will go back to the Mac based backup drives. I really wanted this Seagate drive to work, it is small, purportedly fast and inexpensive.
4|ok
5|Works great with my Mac.
5|great product
5|So far, so good. My much larger (not more storage, just bulky case), older Seagate finally bit the dust. It looks like the backups that can be scheduled (daily, weekly, etc.) pick up changed files. So, I think every once in awhile I will need to do a complete manual backup (like the one done upon setup). I'd prefer if I could set this for a complete backup, say weekly. But only because it would be one less thing to remember. If it does this, I don't see it. Anyway, Seagate has been reliable for me, so I'm giving it five stars and a vote of confidence. (To attempt to clarify -- If I ever need to restore, I don't want to pick and choose through a lot of partial backups, and that's what it looks like I would have to do. That's why I want complete backups at intervals.)
5|Perfect size. Good price
5|Great color, great quality! Ships quick!
5|Very small and compact. Perfect little storage drive. Very impressive.
5|I love the Seagate external drives this is small compact and give each me the storage I need.
5|When I ordered this Seagate Backup Drive I had no idea it was so small. I absolutely love it. It's 1/4 the size of my previous backup drive and holds double the GB. It weighs hardly nothing, and fits perfectly in my purse. Backing up and uploading my photos and documents was a cinch.
5|I waited to review this to use it and see how reliable and durable it would be. I love it. It goes with me in my attache.
1|I started using the item on November 9, 2015. It stopped working on January 17, 2016, on my Mac Book Air
5|Everyone should have one of these as an emergency back-up for their computer! Excellent product!
5|This thing is amazing holds so much data
3|I was really uncertain about buying another seagate. I previously had a 1.5 tb seagate that I only used roughly 20 times in a 3 year period. Then it quit working. I decided to give this model a try due to the vast reviews. So far it is working well. The connection and transfer speed are ok. It does not seem to get extremely hot when I use it for extended periods of time.
1|This hard drive did not work just after 2 months. I had important data that I save.
1|Junk. I backed up my family photos when I received this. Recently went to add more photos and now I'm unable to access my files. Used one time.
5|Works like a dream! Backed up my entire computer and I split the drive in half and use the other side for daily file changes.
5|Great speed of delivery! Great product
5|Has worked great in my PS4. It was a fairly easy install and the inner drive was a Samsung drive. I have been using the case with the PS4s original 500gb drive.
1|Dosent' work, can't return! Bought for my daughter to back up her college assignments, she couldn't get it to work so brought it to me at Christmas to see if I could figure it out. After trying it on several different Macs (laptop & desktop) I've decided the software is faulty, it's just frozen & sadly it's too late to return! Can't even download a software update :(
5|So thin and light! Wow!
5|Small and easy to use!
5|good one
5|I really like this drive for its speed and dependability. To be honest, I took the drive out of its case and put it into my Alienware 17 computer and it works without any issue at all. It added a lot of drive space and it is fast. I use it to store primarily my ITunes library of videos and music and it works flawlessly. For the price, it is a great deal.
5|Love it!
1|Broke within a few months.
5|So far it is quick, quiet, and efficient. Plus compact.
5|Seems to work just fine
5|Great and sooooo small. Can't believe it's so small yet holds so much.
5|love ir
1|Not usable after 6 weeks....filed stopped showing up and it started freezing and crashing my computer. Good thing this wasn't my main backup. Returned promptly.
3|Exelent
5|Excellent !
5|My Xbox One can now have more games. This solved my issue with sub par storage on the Xbox One.
5|working great after reformatting for mac
5|Good
5|This works pretty good.
5|This is a great drive that gives good performance. I have a ton of movies stored on it that allows me to move from one place to another with little hassle.
5|FAB
5|My son does tons of video editing on a mac book air and loads everything on here, it works great. Shipped quick and less expensive that local stores.
3|I have continued to buy the Seagate line of digital products. I am not sure if it is because they are good or I am just a cost conscious customer. This product works but I have had my fair share of connectivity and storage issues. Mostly, the factory software is bloatware and I am not a fan of manufacturer pressured add-ons. For the long term I don't know. For the last few years, I would say that I have been mostly happy for the products usability.
5|Finally my computer will recognize an external hard drive again! I used it to backup all my files before upgrading to Windows 10. Everything fit and it was simple to transfer files using Windows explorer. I haven't used the software it comes with to backup files since I want to manage it manually.
5|I used this mainly because i needed to switch hard drives in my ps4. It works perfectly and i can still use the external hard drive with my old ps4 hard drive. I recommend this to anyone who wants to find a cheaper way to replace hard drives
5|Great
5|No frills. Does exactly what I want at a very good price. Solid and quality.
5|Great for the price
5|I'm gonna be the be all end all and answer the question once and for all that I know most of you are looking for the answer to. Can I break this open and use it as a hard drive in a laptop or PS4 or PS3. Yes, yes and yes, and this is probably the only one, the WD now don't have the sata plug and play connection. Now the only thing you need to know, from here, it's a pain to pop open cause it's glued, so be careful, and if you're using it for a hard drive in either a PS or a Laptop (it's a 2.5" HD) which is the same size in the PS3's and 4's, you have to backup everything, (use youtube to refer to) and for a laptop, you'll have to format it through the bios menu, so whatever it is for you F9 or 10, when it first turns on, tab down to format.
5|easy to use on my macbook pro. setup took no time. definitely needed it since my macbook has 3tb of storage in it.
5|This drive is exceedingly easy to use in a laptop or PS4. Use a guitar pick to separate the metal top of the drive, pop out the hard drive by twisting the plastic case end opposite the USB connector til one edge of the hard drive is accessible and it will pop out, then remove the tape and pop off the USB-SATA bridge. Get one now while the stock still consists of drives with adapters. The adapter isn't coded to the hard drive, so you can use any drive in the case after you poach the 2TB one. The USB 3.0 interface is nice, works with one wire and provides a handsome case to any backup drive you need. It's toolless and screwless, there are clips that latch in to the screw holes on any 7mm or 9mm 2.5in regular hard drive or full body SSD.
5|Writing and reading speed is decent. Does a great job as a back up hard drive
5|I've used this item to backup my Macbook. Using TimeCapsule has no issue just works perfectly.
1|Here's teh message I get when I click on the Seagate Icon: "You can’t open the application “Set_Up.exe” because Microsoft Windows applications are not supported on OS X." Perhaps they should mention this when saying that it can be used with Apple products!@!!!! This is not a plug and play for MacBook users! The customer support website is beyond frustrating as there is almost nothing on it and you have to enter the serial number in over and over which is the tiniest of font. I wanted to back-up my iphone with a simple drive but I have spent waaaaayy too much time on this already.
4|Great product; It works as intended and 2TB of storage for $80 bucks is fantastic. I recommend this product.
5|Best investment I've ever made. Great storage fast, sturdy, reliable. Small, fits anywhere. Easy to carry around. Plenty of space to backup an entire computer. Definitely recommend.
5|This is one of the best packaged items I have seen in a long time. The box comes apart without the hassle with the stiff plastic cover. It comes with software to store up to 200 GB in the cloud for 2 years. I guess after 2 years it will cost. I will probably not use the cloud storage. This drive is for my system backups, and I want the info in a drive that is in my possession. The drive works flawlessly on either USB 2.0 or 3.0. The one cable works on either. It is an excellent buy at $60.00.
5|product was as expected very compact and works great, very easy to install and in working properly
5|Works great. Used it to upgrade my PS4.
5|it's seagate best portable drive
1|I can not back up with this product. It might not works with window 8/10. If any assistance please help. Otherwise will return.
5|Love it. Perfect size. Not bulky, small. It came with 2 yr Windows drive storage. I bought 2 but was only able to use that on one.
5|just what i need
5|I trust Seagate because their products work and they're affordable. No fuss with this thing. Just plug it in and use it.
5|The product arrived as expected on time. Excellent product. Thank you.
5|Great product, I love it
5|Excellent product. And would highly recomment it.
5|Everything you expect an external hard drive to be it is. Good looking, fits into bag with ease, love it.
5|You have to love the slim and compact size of this external drive. No power cord needed as it connects directly to your computer via the usb. Love it
5|Great product. I had the toshiba before and I like this better. The small size fits perfectly on my desk.
5|Works well with my gadgets. You can also get rubber protection for it. Highly recommend the protection.
2|On my second one now. The first failed but was covered by Seagate's warranty. I was using it as a backup, and it failed exactly at the worst possible time. The replacement drive is just as touchy as the first. This drive is the most temperamental I've ever used. It seems to have issues with dismounting cleanly. When ejecting the drive via Window's USB utility, the drive often locks up. It takes a reboot and usually a chkdsk scan to get it back., sometimes tossing a BSOD in for good measure. This happens with every Windows computer I've tried it in; I haven't tested it in Mac or Linux operating systems. I use this now only for transferring non critical files between computers. Works great until it doesn't. Good: It's got a ton of space, USB 3.0 quickness, is cheap, and doesn't need a separate power source, and has a long warranty. Bad: Unreliable and Seagate's warranty process is Byzantine.
4|This is a wolf in sheep clothing... this is a Samsung ST2000LM003 - 2000GB Drive, Made in China this is the older Samsung 2 Terabyte drive, they have a newer version of this drive that you can also buy here. There is a Seagate version of this size of drive has a different exterior shell The drive is still a great drive with large capacity and the cover is just a thin aluminum shell that is stuck on with a 3.0 USB interface it works well and I do recommend this purchase
4|I ordered this as a Christmas gift for my grandson and it arrived promptly and was just what he wanted. Great product and great service.
3|the edge is very sharp,hurt my hand
5|Using this drive for a PlayStation 4 Remove drive from the case by gently prying it open, you then remove the USB adapter from the back of drive and then replace the original PlayStation drive with this one. Make sure you download the correct Sony update which is around 800MB - put the update on a USB thumb drive and save in a folder named PS4 - then a folder named UPDATE - safe boot your PS4 and use option 7 and install the update. This drive works awesome with the PS4. Take you old PS4 drive and put it in the case and use it for whatever you'd like - let me know if you need help Doing this update
5|great
5|Super reliable and doesn't overheat. Love this little powerhouse.
5|Seems to work just fine...
5|The best external hard drive I have purchased and set up with ease. No hassle!!!
5|I love this thing. Goes with me everywhere. I am using it as a companion to my Mac Book Pro. You must reformat it to use it with Time Machine. I split the disk into two separate volumes and works just great. Is fast, impossible to hear and even looks good. Don't think about it. Just buy one.
4|I got this because of the awesome price, and Im very happy with that factor. Ive taken a star off for 2 reasons: 1. It is really ugly compared to my other Seagate and Western Digital ones I have bought in the past. 2. Its twice the size of a 2TB hard disk. I wasn't expecting this. It is like they have placed 2 x 2TB hard disks on top of each other inside the case.
4|Wow! That was fast! $60 worth of fun! I'm an 80 year old grandmother...and I will never ask one of my 15 grand kids for help on the computer...they are far from eloquent. and I am a do it yourself-er. Backed up everything from my MacMini...in mere minutes...Quick, simple, who cares what mph it travelled at? I am very happy. One problem - my photos look very faded on the screen- as opposed to minutes ago ( pre BackUp) when they were primarily colorful. Do I have to keep this tiny little black box plugged it always?
5|Hooked into my network as backup. Works great!
1|Seagate has decided that I do not own this device and therefore cannot have write access unless I install their malware. Guess what? I'm not gonna install it. This is apparently where hardware manufacturers are at.
5|This is awesome,able to save family,videos,pictures and music plus important documents..great product..
4|Works just like an oversized flash drive. Plugged into USB and copy and pasted files. No unnecessary software interference.
1|Used it once and the driver was bad!!
5|This drive is perfect for your PS4 HDD upgrade.
5|Love it.
5|Great price on a lot of storage.
5|Fast service really really portable product
4|Well priced for a tb external. Serves me well for storing school projects.
5|good!
5|I got this on sale for $70. It's great - writes super fast (14 GB in 2 minutes? Was copying pictures or movies). Reads fast, looks good. Has a small light to show you if it is receiving power. Not sure what else to say. I've had nothing wrong, and this works amazingly.
3|Mine was DOA :(
5|My first package came damaged, but I decided to just opt for a replacement rather than a refund. I am quite pleased with the outcome of my decision. The form factor is nice, there's a decent selection of colors, and the storage per dollar is fine. I use this to store game files and back up my system, so it is convenient for me to just unplug the drive in a second and crack down on my studies to avoid the temptation of video games. I wouldn't mind recommending this to any of my friends.
5|Excellent backup, I liked it so much a bought a second one for myself and one for my wife too!
3|With Windows 10, the device seems to have issues maintaining communication with the computer. It's unpowered, and that may be part of the problem. When copying large datasets, the copy process will inadvertently pause... and sometimes timeout. Constant vigilance is required as it may become unresponsive and the copy process will fail.
5|Very happy with this. Backed up my computer and need to back up my Kindle too. Lots of room to do both!
5|Perfect! Great backup that holds everything I need!
5|Very small, compared to my 1TB Drive from about 7 years ago. I reformatted it to ext3 and using it as a backup for my older TB drive, just in case.
5|Very quick delivery. Extremely quiet, I cannot even notice it is on. The small size makes it easy to hide behind the Mac, out of the way. Seems to be cool to the touch, I don't notice any heat. Exceptionally easy to set up as a Time Machine backup drive for Mac OS X 10.11 El Capitan. I plugged it in, and the Mac asked if I wanted to use for backups. After saying yes, it formatted it for the Mac, and started to use it. That's it! It didn't take long to do the initial backup either, so it's quick.
5|Great price, small and elegant.
5|Fast Shipping, Product works great and the Price was exactly what I was hoping to spend. Very Happy with this purchase.
5|NEVER HAD PROBLEMS WITH THIS BRAND, RELIABLE
5|This is an ideal source for a replacement drive for my Macbook Pro. Follow the u-tube videos to remove the case. Actually slimmer than the original 2.5" inch drive. My MBP came with a 750GB. I replaced it with a 1.5 TB, and then with this 2.0 TB. Very easy; requires only a small phillips head screw driver and narrow plastic or metal tool to split the HD case. However, removing the HD from the case might invalidate your warranty. Purchased for $65 on Amazon and MUCH less expensive than all other alternatives for a larger capacity laptop drive. Many good on-line guidance for those who have not yet upgraded their laptops.
5|love this
4|Hardware works fine with Windows 10, but beware of the seagate dashboard backup software - it is NOT fully compatible with Windows 10. I couldn't get it to do anything but a continuous backup, what I wanted was a weekly one but it never would run like that. I finally just gave up and used Windows 10's internal backup utility, it did the job just fine and the drive itself performed perfectly.
5|works perfect
5|Great for backing up a MacBook Pro with Time Machine.
3|Though it was easy to connect and install, I found it impossible to locate backup files. I simply ended up using it as an external hard drive.
5|Good
2|The product arrived without the USB cable and was absolutely not plug and play. After several trips to Best Buy we finally found the correct cable I found a cable that works with this product. After over coming that challenge, we found the drive was not "plug and play" as described in their brief manual. I spent another day researching the internet to understand why none of the laptops would recognize the back up as a drive and why nothing installed. I was able to download all 3 downloads from the Seagate site and I had to use the drive creator software to create a drive on the back up hard drive. Either this device was previously used and wiped clean or something is seriously wrong with this product. I was expecting this to be plug and play and match the instructions that came with the product. It works fine now, it just took a lot of time and frustration, even hours on the phone with Seagate support which provided no help. Its pretty sad when support doesn't know to tell you to download the missing software and use it to create a drive. If you are not tech savvy you may have some challenges.
5|Worked perfectly as an upgrade for my PS4
5|Couldn't pass this deal up. My Macbook Pro hard drive failed two weeks ago and I didnt back anything up. I'm using this as my time machine.
1|I payed for this hard drive and it just doesn't work.
5|could easily use this for my Xbox one!!
1|i ordered this 4TB hard drive to hold a digital movie collection. i have a 2TB western digital drive that works great but is almost full. i tried to copy the western digital drive onto this one and it said there was not enough space. i investigated further and it turns out that no matter how i format this drive there is always at least 1.1TB of "other" on it. i have gone into disk utility on my macbook pro and reformatted it about 5 times and generally it only has 1.8TB available to write onto. I have 4 other external hard drives and I have never run into any issues with any of them. unfortunately i threw out the box after i formatted it the first time and copied some files to it so i can't return it. I'll be calling seagate to try to warranty it through them at the very least. bottom line: i wouldn't buy it again, it doesn't work as advertised for me.
5|Plenty of room in a small item! Easy to use. Back up with this!
5|Very handy drive. Very fast on both usb 2, and usb3 lightning fast.! Just a note to future buyers, this has 2 Tb drives in the enclosure and won't work on either a router via a usb3 or usb3 like my nighthawk router. It won't work on my Samsung 55inch led tv either. But no worries, it's excellent if the drive is on a computer and video files just just shared via your computer. I purchased this to ill replaceable taxes, and family photos and what not.
5|Smaller than what I was imagining, but it's way better than the long, chunky drive a relative was going to pass on. It'll fit in my bag without an issue, and will take up little space!
5|Bought this for my daughter. She like it and use it to keep all her files.
5|Excellent way to store media.
5|Great storage product -- and runs on USB power, so no additional power cord is necessary. Love this!!! And it was a great price!!
5|I have been looking for an external hard drive for a while. I have debated over and over where to buy one (while also getting a great deal), and once I saw this one, the deal was too good for me to pass up. I've had it about a month now and it works great!
5|Okay, so I bought this 4tb drive to upgrade my new TiVo Bolt. Disassembling the drive was straight forward. The enclosure is a plastic tub with a metal top. The top has 3 tabs on each long side and 2 tabs on the short sides. The trick is to pry under the lid, pushing the plastic rim away from the metal lid tabs. Once you have a corner lifted, it comes apart fairly easily. There is metalized tape around the top of the drive which peels loose. Then the drive will lift out. I attached the bare drive to my desktop, detached all of my system drives and booted my system with a Ubuntu 14.04 DVD. Using the text editor, I blessed the drive for TiVo. I installed it in my new Bolt, the Bolt formatted it and loaded it operating system. I have about 700 hours HD recording space now. I am a happy camper. I took the 500gb drive from the Bolt and mounted it in the Seagate enclosure. I formatted to NTFS and it's now a good back drive. The drive in this product is an ST4000LM016. At 15mm thickness it may be to fat for most laptops.
5|Needed to find an external hard drive for my son's Xbox One There was no problem, whatsoever, with hooking it up to the console. Once plugged in, it recognized it right away and formatting was a breeze. Highly recommended.
3|I purchased this drive for backup purposes. It was not my first choice, because a Seagate 1TB internal 3.5 hard drive recently failed on me. Both Western Digital and Seagate internal hard drives have failed in my system recently, so I was hesitant to purchase either brand. However, my first choice drive, the 1TB Toshiba Canvio which I purchased in August 2015, failed within a month. The replacement Toshiba Canvio 1TB also failed within two weeks. I will update this review if this drive fails inside the warranty period. Background information for anyone interested. I have been building and upgrading personal computers for 20 years. I have used many hard drives, from 5MB to recent 5TB models from a dozen manufacturers. Over the years, several of these drives have failed. My usual procedure is to destroy the drive or just store it until the information is no longer relevant. Recently, I retired 5 drives which were 5 to 8 years old, but still working. I purchased mostly 1TB replacement drives to increase my storage capacity. However, the newer drives have failed at an alarming rate. I copied my laptop backup files from an older 500GB Toshiba Canvio to a new 1TB Canvio. This drive failed under light use in less than a month. When I attempted to zero the data on the drive to return it for replacement, all attempts with multiple programs failed due to drive errors. I was forced to return the drive with the data intact for replacement. The replacement drive failed within 2 weeks and I returned it also. Now, to keep my data from being compromised if the drive should fail, I use whole drive encryption. While a little inconvenient, it gives me peace of mind to know that my data cannot be retrieved should I have to return the drive under warranty. I also am using a dual backup system for my laptop, with two USB 3.0 1TB hard drives in rotation. These two drives are from different manufacturers, to spread the risk of single drive failures. Periodically, I copy the contents of these portable drives to my main 5TB backup and various other drives, including a NAS server. I have no desire to put all of my data in the cloud, because of security concerns. I insist on keeping physical control of my data, which is why I have adopted these practices. With the cost per terabyte of storage in the $50 range, this system is not expensive for my needs.
1|2 TB drive failed to operate after 2 months. I had about 1 TB of data on it at the time of failure (extreme frustration). Corrupt drive. I run kaspersky and have all of the security measures to ensure virus and malware protection. This is the 3rd Seagate hard drive in which has failed on me within a year. I thought after a few years since my last purchase, their quality must have gone up. I have babied this drive and all of this sudden it is corrupt, not working on either my laptop or my desktop. Also tried a different usb cable - it is the drive. In addition, I got this at Costco for $79. On Costco's site, it is rated as 3.1 versus this highly inflated 4+ stars on Amazon.
5|It is gooood! I love it!
5|This was to upgrade my TiVo Bolt from 500 GB to 4 TB. You have to remove the drive from the enclosure , disassemble the Bolt, and replace the drive. It works fine. Put an old 500 GB drive into the enclosure.
5|I don't know what I would do without this!
5|As always Seagate delivers
4|Not even a year and this product no longer works. I am not impressed, multiple computers had the same error- connects, reconnects automatically, now not at all. -Update, Went through the trouble shooting to reformat. Although, I lost everything on it this drives seems to be working again. With that, I increased this rating to 4 stars.
5|Fast and quiet. Works great for my xbox one
5|So convenient to have a 4TB external hard drive that DOES NOT need an alternate power source. So many others require you to plug them into the wall and into your USB drive. Love this product and price.
5|This is exactly what I needed to free-up space on my xbox one. It is plug and play really, just turn off the xbox first, plug it in, power on the xbox and allow it to install. Very simple!
5|Everything is great!
5|Very fast, functions as intended, and has yet to give me any trouble.
1|I purchased this drive about seven months ago to use as a back up drive and it was perfect... until it quit working. I thought it was incompatible with El Capitan, but it also does not work with any other OS (Yosemite, Ubuntu, Windows). It also failed most of the SeaTools diagnostic tests. I issued a return through Seagate's site, but I'm fairly annoyed that I have to pay for packaging and shipping to return their defective product. Not to mention, the only option is to receive a new one, which I feel hesitant about using for important data storage. I was very kind to this drive and rarely transported it, even though it should be portable. All this aside, Seagate does offer a generous warranty of two years.
5|It was as promised and I was able to get tech support right away when I needed help. That's a big one for me.
5|I've been looking to buy a new external HDD for awhile now since my 5 year old one finally crashed. This new Seagate model is incredibly small and compares to the size of an iPhone 5s but a little wider. It comes with a bunch of features that I tend to not use but you might. My main purpose of owning an external HDD is to use it as a direct backup to me laptop and run a back up once a month to make sure everything is updated in case my laptop ever crashes. Great little external HDD, let's see how the test of time does with her.
5|It is great to get an item that works the first time as you hope it will. I bought this in order to copy a large collection of files for my daughter on her birthday. Of course, when I loaded it there was still lots of room for more!
5|Using it for my mac with the time machine. I used velcro to secure it to the back of the monitor's stand and have completely forgotten about it. Quietly backs up my stuff. Perfect.
5|Thank You it's super cute and now I can play my game
5|Great external hard-drive! very small in physical size too which is nice for traveling!
5|It looks great and it does what I needed to do. very compact, smaller than I imagened.
5|This is an awesome external hard drive. Durable and long lasting.
5|Great HD for Macs
5|Arrived fast, the drive hasn't failed me yet.
1|the Seagate Backup Plus 4t external hard drive was a huge disappointment. I used it 5 times before it just gave up on me. my computer could no longer recognize it when plugged in. Now I am worried about the 2tb of info I was able to get into it ( Im returning it). I should have read the reviews before buying, other people had the same problem I was faced with
5|Small form factor that works great with our iMac as the Time Machine drive. Especially like that it's powered through the USB cable (no power cord).
5|The best item I purchased this year. I was losing all my data but now I have a better backup system
5|I purchased this hard drive to replace the HDD in my Playstation 4. The PS4's stock drive, aside from having nowhere near enough capacity, was giving me a lot of problems. It had gotten to the point where every time I tried to turn the system off, it would freeze up, forcing me to hold the power button down for 7 seconds to perform a forced shutdown. Even then I could hear the hard drive stop very suddenly and forcefully. Then, on restart, I had to perform a system check to make sure my had drive wasn't corrupted. I needed a new hard drive badly. It was actually cheaper to purchase this Seagate drive in the external enclosure than to purchase the exact same drive without the enclosure, so I had to remove the drive from the case when it arrived. I had intended to keep the enclosure to put the 500GB drive I took out of the PS4 into it, to use as an extra drive for other stuff, but the case itself is very thin and flimsy and, although I was gentle when removing the drive, the case was bent beyond use, so I had to throw it away. The drive itself, however, has been working flawlessly in my PS4 for nearly six months. I have not had a single shutdown or startup issue since replacing the stock drive with this one and I have quadruple the storage space, which is a major time saver since I no longer have to decide what to delete every time I want to install a new game. If you are looking for a replacement HDD for your Playstation 4, this is a great choice.
4|I love it.
5|I just got mine and I bought it from Costco for the same price, didn't wan't to wait, and Costco reviews on this drive are awful but Amazon overall reviews are almost five star, so I took the chance. I wish Costco offered the warranty for two years for six bucks, but they assured me if I had a problem to just bring it back in, so I think I'm covered, their pretty good about that stuff, my dad returned a ten year old item and they said wow you got this a long time ago and they gave him a refund, he spends big bucks with them though, so not sure if they always do that. Anyway back to the drive it's hand held small and comes in an almost impossible to get open package, why do they do that. The trick to opening it is, use a scizzor and make a nice six inch cut anywhere on the package cardboard then bend flap and pull the two piece cardboard apart, trying to cut out the plastic is that holds parts is impossible without heavy duty cutting tools. The drive is plug and play and gives you about 1850 gigs once installed. It has one little light on the top, a gel plastic case that covers the bottom and top slightly, like a cell phone case cover, so try not to drop it while putting on the case, I was worried the case would make it overheat, but I'm hoping they know better. I got a gray drive with purple base cover and it comes with I'm guessing a 2.0 - 3.0 usb cable and for now a free 200gigs for cloude ONE drive, must register by something 2017. The reason I am writing this review is because I couldn't find anyone who said it works with the XBOX 360 and it doe's perfectly, so far anyway, transfering files from your internal 360 drive to this one is quick, 6 gigs is about five minutes. One the file is on this drive which is done by plugging your usb on this unit into back left side of xbox 360, the file stays and shows up exactly where it was on the xbox. I haven't played any games I've transfered yet, but assuming they work if not I will rewrite this. The nice thing though is I have now my 500 gig internal to work with and 1850 gigs of this drive to work with, so I've got a total of almost 2350 gigs. This drive also fits on top of the xbox on the left perfectly where there's no vents, almost like it made for it. On the package it says Xbox One I think and PS4 and windows and mac, but no one ever pushes 360, don't know why, you think that would help sell drives. I've been transfering all my 460 gigs to this drive and it is taking a long time to do, since you have to baby sit as far as I know and do each six gig file individually and manually with the controller selecting this drive from internal or cloud for saved games. Oh, when you start it will ask to format, hit yes, so the xbox can recognize and use this drive. Think I'm done, hope it doesn't crap out in a year, it will be a lot of downloading and will take forever direct from xbox site. Other than that, this is a great cheap alternative if you don't have a five hundred gig internal xbox 360 drive and wan't to get a lot of memory for cheap, it's fifty bucks for a non xbox brand hard drive internal for your xbox 360 that's 500 gigs or this for 75 bucks and is 1850 gigs, do the math. Good luck and happy gaming. Oh it makes no noise at all from six feet away at least.
5|AWESOME! I can confirm that this hard drive works perfectly in the PS4. Went from 500GB to 2TB in a matter of minutes!
5|Very nice. Would definitely buy another one.
5|Great item. I would buy it again the next time I need one!
5|This product, in my opinion, was the perfect balance of design, capacity, and price. The color is very nice and the metal finish is durable and appealing. Even the one led is smoothly integrated into the design. Like many of the competitors this drive fits easily in my hand and is easy to transport. The capacity is rated at 1TB and while the capacity of the hard drive is slightly different, due to a number of reasons a computer science friend of mine rattled off, it is a small amount and not enough to make any practical difference to the average user. This drive is USB 3.0 rated and the transfer speeds are high but not incredible (everyone's computer is different and this will impact the speed). The capacity is sufficiently large for my everyday use. I do not have a huge store of hd videos.
5|Very small slim compact style external hard drive. Love how compact it is!
5|Just what I needed its a nice size too
5|Works great, its my 3rd Seagate backup drive.
2|This is the first hard drive I've purchased from Seagate (been a WD/Lacie customer for many years, but couldn't pass on the price for this 4TB drive). Needed an external to back up my movie/T.V. show library to clear up primary HDD storage. Downloaded the Mac driver from the Seagate website and reformatted. Thankfully I did this next part bit by bit, a little at a time. Reformats (and HDDs) can be questionable, so I started with one movie and two T.V. shows (10 seasons on the first show, seven seasons on the second). After the transfer finished, I correctly ejected the drive, waited a few seconds, and reinserted. (Note: my Mac takes *forever* to recognize this drive. WD's and Lacie's show up on my desktop within 10 seconds, but the 4TB Seagate averages between 1-2 minutes. Not really sure why). Opened the drive and saw the folders for the movie and the two T.V. shows. I decided to play it safe, so I opened the T.V. show with seven seasons and found Seasons 3 and 4 were gone. I started checking all of the folders and found in addition to Seasons 3 and 4 being gone, several individual episodes from the remaining seasons had been corrupted or were missing. Closed the folder, properly ejected the drive again, waited, and reinserted. Opened the drive, folders were still there, but the missing and corrupted files were still ... missing and corrupted. I decided to look at the other T.V. show. That one had all 10 seasons in it, and looked normal. I figured at this point, I'd better check the movie, too. Folder was still there, but when I opened it, the movie file was missing. I concluded that maybe the transfer faced some sort of technical hiccup, so I deleted all of the files from the 4TB drive, and re-transferred them. Same story happened all over again, except this time, the movie was fine, but I lost episodes/seasons from both T.V. shows. Disgruntled, I took the time to upload individual episode files (all of the missing and corrupted ones) to the drive, one by one. Finished that, properly ejected the drive, and waited. Reinserted and everything seemed to stick this time. No missing files, no corrupted files. All seemed well. Been slowly adding more of my library to the drive over the past few days, and so far no issues. Everything is there, everything plays. Not sure what the deal was with the first two rounds. Maybe the drive just needed to be broken in? Or adjust to the newly installed driver on it? Who knows... Overall, a sketchy drive for Mac users... My advice would be to do something similar to my method *before* you put anything of great importance on this drive. Here's to hoping my files stick. So far, 2-star rating just because it was annoying having to transfer the same files multiple times to make sure they were secure. Will update in the future if I run into any more problems or if I feel the drive is stable enough to earn a higher rating. Probably stick with WD's and Lacie's in the future, though...
5|Bought this to upgrade hard drive in PS4. It was successful, put the old drive in here for use as an external.
5|Great unit, great way to increase local storage if you can't access cloud storage.
3|The capacity to physical size ratio on this thing is amazing, and it's the first drive of this kind of capacity I've owned that didn't need its own power supply. All pluses. What's annoying about it is how tender it is about not being ejected properly. Like, listen, I'm a conscientious electronics owner. I know you're not supposed to just yank it out, and I don't, but accidents happen, like my hand accidentally brushing a button on top of my USB hub, or roommates with no OSX familiarity unplugging without ejecting because I asked them to bring me the drive from home. The result is that it gets iffy about mounting, and while I guess I can move what's on it to a temporary home on another drive and repair the drive, what if I didn't have another drive? All my other external drives before this one were hardier. I see that it has the protection plan, and I did buy that because it was only $10, but you know what's easier than having to contact another human being and hoping they can salvage what you have? Not having to do that.
4|Its a decent back up. Its what you would expect for the price. The connection does seem a cheap and inexplicably comes loose. That said, it has functioned well so far and works with Time Machine.
4|Still learning it's capabilities, Backs up all windows and operating system files.
1|Unfortunately one of these that I purchased has failed just outside the returnable period (2.5 months) and has made a mess of my internal computer hard drive in the process, so I can't recommend these. It was my backup drive and had irreplaceable stuff on it that is gone now. Very sad
5|excellent product. Did the trick.
5|nice sleek, and really good quality
5|I removed this 2tb drive from the enclosure and it works great as an upgrade for my PS4. I used the original 500gb drive from the PS4 in the enclosure from this hard drive and connected it to my xbox one to expand the storage. Two console hard drive upgrades for the price of one!
5|Good
5|Nice drive very slim
1|I am not sure if this is defective or what. When I plug it into the USB on my laptop, the little white light in the corner of the Seagate device lights up. Other than that nothing happens. I thought something would come up on my laptop screen but nothing happens, even after plugging it in for 40 minutes. I have heard people mention the "dashboard" but have no idea what this is or where it is. Do I need to do something in order to make this device work? I have previously had a Clickfree & right after plugging in a USB to another desktop I used it with, the backup screen would come up on my computer.
5|If you're looking to upgrade your PS4's hard drive. This is the hard drive to get. The case is easy to remove and you can simply swap the two. Make sure your fingernails are bit long so that you can pry it open. Don't let your 500gb HD collect dust, use it.
4|i've bought seagate expansion hoping that it would support 4k logical.. man.. i was so wrong. one would think "backup" plus means backward compatibility, for those who knows about ppl encountering backup issues due to 4k logical sector, so seagate expansion would be 4k logical. nope, that isn't the case here. the price difference is not justifiable as well. inside the backup plus enclosure is a Samsung branded hdd whereas in seagate expansion, it's a seagate branded hdd. the cushioning of the hdd is better in backup plus. it's smaller too. cheaper too! for those looking for a low-powered high capacity portable hdd with 4k logical sector, you will be disappointed. the single hdd in the enclosure even though stated as AF, advanced format, translates 4k physical sector into 512b logical. what this means is without an interface to retranslate back to 4k sector, you will never be able to have full compatibility with legacy device which has a limit of 32bit addressing. you will never be able to address the full capacity in MBR. you cannot format it as MBR Fat32 partition, only GPT Fat32 or NTFS or other partitioning system. you will fall back to a 2tb "max" hdd. the only solution now is to disassemble the unit, get a 4k interface which could translate 512b back to 4k logical sector and interface with the hdd. seagate freeagent goflex interface seems to be the only option as far as i know.
5|Great Product!
5|exellent hard disk
5|LOVE IT
5|At the time I bought this, it was the fastest external portable HD you could get. Not only that, but it provides 4T of USB 3.0 storage. And it costs only $205 which, in Dec. 2015, was a steal for any 4T drive let alone something as speedy as this. I've installed it and am using it as my primary data drive on an ASUS i7 laptop running Windows 10, connected to a USB 3.0 port. I can confirm that it's lightning fast. It's also whisper quiet. Setup was easy. Just plug it in. You can optionally register it with Seagate and get 200G of additional cloud storage on Microsoft OneDrive. That will also give you access to Seagate's "Dashboard" for Windows software, which is a backup app that allows you to replicate your data to other drives or the cloud. Oddly enough, despite the free OneDrive storage, Dashboard doesn't support OneDrive for replication. It does support Google Drive and Dropbox. It has a simple UI that's easy to use. I was able to connect it to Google Drive easily. I haven't used it to backup yet, but will, and will report back here after I have done so. (My primary backup app is Scooter Software's Beyond Compare. It's an excellent solution but too complex and risky for the average bear to use.) I plan to benchmark the drive and will report the results back here.
5|I use this external drive on my Xbox one. I am very happy with this purchase. I was tired of deleting games from lack of storage space. This drive is very small and looks very clean. Just plug it up in the back of the xbox via USB. After formatting, which takes 30 seconds, this drive is ready for use. I have had no problems with it, in fact my games load up even faster on this drive in comparison to the consoles hard drive. I recommend any who hasn't bought an external drive for this Xbox or PS4 to buy this one. Great quality and a great price. Also, 2TB is more than enough space. No need for those bigger 5TB models.
5|good
5|Great size for the capacity. Plugs in and works superbly.
5|No issues
5|Love my seagate. I WAS buying western digital -but I had two problems. One of them just crashed. According to the computer consult- the drive had moving parts and they go bad. Seriously after one month. Then another Western digital had conflicting error message and wanted to treat the extra drive like a recycle bin. I was so frustrated, I replaced all western digitials with SEAGATE !
5|bought the unit about a year ago and it's worked like a champ. no problems whatsoever.
5|Plenty of storage, it's great
5|Superb and great price! Tiny, beautiful and FAST!
5|Good stuff
5|Small compact external hard drive very easy installation of software and the free cloud is a plus
5|If you are not a tec person,but rely on your computer for banking,storage etc.This is perfect.easy to set up and use and offered me more ways to use my devices!Really found this easy to use.
4|So far so good, it's holding a lot of personal and professional stuff.
5|Slim form factor, easy installation, very silent when in use, and nice design. No problems with the device so far.
5|Great so far.
5|Excellent storage, very thin and portable.
5|Great price and quiet.
1|I have bought two of these. Kept one too long to return it. Just assumed it would work. When it didn't I ordered another. One worked in neither computer. I returned that newer one. The older one works in my PC with windows 7 but not in my new computer with windows 8. Arrrrrgh.. It seems to recognize it and shows up in the drives but does not open. I am going back to Toshiba or Passport drives which have always worked for me.
1|I usually don't write reviews but this is warranted. I purchased this September of 2014 and go figured just outside of its warranty its corrupted and cannot be formatted. I took it in to get it fixed and it's completely shot. I had 1 TB worth of info on there and contacted the company to try and get the info back and after they sold me there recovery program (an additional $100) I was unable to extract anything. Never again.
4|Not as fast as I thought, however I truly appreciate the fact that this is exactly 4TB, no 3.6 or some of those scams they usually use for storage. Mine came with a Free Year of Amazon Cloud Storage and two free years of One Drive.
5|Works great as our backup drive. Software is easy to set up for periodic backups and the drive has plenty of space. Has been working on our computer with no issues now for months.
5|I converted it to be used internally as my ps4s hard drive and it is still going strong after like 6 months.
5|This product was a gift
5|Love it. Never fails. Easy to use . Customer service at Seagate was especially good when I needed help reformatting the drive for my Mac. Nice folks to work with. They were easily reached and a great help.
1|Failed after only 1 year of use in ps4... I always gave my ps4 breaks, always turned off properly, and yes the ps4 works properly now that I replaced this drive. Also, system has never been dropped, well ventilated, never used by children, and only moved a couple of times to the bed room from living room.
5|Price was right and working great as an external for my unreasonably small amount of memory for my XBOX ONE, no problems and very compatable
2|This drive is a complete disaster. 1) when you copy files to it, windows 10 gives you no display telling you the percent complete, it just goes into a black hole. If you watch the drive, you can see the files being copied over, but no UI. And then it often won't finish copying, and you have NO idea why. 2) when using the included backup software, it will only get so far in doing the backup, then freeze (I let it sit for 3 days at one point, and overnight on my 2nd attempt). 3) the seagate dashboard software often just freezes, so you can't use it at all. 4) I emailed Seagate customer service asking for help, and now 5 days later I still have no response. This drive will be going back to Amazon for a refund ASAP. I am very disappointed. =============== UPDATE 1: I moved the drive to a new PC I was building, and the problems 1) and 2) above went away. And Seagate support got back to me after 8 days (they promise 48 hours), but they were unable to help solve the problem on the first PC at all. So, since the drive is working now, I upgraded my review to 2 stars.
5|Thanks to all the Amazon User Reviews for providing the steps necessary to replace the PS4 HDD using this drive. Super easy to do, save $, and now have an enclosure for the original PS4 500Gb . If you're using this, follow the instructions carefully to remove the top and bottom parts of the this enclosure. I used a flathead driver, as described, and gently twisted the driver between the plastic bottom and metal cover to pry them apart. Do this carefully as it's easy to scratch the plastic. Also, when installing the drive in the PS4, don't over-tighten the mounting screws to prevent them from being stripped (also as recommended in Amazon Tips).
1|Item was damaged but still works Box was basically open when I received it But it still works
3|Needs to be formatted to work with ps3. Easily done but have to search for program.
5|I tried to download an app to use on my Mac and it doesn't work however the hard drive works really well I am currently using it as a time machine back up very fast I like how I get 200 gigs free of cloud storage on one drive. Great for caring lots of porn!
5|Easy to use. No issues. Quick arrival.
5|good product, you can buy locally for the same price
1|this driver is GARBAGE!!! like all other seagate products. this is the second one i bought from them. they both failed. its garbage i lost thousands of dollars worth of files on it don't trust it ever
1|I can run faster then this backup and that isn't saying much. My first backup of 250G is going on 5 hours and is only 22% complete. I would try a different product this is a bust.
3|it's a little bit expensive for the quality. the external hard drive is so slow that you can try sleep a few hours. for this reason I just gave three stars.
5|Great device. Received by promised due date. Could not be happier.
3|I like the Seagate drives, but ended up getting a refurb when I ordered a new one. Was not happy. Sent it back for a refund and ordered from a different seller.
5|Slim and well designed.
5|Works great so far in my new PS4. One thing I would recommend if you are buying this as an upgrade for the PS4 hard drive is to pay attention to the way the original drive is positioned in the PS4's hard drive tray as you pull it out from the PS4. I have a brand new PS4 and the side of the hard drive that faces "up" in the tray, is the side with the circuit board showing, not the side with the case, as many YouTube videos show using older models.
5|Great hard drive! Works as advertised.
4|Very quiet and compact, but too slow for everyday use. Using it for backup, it would take about 4 days full time per TB.
5|I had some seriouse issues trying to get the harddrive to open as a folder. I guess it was formated as "NTFS". If you want to format it to get it to open as a folder on your computer this site helps. [...]
5|Works perfectly with our XBOX360. No need to buy the XBOX-branded 2TB version if you only need 1TB.
5|Worked perfectly in my ps4. Easy to open an extract hard drive. Great cheap upgrade for ps4.
5|A+
5|Nice portable backup for my Macbook. Worked great the first time I backed up my system. Very easy to use and portable.
3|I used this to upgrade the memory on my ps4. Gave me the memory I wanted but it is very loud compared to my old drive. That is my only complaint as if right now.
2|I'm not really happy with this product. I initially received one as a gift and thought wow...finally something that can hold a significant amount of data. It completely died after about 6 months of use, and I lost all the material stored on it, including a video tribute I made for my Aunt's funeral. I thought it was a fluke, so I purchased another. That one also died after about 8 months of use. I'd also purchased the recovery option, and while the people I interacted with were friendly, the process is frustrating and problematic. I'm angry with myself for buying this product when I knew it wasn't viable over the long haul. An expensive mistake.
5|Best on the market.
5|Delivered on time and as expected.
5|Looks cute and is very handy
5|I love how small and compact this drive is. I can take it anywhere. I love that I don't have to plug it into an outlet for it to work (unlike another seagate drive I purchased). It's basically like a USB but bigger and with a lot more storage. I would definitely recommend.
5|Really great quality from Seagate. I order the 2TB version and the available memory came out to 1.81TB, however, this data loss from the stated memory is to be expected from all producers of sd cards, usb jump drives, and hard drive makers. It's just how it works. The product is very thin and looks beautiful. Much easier on the eyes than my old dinosaur 2TB Seagte drive that was at least 10 times bigger, felt very cheap, and required a separate power cord. This model is powered through USB only and every computer I've plugged it into so far has recognized it right away. It's been a great purchase for me and I'd buy another in a heartbeat.
1|does not work stops at 3% and holds, no back up has ever been successful. I waited too long to return UGH
5|Got this to swap my PS4 hdd and worked perfectly
5|Bought this as a gift for my fiancé. He loves it! He's clearing out the files on his laptop and this drive has so much room
1|I bought this to download everything off her computer onto it so before computer crashed. I was very excited to get it out there in a good timely manner. It was very well protected and it looked great when it got here. However when I went to put the my pictures and stuff onto it for my computer it wouldn't work. So I called customer service which was absolutely wonderful. Only problem is is they didn't say that it wasn't going to be compatible with my computer. I didn't think my computer was that old but apparently since it was from 20 09 it wouldn't work with it. So now I have a hard drive I can't use and my pictures and everything are still stock on the computer. I gave it one star because I can't tell you if it's going to work because they didn't tell me it wouldn't work with my computer. It might be a very great product however I will not know until I can get a new computer and see if it works on it.
2|Immediately frustrated right out the door with this product. I went to Set Up for Mac and it took me to the Seagate website... why? No clue, because when I clicked on the "Mac" tab it came up with an error message saying I must have been there by accident and to go back and try again. This happened every single time I tried to set it up. I ended up downloading a Dashboard app thinking that would solve my problem, but it never gave me the option to backup to the external drive, only to send stuff on the drive (there was nothing) to social media or from mobile devices. I'm not completely ignorant to technology. I've used external hard drives before, but those were always very simple. You plug it in, install some software, and you're good to go. But I thought that perhaps this time I was just not seeing the simple setup process, so I tried to call Seagate for some customer support. Apparently, they close for office meetings and weren't even able to take a message or offer me a different support solution aside from looking at supports threads on their website (which were not helpful). I took to the Internet and found a thread on Apple's website that instructed me to download a third-party software that would allow me to access the hard drive. I got the info here: https://discussions.apple.com/message/27194338#27194338 and it ended up working! I also reformatted the hard drive to Mac OS Extended (Journaled) per someone else's suggestion. I ordered this drive as a way to store files for the small company I work for and to free up my Macbook, and I am afraid that after I leave the company, the person who fills my place won't be able to use it and it'll be a $70 brick, so that makes me nervous. I also bought the support package with it, but since Seagate can't be bothered to actually put someone on the phone, I don't trust that either. I have an older Seagate for my own personal backup and it always worked great... when I had a PC. So I am guessing that this brand doesn't do well with Macs. Honestly, now that I've messed around with it enough, it will probably work fine. I hope that it will, anyway, because it is the most affordable drive on the market and Mac still lists it on their website as an option, so in theory it should work. So I will begrudgingly keep it, and I have given it 2 stars because I guess it works now.
3|When the external hard drive came, I made sure to reformat the filesystem to NTFS just in case. The product starting having issues two months from then. My friend checked it out for me and found out that there were Cyclical Redundancy Errors. I ran command prompt on Administrator and typed in chkdsk G: /F . So far I haven't had too many issues with it, but those times when the Hard Drive slows down its read/write for (no) reason irritates me. Guess quality can only come so much when it's 20% off from its competition.
5|I bought this to be a secondary backup to another Seagate external hard drive. I ordered this in blue so that I could identify which was primary and which was secondary. Well, I needn't have worried. This Seagate is not much bigger than my iPhone...the older (primary backup) is about the size of a thick large-print novel. I don't need to have different colors to keep them straight! I'm not technical enough to speak to transfer speeds and various software. I just use this as a secondary backup. To date this is working well. I backup the primary drive to this drive 1-time/month just in case something catastrophic happens to both the computer and the other external hard drive. It takes several hours to complete this back-up, so I usually just set it up before going to bed for the night & it is complete by morning.
4|Excellent product, portable and does the job in saving your data and to retrieve when and wherever you may go!
5|Light and fast.
5|Love this thing finally got to clean up all my files and put in one place
5|I got this drive for one reason: high capacity digital storage with the hope of having a cool looking extra external drive case to boot. I finally opened - correct that, pried LOL - the case open to remove the internal drive which I installed as a second drive in a 13" MacBook Pro. That was done by swapping an OWC spare drive bay for the DVD drive. Inside the Seagate, the internal was strapped in with aluminum tape. The case was not designed for a purchaser to remove the drive. But I did it and have no clue whether the case will work with another drive installed. On my MacBook however, it's GREAT having an added 2TB of storage built in! (but I just got a DVD gift that I can't play on it now!)
5|great device
5|Works great, sturdy, love the color and design
1|First of all not all of the USB ports recognise it. Every other week it gives me a notification that HDD has to be formatted. And doesn't allow copying or moving any files. After 1 month return of this HDD has been closed, so at the moment I have a broken HDD which is not working and have no possible way of returning.
5|Transport quickly, good product quality
5|I have many seagate hard drives, both portable and desktop. They are all high quality and have lasted me years. I have only ever had one of their drives fail on me in 5 years of heavy, heavy use. This hard drive has been no exception to the high quality I've come to know thus far. The only beef I have with this drive (and the 4 TB desktop drive) is that it will not interface with my Samsung TV directly (as all other lower capacity seagate hard drives will). That being said, this is one of 2 purely storage 4 TB hard drives that I have and do not "need" the direct TV interface.
3|Says it's made for MAC, but still had to format it to use it. Wanted something that wasn't so much inconvenience.
5|the only problem is this is not compatible with gaming system
4|Works as expected
5|Instead of deleting stuff you don't need, just back it up to an external drive and worry about it some other time. This is used on a Mac, so I had to format it on my Windows PC first. (That's irony.) Took several hours, but what's time to a pig. Plugged it into the Mac, works perfectly, and all our 2 megapixel pictures taken with my old cell phone are now saved for eternity.
5|Works great in the ps4 and a piece of cake to open up.
5|So far it is perfect, hope it won't be broken in a short time.
5|I bought this for my husband to use with his XBox One. It literally took SECONDS for him to format the external HD. Data transfer was completed very quickly and in our house, Seagate is a highly recommended and trusted name. I expect lasting quality out of this product.
5|I bought this hard drive on Black Friday for a great price but it is easily worth the higher price it is at now. The USB 3.0 speeds are amazing and the capacity versus the price per gigabyte is very solid, I use this hard drive literally every single day and it has never let me down. It's a very compact although I will admit it's a little bit heavy for size but of course this is due to the large 2 TB capacity. I really can't think of any cons for this except for maybe that included USB cable is a little bit on the short end which is funny because that's how I preferred but something to keep in mind for other people even though you can just pick up another one for cheap. The Seagate dashboard software that is offered with this product is solid but I just don't use it. Another thing that I love that Seagate does is they offer a free NTFS driver with OS X that way you can access read and write your files from windows and OS X no need to format in a different file system The only downside which I understand is that Seagate locks it to Seagate drives only so you can't plug in any NTFS and use it unless it's Seagate. Overall amazing hard drive that is reliable extremely compact and slim and a Great value in terms of price per gigabyte and capacity
5|This Seagate 4TB 2.5inch External USB drive has a USB3 interface. It work well for me. I did not do any speed testing, but read & write times seems normal to me. It is about as thick as my old GoFlex 1.5TB (ie. slightly thicker than the typical 500GB unit). However, this 4TB does not need the GoFlex adapter so it is much more compact than my GoFlex 1.5TB. In fact, it is about the same thickness & width as my old Cravio 2TB drive, but the Seagate 4TB is slightly longer. I am not sure why. Perhaps, the interface board is bigger? . F010606.
5|Excellent drive, bought two of them, and I am quite satisfied with them.
5|so far so good
5|Got this external hard drive because I needed one for my photography class. We were using Mac computers and this hard drive worked great with Mac after it was reformatted! It's been almost a year, and it still works great, I still use it for extra storage.
5|It's fast and come with free cloud.
5|Works great on my Mac to hold all my music and movies.
5|inexpensive with lots of space!
5|This drive is working great in my PS4
4|Small sick is. Perfect for on the go. Software is confusing how it stores files
5|Was able to store all of my pictures, home videos and music on one external drive.
5|What do I say!! Have been using Seagate drives for past 15+ years .. So far I didnt face any problems with those drives
5|A powerful backup that I use all the time
5|I was really skeptical at first whether or not to get this because of its failure rate, but I got it anyways since the price was low, and it worked really well. I've had it for 3 weeks and it hasn't stuttered or made weird noises as stated in other reviews.
4|The capacity of this drive is 4TB. It is a single hard drive that comes formatted in Dos format for windows. For Mac users, go to disk utility and erase the drive and reformat in journaled extended. This will take longer than you are used to, and at one point will appear that it is frozen. It is not frozen, it is doing its thing. . Takes about three to four minutes to format. The speeds are as expected being USB 3.0. I used carbon copy cloner to make a clone backup of my entire computer hard drive with no issues. Reading and writing to the drive was un eventful and performed well. The appearance of the drive is black matte surface. The sounds emanating from the box are typical platter based clicks and whirs. Nothing major to report there. This Seagate comes with a two year warranty, and my bet, if I was a betting man, is that it will die two years and three days after the warranty expires. You know Im right, its happened to you too. So I will be backing it up at the two year mark. At these speeds and size I find it works perfect for movie storage and streaming. I have had four seagate barracuda drives fail in the last year, so this will be my last seagate for a good while. Moved on to WD reds and blacks.
5|Excellent service. Great product.
5|I've used Seagate products for years and they never disappoint or fail on me. This hard drive is no exception. I've used Maxtor, Western Digital, and Seagate; only Seagate has been error free. This drive I bought to get data of my Maxtor drive before it fails as its warning me.
4|Worked great on an Xbox 360 which has its own tiny 4GB storage! ... Now it is 1000GB!
5|Great USB 3.0 drive
5|Super easy to set up, trusted brand
5|Researched many external hard drives and kept coming back to this one. I have backed up all important pictures and videos and was very easy to setup.
1|I bought this device after reading the reviews and determinining the quality would be good. I used it to transfer some data from a Mac and use them on a PC. I installed the drivers and it worked fine for the first couple of weeks, but now the device is not recognized by either my Mac and my PC. It appears on Device Manager (PC) and System Report (Mac), but it's not readable on MyComputer or Finder, and I don't know what to do to get my files back (which in the meantime I had deleted on my Mac). I have spent endless hours browsing forums and possible solutions, with no luck. I am extremely disappointed.
5|I've been using this for a week and had no problem so far.
1|Stopped working with no warning after a few months. It was fine though I had a few problems accessing files from other computers, but it stopped working pretty quickly. I never even dropped it or did anything to cause it to fail.
5|fast and cool
1|I have been buying external HDDs for years now and I have yet to come across an abomination of a product as this drive. While using the drive for less than 3 hours it suddenly disconnected and does not get recognized by the PC anymore. I get the same message whenever I use it with other PCs and when I disconnect and reconnect it through different ports. I would like to point out that I have tried all support websites and links I could find to troubleshoot the problem on Seagate, YouTube, Microsoft and all my attempts were in vain.
5|The single disk 4 TB portable works great in my systems. It works fine with Samsung TVs for video content. The dual disk 4 TB portable had a few problems with requiring dual power connections. No such problems with this drive! Excellent product...
5|Buy this.. This is the smallest 4tb drive you can get.
5|I bought this because I accidentally upgraded my iOS and din't back up my macbook so it stopped recognizing my old external HD altogether. This one is slimmer and works great, especially after I finally backed up my macbook onto it. It's just nice to have all the pictures I've taken stored in one place.
5|good product
5|Product meets expectation.
5|I took the time to comparison shop and there are some Brands I will not buy because of poor quality or workmanship. This is A good 2Tb for the price. I paid 69 on Amazon and still see it higher else where including the PX at 89.! I use mine strictly for automatic backups and have not had a problem yet.
5|this is my first love it
5|This was my Christmas gift to myself. Good decision. Excellent quality and good performance.
5|Just what we needed
1|So frustrating and not the lease bit user friendly. There was no clear-cut directions for setting up for a Mac -just finding the serial number was a over the top labor intensive. By sheer luck I found the serial number and registered but then my password I had just created wasn't recognized. The enclosed paper work suggests a specialized web address for Mac however still, no clear-cut instructions as to how to 'format' for a Mac. And most importantly where is the directions on how I use actually use the Hard Drive to save my data ? Instead of providing instructions the website gives two options Seagate Store to purchase and oh again registration.
5|A
5|Immediately bought this one without any hint of hesitation because of the glaring star rating it has and the awesome reviews it garnered. Nope, not disappointed when it arrived the other day.
4|Haven't had trouble with it yet but I really wish they come with a longer usb wire. It's fine for a laptop but with a desktop it's a little different.
1|I bought 4 units and after six months of *very* light use, two of them are dead (data not accessible). I will have to go to an off site location to check on the condition of the other two. I am trying the Lacie 4tb and hope for better reliability.
5|good product
5|perfect, fast too
5|Amazing, reliable and super portable hard drive. I must have 10 of these things and always carry 2 when I travel. Won't weigh you down.
5|returned because not compatible with Apple
5|Very pleased with purchase & quick delivery!
5|This drive is tiny, fast and holds a lot of data. Everything you need when traveling. I especially like that it is powered through the USB connection to the computer, making it easy to use whenever, wherever. I've used it daily for a couple of months now with no trouble. Definitely recommend it for anyone who needs a good drive and is constantly on the go.
5|Great
3|If you buy it then buy two and make a copy of data... as this will stop working any day and then Seagate will charge you $600 for recovery. No body will reply you in 15 days... even after that .. you need to lot of follow-ups.... After so much of hard work .. you will see that ... part of data recovered and if you contact them ... then you must read terms and condition :) So, best suggestion is buy two and replicate your data ... otherwise loose your data :) Happened to me ... :) :) rest is good ... best of luck ..
5|I'm really happy! The price its good and it works good also!!!
5|amazing.
4|Nice unit, the software it comes with is good but not great.
5|Great product, I recommend this product.
5|Very awesome product.
5|Love this thing. Can't believe that it holds 1TB for the price. Would buy another but don't think i'll need to for a long time.
5|Good item
5|Seagate products are the best out there. This item is small and easy to install. No problems at all.
5|I use it for my Xbox one. Couldn't be happier with it. I'd rather have the 500 gig Xbox with this hard drive than the 1 tb Xbox. It's supposed to load faster than the internal Xbox drive but I can't tell. Couldn't beat it for $70
3|I was hoping to consolidate all of our movies and pictures from our computer, laptop and tablet but I was really disappointed when I found out I couldn't. The tablet tells me to format.
2|product returned; software is not Linux compatable
5|Great product, super fast shipping!
5|Perfect for the price good item
5|This is a great device
4|I purchased this for use with my Channel Master DVR. It has performed well during these 8 months.
5|Used it with my macbook pro; zero problems whatsoever after a quick reformatting. Functional and a great price. Do it.
5|I use this to expand the hdd space on my laptop. I actually store my games on this device so that I can save space on the local drive for more important files. The drive has a USB 3.0 connection and is super fast and I can use it to play my games seamlessly. I also use these drives to back up my important files on my PC in case my PC drive fails. These drives have worked flawlessly for me so far and I will most likely purchase more in the future if I have a need for additional storage space.
4|Works well with iMac. Speeds aren't as much as I was hoping for, but it performs ok. I've never seen the speeds advertised, but that may be due to something else. I would think a top of the line iMac 5k wouldn't be the problem though....
5|Bought this for $69.99 at the beginning of December on Amazon to put in my PS4. Very simple to take the case apart, just removed and put this 2tb inside my PS4 and everything has been working perfectly. The hard drive inside the one I purchased was a Samsung Spinpoint 2tb 5400rpm. At the price I paid for this I couldn't pass this opportunity up to upgrade my PS4 stock hard drive.
5|Easy to configure, stores more data than I'll ever put on it (but just in case). Super small so it doesn't take up a lot of space on your desk. I'd buy it again.
5|I purchased this hard drive to run Ubuntu Linux for a class that I was taking. It was pretty simple to use. You still need to partition the drive to save work. I have since deleted the Ubuntu from the hard drive and used it to back up my all my devices. It was really easy to use. This is a great price for what you are getting. The drive it very small and super thin. I will be purchasing anther one to back up and keep in our fire safe.
3|I've had some unusual issues getting this drive to work on some of my computers. Even after reformatting it still won't work under certain circumstances.
5|good
5|good so far
3|Packaging was great. Brand new. But when i plugged it in my computer, i got to tegister the device, install a plug in for it but did not see the exact icons that were in the pamplet with it. I back it up but not automatically. But its working.
5|Sleek and light as paper. I have seen bigger matchbox. This is embodiment of portable drive
1|Did not last a year, even I have used it couple of time only. From seagate dashboard "connectivity test" itself was failing. Had to return it to manufactured(Seagate) by paying additional delivery cost. Now they had sent re-certified one. Not sure if seller has the best pieces available with him or it was seagate problem.
5|I bought this on Black Friday for $69.99. It is a great little drive to use as a portable backup drive or to install in your PS4. If you bought it for file storage it is USB powered, slim form factor, comes with a 2 year warranty, and cloud storage. For PS4 hard drive, upgrade keep reading: The drive is 113.5mm long and 76mm wide. The thickness is what you need to worry yourself with if installing in a PS4. This drive is the proper thickness. Other brands are too thick. Removal Instructions (Warranty will be void): - Watch this video on Youtube and you should be able to easily remove the cover off you drive without damaging it beyond use. Note: I used a blade for prying the top and bottom of the case apart. https://youtu.be/qo8-F9kzlIw For PS4 setup you will need to back up your PS$ hard drive to a dedicated external hard drive (all data will be lost). Then install this drive in the PS4. Initialize the new hard drive in the PS4 using a download of the latest PS4 firmware off Sony’s website to either the external HD or a USB thumb drive. Lastly restore the backup from the external hard drive. Optional: install the PS4 hard drive in the enclosure if you were able to salvage it.
1|1st instance: Drive just failed to appear even though Windows acknowledged (chimed) I plugged it in
5|i bought this for my husband for his xbox 1.....all we did was plug it into the computer so it could format then right into the xbox one and it works amazing.....no complaints for us working great for what he needs.
5|great case for the money. Would highly recommend.
5|this is a Christmas git for my son. I beliee he will love it. Thank you!
5|nice looking, fast, no external power required. worked great as a time-machine backup for my new macbook. love it. great value. in fact, i bought a second one!
5|Easy. Fast. And QUIET! Exactly what I wanted.
5|Plugged it into my Xbox One and formated it and it works great!
5|Bought this to use in my PS4. Works great!
5|exactly what I needed to add capacity to my dvr - works perfectly, no glitches
5|I use a similar hard drive at work and they are definitely worth the price. They are durable and reliable (from my experience) and I can not recall having one fail on me yet. Of course they will get wore out over time but I would recommend these drives for anyone needing a back up solution.
5|Perfect solution for backing up 15 years of digital pictures and be able to carry them with you! Simple plug & play. Interfaces easily with PC and Apple devices.
5|I can't say enough good things about this drive. It's small, it moved data FAST and works like a charm. I am a video and photography producer and I don't know what I'd do without fast portable storage like this guy. Oh how times have changed since the big bulky mybooks. A great buy at this price...you won't be sorry.
5|This portable external drive and its cousin the Seagate 4GB are the Best
3|Good product and excellent service.
5|Easy to use and takes up a small space for the amount of file space you get. Couldn't ask for anything better.
2|I purchased this drive a little over a year ago and have had nothing but problems with it after a month of light use. I mainly used the drive to store media and I accessed it infrequently that first month. Eventually, I had to use the drive to archive a lot of work video and that is when I ran into problems with it. 1st instance: Drive just failed to appear even though Windows acknowledged (chimed) I plugged it in. 2nd instance: Drive appeared as "Local Drive" but I was unable to access it or run Windows disk management on it. Formatted it using 3rd party software and the device showed up. 3rd instance: "Local Drive" issue again 4th instance: Drive would appear with the correct drive name but would take many minutes to access a single directory. 5th instance: The drive will not pass any Seagate drive tool tests. (SMART, Short/Long Generic, or Advanced Test) Incredibly, there is no way to update the firmware since it reports the serial number as unknown. I'm not a computer expert and I don't have the desire to be one. I tried what I thought would work on the drive and was disappointed that it just kept on giving me issues. Keep in mind that between the instances I listed the drive worked, and when it worked it was what I paid for; a fast, high capacity media brick. Ultimately, though, this was a purchase I regret.
5|Useful purchase
5|This is the second Seagate Backup External Drive that I've purchased to use as a Time Machine backup for my Macbook Pro. Super easy to set up for Apple products and as a bonus it includes 200 GB of cloud storage if you register the drive with Seagate. Nothing wrong with my old Seagate drive - I just needed larger storage capacity. I will continue to use the older one for other storage uses for old files I don't need everyday, but that I don't want to get rid of just yet. I chose the red one to differentiate it from my other drive and from a design standpoint, it's sleek and sassy. The 1TB drive is about the size of a deck of cards, but about half the thickness. As a note, I have OS X Yosemite installed and estimated time to back up about 150GB is about 2 hours.
5|I just can't believe how thin and compact these external hard drives are getting with 2TB of storage. I remember back in the day a 2TB external hard drive would look like another desktop CPU. It is really nice to be able to basically take everything with you that is on your hard drive at home in such a small compact package. I have't had an issue with this hard drive and it has been a work horse so far.
5|usb3...super fast,,,
5|This is my first external hard drive (I know, right?) and I mostly use it to backup my photographs and music. I love how small and durable it is (I've dropped it a few times without any visible damage). The only thing I wish it came with was a carrying pouch, but that's just me. I use it with my laptop and the speed isn't an issue. I mean, it's not instantaneous but it's great for what I need it for (transferring photographs mostly).
5|I purchased this for a customer and they have no complaints, we use it for Time Machine backups on a mac. It performs flawlessly.
5|very small and useful, also speed enough.
4|Had problem formatting it for Mac but a great drive for backups Thais portable
1|DO NOT BUY THIS DRIVE FOR A MAC UNLESS YOU ARE AN EXPERT. Even then, it hardly seems worth your time to wrestle this one onto the mat. It takes a while to figure out how to set up the drive using the software from Seagate (for the Mac). And then you Time Machine will not be able to use the drive. So you have to search around until you find that you must then use the Mac system utility to reformat the drive. Then it will work with Time Machine. My advice? Go to the Mac store and buy a drive.
5|Its so compact. I love it.
5|I took this sort and put it into my PS4. It works great, faster than the stock PS4 hard drive. I was even able to put the old 500gb PS4 hard drive into this casing and use it as a normal e thermal hard drive.
5|It is an excellent product, received in the estimated time, it is good quality and very functional.
5|Really fast, great storage. Integrates seamlessly with my mac. Arrived quickly. No complaints.
5|For years have been needed a hard drive to store all the pictures I take of my children and procrastinated because I wasn't sure what to look for. Finally I did my online research and choose this one. Per the internet 1TB should hold around 2 million pictures so I went ahead and bought this one. Well after putting all my pictures on the drive I believe it will probably hold close to that because I have hardly used any storage. The drive also was supper easy to use, you just plug it in and start dragging pictures into it.
5|Love it..I feel my data is safe!
5|1 TB in the palm of your hand. I remember hauling home a 2 GB hard drive "shuttle" for work. It was 8 inches wide, 14 inches long, and 5 inches tall. Weighed 5 pounds. and that was a "portable" hard drive. This little beauty works perfectly for my current needs. No sound. Small and plenty of storage. Really like the brushed aluminum finish. Works great as a complete emergency boot volume for my network of macs, with utilities installed to diagnose issues and repair volumes.
5|works great
5|Bought two, nice stuff
1|Bought this to use with the xbox one. For some reason every time I plug it in, my xbox can no longer sign me in, or connect to the wifi. I thought something was wrong with my xbox until I unplugged this hard drive and it started working fine. I formatted this drive twice and it still causes my xbox to be useless. Maybe I received a defective drive but I will be returning this .
5|Good
1|I bought this Seagate hard drive back in July... I"ve barely used it besides backing up some movies and now it's "un-readable" by my Mac. Mac repair tools won't work, so I turned to Seagate's Tools. The Seagate repair tool seems to be a new UI for the same stuff that comes standard on your computer. After being unable to fix the hard drive, I turned to Seagate's website for their data recovery tool. They'll let you run their tool for free, and it will tell you if it's recovered your data or not... But then they make you buy their program to recover your data. Their hard drive fails and then they make you pay to get your data back. SCAM.
5|good
1|Failed after 14 days of use. 4TB Model, Part # 1K9APV-500 It took 4 days to transfer 2 years of work to it. I had just consolidated over 1.3 TB of data to it comprising of 4739 files. I haven't had a chance to back it up on a duplicate drive yet. It's all gone. Just gone. In the middle of using the drive, the computer suddenly says, "USB Device Failed". The drive was never bumped, dropped, or for that matter, hardly even handled. It never even left the top of my desk. I don't care about the cost of the drive....its the data. Hoping that it was just the internal SATA to USB adapter that failed and that data could still be recovered from the drive, I opened up the case and plugged the drive in to an independent SATA to USB cable and no luck. The data is gone. I'm horrified. By the way, this 1K9APV-500 (4 TB) model has a single Samsung ST4000LM016, Part # 1N2170-566 Hard Drive in it. Its not like the older 1JFAP1-500 (4 TB) model which has two Samsung ST2000LM003 2TB Hard Drives in it (which proved to be very reliable as I've used several of them for years).
4|good brand, product, performance, warranty. win and mac compatible. looks nice, no problems.
5|I've bought 2 of these. Have had the first one for a year and its working great. I got the latest one for my daughter to replace a different drive that failed.
5|I was used it before , that is so good!
5|Easy, portable and reliable extra space for transferring digital data. I love this product!
5|Bought this for my Xbox One, plugged it in, formatted it and it works. Plain and simple.
5|Love it
5|Received fast and as described.
5|So far I have a 171 movies, and a ton of files, which I back up on this device. I don't think ive hit the half way mark for space. It's a great external hard drive.
3|The intent of the drive is good. Just don't think it's compatible with OSX El Capitan
5|I like these they are very thin esp. if you compare to Lacie ruggeds and the wd ultra or my passport not 100% they will last but so far they are pretty great. They are 5400 rpm drives so the speed is not amazing but for back up they are fine..speeds are about 74mb/s write 54 mb/s read that's using the aja disk tester for video editing. That's typical for usb3 on a macbook pro that uses usb3 not the older ones...
1|This is supposed to be a 1 tb hard drive. I am getting 232 gigs.
5|simple. Plug it in. It works. Don't get much better than that.
5|Better than expected.
5|I have so much stuff I need to back and I suffer from some OCD so all of my backups need to be the same model. Only the color varies with this blue one being for all my children's cartoons and shows. I plug it directly into the back of our living room TV ( a newer Samsung smart TV) and it immediately read it. With about 1TB of shows the kids always have something to watch.
5|Data transmitting super fast, looks so cute.
5|This is the first external backup I have bought. I am a photographer and need a backup of all my thousands and thousands of photos. I am a Mac user and had no problems at all getting this cute unit up and running. It is also very fast. It is nice and small and very study.
5|Put in my ps4 and worked perfectly
5|Very nice unit. Just hooked it up and backed up my files. No problem
5|I purchased two of these and had them put into my gaming laptop. With my 4TB SSD and two 2TB HDDs was rocking 8TB of space. Plenty of room for all my Steam, Origin, Battle.net, GOG galaxy, Uplay, World of Tanks and Minecraft. On top of that I do video recording for future playback so I needed one of these 2TB drives just for FRAPS recording. So far I have had zero issue. I purchased this drive over one year ago and I play games every day. I wanted to give it plenty of time before I wrote a review on the product. What I did was open the case and remove the HDD and insert it into my laptop as an internal drive. You don't need any fancy tools or knowledge to install it. All the laptop drives are the same size so one size fits all. I can't give you specs on transfer speeds or write speeds. I don't even care about that stuff. I just play video games and enjoy the HDD for it's large storage room. If it matters here are my PC specs. MSI GT Series GT80 Titan i7 4720HQ (2.60GHz) 32 GB Memory two 2TB HDD's , 4TB SSD NVIDIA GeForce GTX 980M SLI 16 GB GDDR5 (yes that's two graphics cards) 18.4" Windows 8.1 64-Bit
5|This is a great back up drive and easy to use.
5|My second purchase of the a Seagate 2tb external had and I couldn't be anymore happier. My first Seagate was a black had and used for my family photos and videos on my pc. Simple plug in and plug out when connecting to my HP desktop. This blur Seagate I am using for my Xbox One, currently only for games and apps (as you cannot mix and match with pictures, music, games etc at least not at this time of writing) I hope they fix that soon, but that is a Microsoft issue and not Seagate. After going to the setting on my Xbox one and formatting the drive to erase all content and design it to be a solely a xb1 hdd. I was given the option to set this as my default install hdd or I can always manually copy from the internal over to the seagate. Good thing to mention that once you format and use the Seagate for the xb1, it can only be used on the xb1. You can't connect it to the pc and download files, or go to your x360, PS4 to add on. You have once again format the drive and use the Seagate solely for that particular source xb1, ps4, pc etc. I am very happy with my second purchase and I do see a slight increase in speed but nothing mind blowing...Cheers!
1|After about a week the product just completely stopped working. Light comes on but it does this weird sounding beeping at the beginning of boot up and then doesn't come up on my computer.
5|Easy to open up and put into my PS4. Recommended for easy 2TB hdd
5|does what it is suppose to do, the size is perfect, I mean small enough.
5|Love it
5|Though I'm excited by all the extra storage I've gotten, I'm in awe about how sleek, slim and unobtrusive the drive is.
5|Perfect buy for my Xbox one.
5|Using this for storage only, have not tested to see if I can install/run programs on though I am curious.
5|Works good. As expected. Small and backs up my computer fast. Recommended.
5|Nice colour, 2 TB is huge and its sleek. Just got what I wished for ! Thank you!
5|I have used these in the past, but I needed a larger capacity one to use to backup my laptop. I purchased two of these 1TB portable hard drives. Easy to use. I love them! They work just fine for my needs.
5|he flipped out!
5|Love this little drive. No power needed, hooks right up to USB wherever I go...
5|I'm using it for my ps4 and it works flawlessly for me.
5|This is your go to drive if you need more space on the PS4. I have had this drive installed in my PS4 since June 2015 and I have not had any problems with the drive yet. I recommend this drive to all of my PS4 friends and I haven't bought a couple of drives for them as well.
5|I already received it and working great. thank you Amazon.
4|works great. no problems.
5|It is a perfect small light portable external hard drive. The data transfer speed is also very good. I changed the format so I can use it (read and Write) with Mac OS x. It works very well on Mac. The formatting is also really easy and takes just a few steps. I love the blue color also.
5|I 'm really happy about my purchase , very fast shipment thanks YB
3|Not the greatest. We do a lot of very tough computing and use many large files in Linux. It connects fine in Linux. However, if you want to really back up a lot of large files, put a fan on it because it overheats. I have seen this before with other products. As a joke, maybe someone sells a USB powered fan and then you can blow on it. I had to switch computers and create new drives. It was easier to connect the old drives to the USB with a USB to Sata cable and it was actually faster and never failed. The Seagate 4TB will work, but don't let it get hot, because you will get read/write errors. Update: I don't believe this, there is a USB fan .. http://www.amazon.com/iMBAPrice-USB-MFAN-USB-Mini-Desktop/dp/B003FO0LG6/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1450038915&sr=8-1&keywords=usb+powered+fan
4|Works great, with room to grow
5|Bought this when we traveled with a laptop that doesn't have a CD/DVD burner. I used to travel with a laptop that has a CD/DVD burner, but that thing weighs 5 lbs! Now I have a smaller laptop with this external HD as my photo storage, so much easier. The laptop is a Lenovo Yoga running Windows 8, and the home computer is 2007 iMac with 10.6.8 OS. Syncs up no problem. I'd take my pictures, load them up to my laptop, then transfer them to this external HD. Then, at home I'd take the HD and hooks it up to my iMac, copies the folders over. That's it. Easy, no drama.
5|I like the color and its 1TB storage.
5|Excellent Product
5|Purchased this for my Mac AirBook Pro to use when I travel. I am a amateur photographer and I shoot many images while traveling. I always back up my images from my laptop hard drive each day when I offload them from the camera's memory cards. I would recommend this hard drive for travel use. I would also recommend you purchase a carrying case for the drive if you travel. This is the one I purchased; Drive Logic DL-64-RED Portable EVA Hard Drive Carrying Case Pouch. It works well with this drive.
3|After a month of use, my laptop quit seeing the partition. I had to format the drive again and set up the backup again as well.
5|First off, this hard drive is very compact for 1TB of storage and at a very decent price of $59.00 My only issue is, I'm using this drive for my Wii U and I didn't do my research before hand. Buy the USB Y cable so it can draw power from two ports at the same time or it will not work! I wish I would have read a review like this before I checked out, so I could add that cable to my cart at the same time!
5|Now I can carry my entire Collection of photos with me.Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage & Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (STDR1000103) - Red
5|Great product at a really, really great price. Performs flawlessly at what it is intended to do.
2|If you are a Mac user on El Capitan, and want an external drive you can just plug in and use, look elsewhere (as of 12-12-15). Seagate's driver download page brought me to a white browser screen. Once I found the current driver, it cost another $20. The drive looks great, and I'm happy to finally get around to backing up my system. It predicted 12 hours for 239gb, took about 7.
5|I have only used the Seagate External Hard drive for a few weeks, and so far I am very happy with it. I reconfigured it to work with my Mac Book Pro, which was easy to do under disk utility. The drive is not only fast, but also super stylish and pretty handy.
5|I swapped out the original PS4 hardrive and replaced it with this one and it worked perfectly. If you follow all the steps correctly this hardrive will work.
1|Tried to use it on a MAC since the information says it is MAC compatible. Could not get it to work and was referred to a telephone number in Asia. Returned the product.
5|A sturdy and strong hard drive. I use this for medical school, and it gets a beating in my bag. Blue accent in USB cord is a nice touch
3|The drive was working well but then crashed and some files got corrupted. Not reliable.
5|Great product for value.
2|I'm not exaggerating when I say that this somehow corrupted the Windows installations in two of my Lenovo laptops, in the same day. I don't know if it was due to something that occured while the connection was wired, but I noticed that at one point when I moved my laptop a few inches closer to the hard drive, the screen quickly distorted a little and then turned black and froze. I would doubt it normally but, it was as if there is some sort of magnet in this product?! I was not able to boot Windows properly after that as the installation was damaged, and I could not use any of the native recovery methods the laptops came with without crashing. I was able to get them running again after reinstalling Windows from an external USB boot media, but one of the laptops still is not working correctly now. Many programs and services aren't working and are giving errors, not a single game will load up on it. It's as if the internal hardware has somehow been damaged. I'm still trying to figure out exactly what happened, but I obviously am really regretting using this product for the reasons mentioned above. I suppose I'll give it two stars since I'm reasonable and haven't heard of anyone else experiencing this, and the actual storage technically seems to work, but at this point I'm too scared to put this thing near my laptops ever again.
5|Works as you'd expect from a hard drive and it doesn't require an additional power source other than USB. That's all I can ask for. I have this connected to a 3rd-generation AirPort Extreme via USB to serve as a Time Machine backup drive for multiple computers. A lot of people seem to think this is only possible with a 6th-generation AirPort Extreme, but it works with 3rd-gen and above, as far as I can see. Apple's documentation seems to be incorrect in this regard. Here are the steps to do so (as best as I remember): 1. Connect the drive to your computer directly 2. Format it in Disk Utility as Mac OS Extended, journaled, non-encrypted. (The encryption process comes later, if you want to do it.) 3. Add a partition for every computer you'd like to back up. Make sure they're all Mac OS Extended, journaled and NON-ENCRYPTED! 4. Eject the drive. 5. Connect the drive to the AirPort Extreme. 6. In the Finder (on the computer you wish to backup), locate your AirPort Extreme and double click the partition you want to use as a backup. 7. Navigate to the Time Machine preferences in System Preferences, and set up Time Machine with the partition you connected to in the Finder. This is where you can choose to use encryption, but you can only do so if your computer's internal hard drive is already encrypted (you can set this up in System Preferences > Security and Privacy > FileVault). This works amazingly well. My Macs connect to the Backup Plus regularly to do hourly backups over the network, automatically. When the Backup Plus isn't connected to, it goes to sleep. It wakes up with no problems at all when a computer needs to do a backup. I take my Macbook to school with me and when I get home and connect to the Wi-Fi network, the backups automatically begin immediately. It truly just works the way I want it to.
5|Great for wireless backups of my phone. Very easy
5|actually mini size, fast delivery, good!
5|Bought this for my ps4 and it work awesomely
5|This external hard drive was smaller than I expected, which is good! Easy to use.
5|Best
3|Bought it for my xbox one after reading reviews saying it works on there. Definitely doesn't work. Also my packing was all messed up and theres a scratch at the bottom, so will be returning this garbage.
5|Still my favorite portable USB HDD. So nice I bought it twice. I have copied movie collections from three deployments on top of my own, and for those who know how much that can actually be, you know it's a metric ass ton. No failures in three years and as many continents.
5|I bought two for mobile backups. They are silent and work very fast. Case quality is very good but needs a bit of rubber on the bottom for grip.
3|it is ok
5|Does what it says it does.
5|So handy. I take it on all work trips.
5|Small, sleek, quiet, and very fast! I just plugged it into my USB 3.0 port and started copying files over. No problems (so far). I plan to use this as a long term backup device (not for everyday use) so hopefully this will last me more than just a few years. I haven't used any of the software that's on the drive and I don't plan to, but left them just in case.
5|Exelente
5|love it
5|as advertised
2|the product is good but the i cloud storage is not true. I received a error message , contact seagate but no answer until now
1|I initially gave this harddrive a negative review because I couldn't access it after a couple of weeks. I tried dozens of recovery programs, but none of them were able to recognize that the drive even exists, let along recover any of my files. However, after having given it a poor review, I was contacted by Seagate and they have offered to recover my information for me. That was a nice gesture. However, I have so much personal stuff on there, including my passwords, bank accounts, etc. I told them I really don't want anyone I don't know recovering the information for me. They understood and have offered to replace my hard drive for me instead, which I think is a very decent gesture and shows that they care about their customers. I was notified yesterday that they have sent me a new harddrive. So, I am updating my review. I will hang on to the old harddrive and keep trying other recovery programs as I stumble on them on the net. Most likely some or all of that data is lost forever, but I can certainly hope. This is first of the many harddrives from Seagate that I have purchased over the years that have failed in such a short period of time (two weeks). I have one that is seven years old, and it still works. So, I'll consider this to be a fluke, and assume that it won't happen again.
5|Excellent product!!!!
4|Drive runs fast and cool. Dislike the "Proprietary USB" cable. It is a very stiff cable and connector that could snap off very easily. I find due to this I have to be extra cautious and careful using the drive due to the cable.
4|Wire to the USB constantly turns on and off makes things really complicated to save things from your computers hard drive when the memory device cuts off.
5|good
5|Stylish and light weight, Perfect!
5|Hard disk price is low as compare to other company. Its space is more and very fast speed and with gurranty
5|I've owned this for quite some time now and it is connected to my computer 24/7. It has also come with me on several trips overseas and still functions as well as the day I received it. Transfers large files via USB 3.0 at 120-150 MB/s, which is great considering it is both USB powered and extremely lightweight. Definitely a reliable and worthwhile drive assuming you need the space.
3|the backup software it do not work,how to backup!
5|So far so good. Love how small and light. Great purchase so far.
5|A must for backup of large files containing videos & music. Better be safe than sorry
5|Very good so far. Will buy again if needed. Works well for Mac (apple products) if that's something you're looking for.
5|works great!!!!!!
5|nice a compact but big storage.
5|Terrific portable disk. Small, faster and easy to carry on
5|Excellent Product!! Loved the color and size; Very fast in data transfer; Best Price deal offered!!
5|1 TB of portable space! It's such low power consumption that it can run off of a Raspberry Pi without a powered hub! Add a WiFi adapter to a Pi, and you've basically got portable wireless storage space for a smartphone. Very cool!
5|Great product. I'm very happy with it. Just backed up some files. Very fast!
5|Works great!
5|great product
4|After losing some valuable data when my hard drive on my laptop failed, I was looking for something small to occasionally back-up my laptop which holds my Family Tree research, document scans and photographs. Simple, compact, easy to use and 1 TB is more than enough space for my needs.
2|It doesn't work properly on Mac. It gets hot and makes noise.
5|a life saver for sure
5|Seagate never fails me and it is easy to connect and start moving files. I do not see any hiccups in setting up the hard drive with my computer. I have tried moving few small chunk of files and it was pretty much fast. I have not yet completely tested the gb size files moving across.
2|I accidentally dropped it, the height is not high, and here is the result
5|Great 1TB drive. I use it for backup storage of my data files. Holds a lot of data and small enough to use with out having to worry about bulkiness. Connected to my usb port and off we go for easy data storage backup.
2|Bought for my xbox one, as console storage was insufficient. It's an easy setup, just plug in and format, ready to use in 30 seconds. However, only 3.6TB of free space is available. This is ridiculous, that's 400gb's unaccounted for.
5|I set this up with my Xbox One to store large games (like the free game of the month deals) so I don't use up all of the space on my Xbox's hard drive. Unlike others have mentioned, I haven't noticed any speed increase. If anything, a slight decrease in responsiveness as it pulls the data from this hard drive, but nothing significant. The price is what really sold me on this drive though, as it's definitely the cheapest drive on here for the space you get. Plugging it into my Xbox One, it initially didn't show up. I did a restart of my console, and went through a number of troubleshooting steps, until finally I tried unplugging and plugging back in the hard drive. Then the Xbox One immediately recognized it and was able to format the drive to be used for the Xbox One. Everything has been great since. I'll update in the future with how well it holds up and performs.
5|The HDD is very reliable and the product worth its price. I am able to use it with a high speed USB connection, and the feature of Lyve is very good. Also, the 200Gb in OneDrive is a plus.
4|works as expected
3|i experienced some weird issues with this drive and i still cant tell what went wrong and whether its the drive's fault or mine. although considering this is not my only external drive and the rest work fine it seems to me like something is off with this drive. so here's what has happen: i received the drive and went straight on to backup my other 4tb drive with the new one. at first the drive seemed fine, no issues. it took 13 hours for the copy to finish. but then once i tried to access the files issues started. at first it worked really slow and had a hard time to read the files, then i couldn't read the files anymore and tried to reformat the drive, thought maybe something went wrong in the copying process, but no, windows couldn't format the drive and returned an error. i tried a disk check, but it behaved weird, i checked SMART data and it showed already over 380 bad sectors. and it kept going downhill, eventually i couldn't read any smart data anymore and every time i connected the drive to any computer the computer would freeze completly until i disconnected the drive. ok, i though i had a bad drive, that happens, i would just return it to amazon and get a new one. thanks to amazon and their great service i received and new drive very quickly. so i went to once again backup my other 4tb drive. and basically the same story with the 2nd drive. now all i did was to copy files, nothing that i would think would cause a drive to fail unless it is already faulty. so at that point i thought about sending it back for a refund thinking this model is just bad. but sending it back is time and money, and since i do need a drive i decided to try some advanced methods to revive it. the issue was that every time i connected it to a computer the computer would freeze, so it wasn't easy to work with. it would also make a sound like its trying to read over and over. so what i wanted to do 1st is to wipe (0 fill) the drive, for that i had to be very quick since there were only about 3 seconds until the computer would freeze. i used dd command under linux. it took 38 hours but in the end i could reinitialize the drive and reformat it. and so after all this the drive seems to work fine now. the only problem is that it has 8 reallocated sectors already. which shouldn't happen on a brand new drive but ill suck it up cause i'm tired of messing with it. what the issue was, i don't know, seagate should figure it out. maybe with the bad drive i sent back. oh and also, the 2nd drive i got has two bumps and the casing. its just cosmetics but still... now i can just hope that the drive will work fine for the next years to come. other then that, an actual review of the operation: i like it, its very small for a 4tb, the case is nice. it runes very cool and quite but it requires more power then my usual external hdd, not much more but enough to not work with my unpowered hub where my other drives work. my copy of mostly big files (so mostly sequential write here) showed a 60mb/s, which is fine by me. so to sum up, i don't think i can recommend this drive 100%. it seems like there are a few more reviewers with quite similar issues (also on other site's, new egg i think.) when this drive works its very nice, but there's seems to be an issue that i cannot put my finger on. also, don't take this review as a statement that you shouldn't buy seagate, i delt with many many hdd's and the failure rate for me over the years has been similar. this product has a good price and overall is a great offering and that is what you should think about when you shop for hdd. as long as you have at least 1 mirror copy it doesn't matter much which hdd you have.
4|Small and simple. But the cable is not standard
5|Using this with xbox one for the past 6 months. Works great
5|The hard drive was surprisingly smaller than I had anticipated. It fits really great in my hands and I do have smaller hands. Performance is good so far on both USB 3.0 and 2.0. I felt that given the price point, this was a great deal. I'm certainly pleased with the purchase.
5|This external hd works great! I am able to take it to school and carry it right in my backpack without any problems. I've only used it with a Mac so far, so I'm unsure how well it does with Windows.
5|Excellent
5|Very thin, lightweight, and transfer rate is fast. The cover matches the MacBook. Would recommend.
5|very good
5|Muy bueno
5|Perhaps one of the best things I`ve ever gotten. I don`t use the software, so it`s just an external hard drive for me. I have a ton of photos and documents that I just move onto it - everything moves over fast and smooth. Its small so it fit just about anywhere. It is of course slim, but its not skinny enough, or light enough, or flimsy enough that I feel like it would break easily so it feels sturdy - not willing to start dropping it just to test its breaking point. I`ve left it plugged into my laptop for a few hours while I was moving things over, it didn't get hot or anything - just warm. Will certain get another one when I`m in need of it!
5|excellent and reliable
5|Small, fast, quiet, runs cool (as cool as a 5400RPM drive can), fits in your coat pocket, and needs only its USB 3.0 cable for data and power. What more could you ask for in a 2TB drive? This little wonder replaced a 1TB 3.5" drive housed in an external enclosure that needed A/C power and had a fan that sounded like a 747 when I fired it up. What a difference!
5|Great item!
5|Super portable. Windows 10 didn't recognize the drive automatically but it's easy enough to go into diskmgmt.msc from a run command to format the drive.
5|Excellent hard drive! Onedrive 200 Gb extra is a perfect bonus!
5|Bought it for use as expansion on my xbox one and it has fully met expectations and hasn't had a single problem after months of heavy use.
5|Perfect!
5|This is the best we got. good good
5|Good choice
5|Very slim and portable. Fast enough to copy data. Love it
5|Happy for 200 Gb freeeeeee on One Drive
5|good product
4|As a portable hard drive and backup device, this Seagate works fine. But don't buy this particular drive for the PS4 because it won't fit the tray. It is too thick. I learned this the hard way.
4|This is a great little backup. I have an issue though - the connector cord doesn't really sit right. It easily slips a little out of place and is "ejected improperly" for my computer. Not sure who I can get in touch with, that's the only issue I have with it so far. FYI for Mac users, you have to erase the drive via disk utility before you can use it to backup your system.
5|This backup drive is awesome. So much space for all my files! It is perfect and exactly what I needed. I like that the drive itself is pretty small and slender. I also really like the color.
5|Amazon Basics has done it again. After purchasing their AmazonBasics Universal Travel Case for Small Electronics and Accessories -Black a year ago, I knew their Basics Collection for cases are good. This one did not disappoint. This case has the similar build and same quality as their Travel case and their travel case has received stellar reviews. This one fits my Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage & Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (STDR1000103) - Red perfectly, with a little room to spare. It can fit two of these hard drives perfectly (one on each side) if you like. I use one side to fit the USB cable and other charging cables. Love it!
5|Good Quality!!!
5|Love this gadget, would definitely recommend!
5|Good to use. It's small enough in size. Good quality.
5|Good
3|I bought the 8TB personal cloud first. It's too slow to backup (i have 50MB pan from Time Warner Cable). So I returned it. I then bought this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External and found it uses the same software - Seagate Dashboard. The problem is that they add too many subfolder layers. Below is the path. E:\Seagate Dashboard 2.0\***-PC\***\Backup\ab2912a4-cd67-4131-80a7-756465780a83\20151202_133038_***\C\Users\***\Dropbox\Camera Uploads\ Here is how they added: 1, E:\Seagate Dashboard 2.0\ 2, ***-PC\ 3, ***\ 4. Backup\ 5, ab2912a4-cd67-4131-80a7-756465780a83\ 6, 20151202_133038_***\ 7, C\Users\***\Dropbox\Camera Uploads\ The subfolders 1 to 6 are what they added. Why they need so many??? You have to click many time in order to find what you backed up. Another issue is that after the initial backup using Seagate Dashboard, it creates many increments. Although this may help to track all changes, it makes it very difficult to find the final version of an updated file. You can keep the backup increments but shall sync the final version to original folder, or at least has an option to do it. Don't understand why the this backup software is so STUPID!!!!!!!!
5|For years I used to buy Western Digital Passport products. These all failed with the USB connector. Still usable but the cable had to be strapped. The Seagate appears to be a much better design and not prone to these problems.
5|This drive has been chugging away, buried deep in a datacenter in Las Vegas for months backing up our server nightly. I don't give it a second thought because it just works.
5|Works great with the XB1. It has reduced load times (witcher 3, GTA) by about 11% from the 500mb hard drive my system came with. Easy to set up, no external power. Just plugged it in to the XB1, clicked yes to format, and installed RB6: Seige. Done.
5|Enough space to put all the photos you want. Works great for macbook! can't wait to fill it up with photos and video memories!
4|This is for: Seagate 4TB Portable Ext'l HD (4.5star) Pros: - Small - Slim & light - Matte finish (dark gray on top & black color base) - USB 3...fast. Fast Fast Fast. - Different capacity to choose from (1TB - 4TB) - Few color case selection for 1-2TB - Very competitive price (less than one hundred thirty) Note: Made in Thailand (product of China) Cons: - the USB cable is a bit short
5|Placed in PS4 put PS4 stock drive in here. Great product no troubles
5|Works great. Using it as an external drive for Xbox one, Fast shipping.
5|I used this for My Xbox One to expand the storage. Easy setup with small form factor. cheaper than the Xbox version but works all the same.
5|Great device!.. So far everything is working flawlessly. It's very slim and portable. USB 3.0 works great. I'm very satisfied with my purchase.
5|Works as expected so far.
5|Clean design with promised features
5|Does the job. No complaints very happy
5|Great drive, fast and quiet. I removed all seagate software (but I did save it, just in case). I have it set up as a automatic backup drive for win10.
5|This device has worked flawlessly and works great for the XBox One system. Simply plug into XBox USB port and the external drive takes care of the installation. I would recommend and buy again. Thank you.... Keda Dyes Inc
5|Fast and slim that's all
5|Great, just what i needed
4|Work's with the Xbox one give it 1.8TB (feels nice to)
4|Slim and light. Good product.
5|Great
5|great
5|Very good back up drive. Portable. Store it in safe to protect your pictures and documents.
4|Got to love Seagate.
5|Excellent product! I use this external hard drive to store all of my movies on it as well as a backup for my computer. Runs flawless and is perfect for what I use it for.
5|Fast shipment, awesome quality, thank you!
5|I bought this for my PlayStation 4 not knowing if it would work and thankfully it did! It was a purchase well worth it and I recommend it to any other customers who are looking to replace their PS4 hard drives.
5|i bought this for extra space for my xbox one it works pefectly fine i have had not trouble
1|Lights are on but no one is home. Windows 7 knows its there because it shows up in the device manager but it doesn't show up in the file system. Properties of the drive claim it is working. Dashboard program's hardware checker says it works. Dashboard registered it after getting the serial number from it. When you try to do a backup it asks you to plug in a device to connect to. I guess this means that it doesn't "mount". I'm returning it but not to seagate because the reviews are clear that Seagate has many additional costs besides the fact that the drives are shipped not working. The support page at seagate offers no support except how to return it, no word on this problem. Update: Returned it to costco. I was contemplating getting another one but didn't have time. I plugged in my old Toshiba Passport 500gb which was giving me problems sometime ago and the reason I needed a new drive. Well I think the cord was the problem with that one because the Toshiba powers up now.. Anyhow The Passport had a similar problem not showing up in windows explorer. SOLUTION: Startmenu:Right Click on Computer: select Manage computer; A program starts with a disk management option. Plug in your drive and it will appear, Right click on the box that represents the drive that doesn't show up and select something like change or add path. Assign your new drive a path letter like S: If it has the same drive name as C: you will have problems seeing it in Windows explorer. If it shows up in all the other places but not window explorer this is your fix. Hope I saved you the hassle of the Seagate Support site. Still one star because if this was the problem Seagate should know how to fix it. And a lot faster and easier that what I had to do.
5|It's a great size. I love that I can just throw it in with my laptop when I travel.
5|Excellent as all product from Seagate that I have. I'm very satisfied! It was a very good deal with 2 years of Onedrive. Loved it!
4|Can be used/ formatted as External storage of Xbox One games, easy to setup with plenty of future storage for installed games. Purchased originally for my PS4 as a replacement internal drive for the 500GB drive, but found out that the 4TB drive even though a 2.5 drive is too thick in height to fit into the drive bay, plus Sony does not yet support hard drives natively over 2TB without issues on the PS4. Maybe Sony will do like Xbox One and do a system update in the future to support larger HDD than 2TB. The only Option presently is a Nyko 3.5 HDD adapater that will support up to 6TB drives (Warning PS4 only supports 2TB drives), but expect issues when trying to run disc games, will run DL games with no issues. So the end results is I used the 4TB hard drive for the Xbox One as additional game storage :), and purchased the Seagate 2TB Plus HDD 2.5 to replace the one in the PS4 which Sony presently supports.
4|My only gripes are that it's recognized as 1.8 TB (though a very common ploy of HD manufacturers) and the USB cable is proprietary, which means a replacement will have to be bought if the included cord is lost or damaged. Even with these small issues I think it's a great purchase for the price. Very much worth what I paid and I'm glad I made the purchase.
5|GOOD, VERY THIN.
5|Got a great deal on this and holds most of the movies in my collection with USB 3.0 There are very few pauses in data transfer,
4|Not bad just wish it had a system that works to back up in an intelligent way updated and new files the system that comes with it for back up never worked in my computer. Other than that great external drive works with Mac and windows.
5|I did a substantial amount of research before buying this portable hard drive and I am very happy with my choice. The 1TB capacity offers plenty of storage space, the case looks nice, the price was great, and it is 'portable' which means that it is powered by the device it is connected to (and not a power cord plugged into the wall).
5|It's good
5|Compact and easy to setup.
5|This is a great, small little external drive. I have an older 1 TB one that is a bit larger. I needed more room for backups though - and also wanted to have two drives in case of failure of one of them.
4|I work at a production company as a video editor and have probably ordered 75+ of these (the 4TB fast) in the past year. They have crazy speeds thanks to the dual 2.5 inch drives being RAIDed together (at least, crazy for a USB3 drive that's not SSD). As with any drive, these will fail sometimes. We have everything backed up twice at our office so that hasn't been a problem. Sometimes I've found that using the dual-USB connector has a better connection, if you're getting a lot of chirping or whistling sounds try using the dual connector instead. And overall, it's a great drive for the price, as well. Would highly recommend using this drive as you would with any other: by backing up EVERYTHING. (I've also used the 2TB and loved it so far, definitely not as fast, though).
5|Worked when when I used it as an external drive. I have since turned this external into an internal drive. Just used an old credit card and popped the case open. It's held with little tiny clips. Once the top is off, just peel back the silver tape inside it and unplug the SATA to USB connector. Easy. I now have another 2TB hard drive inside the PC I just built.
5|great for backup
4|Good product! I'm satisfied...
5|Has worked perfectly for me. Excellent value.
4|The first one I purchased did not work. I was sent a replacement and sent the other one back. It seems to be working fine and doing what is is supposed to do.
5|Great product, great deal. Have always used Seagate external hard drives in the past. This one is a memory upgrade.
5|I purchased this item to expand the storage capabilities of my Xbox One. Very satisfied and fast. Just plug it in on the Xbox One USB port, and a few seconds later it is automatically prepared and ready to go. Great value and quality
5|We had a Black and Decker dust buster years ago. I thought I would Never buy a similar product. This one is awesome! I use it for so many things. In the corners of rooms and just picking up small things spilled. Dog hair. Crumbs. It's all good. It is loud. But who cares? Don't know the total life of the battery but let's face it. It's only for about 15 minutes or less of use. Love the recharge.
3|Speed is bit slow
4|Excellent backup drive. Just what I needed for laptops.
5|good product - good price
5|As described. working well.
1|This will not work with Windows 10 or I phones. They do not specify this in description. I purchased a 2 tb and 1 tb and will be returning both.
5|Just Love these
5|great drive, this is my second Seagate Slim drive, and I love them. It is light, stylish and well priced.
5|Got it for my grand daughter. She loves it!
5|Great
5|Arrived promptly has worked out just as we needed
5|I bought this as a gift and it is well worth it's money. It's a good quality hard drive with a lot of storage. Beautiful color, easy to use and very compact for easy storage. This is an excellent product with quality showing through.
5|Love
5|Tons of reasonably fast storage in a highly portable package at a terrific price. What's not to love?
5|good
5|Purchased the 2TB version of this drive (cheaper than bare drive) and put in my PS4, just like many others have reviewed here. Works perfectly! Took the hold PS4 hard drive and placed it back in this case and use it for miscellaneous storage now.
5|Perfect transaction! Perfect product! Thank you!
1|It's fine when it works, but don't even try to take advantage of the warranty if it fails. You have to return the drive at your own expense in order to get a replacement, but your drive must be packaged according to very exact instructions virtually impossible to comply with. There is no guarantee that the hard drive will be completely erased so you are basically sending all your secure data back to Seagate personnel. If you are lucky, you might get a replacement, but it will be a repaired drive, not a new one. I gave up trying to return my defective Seagate and, instead, I just ordered an external drive from another company. No more Seagates for me.
5|Excelent HDD, more Slim than I tought.
2|Kind of annoying product. I bought this assuming it was just a regular ol' hard drive. It is. But instead of just being able to drag and drop right off, you have to set up the hard disk with some garbage that you have to download from their website. I suspect there is some sort of licensing crap in there that allows them to legally keep or access your files. But hey! They offer something like a "free" 200gb of additional storage for doing that. Anyway... if you don't like that and happen to have a programmer or computer geek ready, you can actually get around it. But if you don't know of someone that can help with that, I would recommend looking at other hard drives. It's so ridiculous that they want you to do all sorts of crap for them to steal your data.
4|Works as expected - Nothing really to report here that wouldn't be expected.
4|Good deal
5|Love it!! Great way to transport tons of pictures & files! I bought a case for mine, but the actual backup isn't much bigger than my cell phone.
4|I purchased this item to be use with my Mac as the reviews said that was possible. At first I encountered some difficulty as this disk is pre formatted for Windows. However, it is possible! If you are only using this external hard drive to drag and drop files/documents etc, all you need is to download Paragon Driver (that will be provided upon initial installation of the drive). However, if you are like me and intend to use the drive with Time Machine, you need to reformat the drive to be used with Mac. I couldn't figure it out on my own so I called Seagate tech support and they helped me reformat the drive to OS X extended (journaled). When in doubt, ask for help. It just took 20 minutes.
5|Compact HD, smaller than my cell phone. Happy with my purchase.
5|Not much to say, really. It is a portable drive and it has worked just as one would expect. I've had no problems thus far!
4|Its really heavy but very compact. I expected that i will get nearly 3.9 tb but I end up with 3.63 tb. Yes i tried in almost 7 different range of computers but still the same.
5|Like it
5|Great drive that works well with a 2015 Macbook 12in Retina laptop and the USB-C adapter, meaning it has enough power to connect and mount in disk mode mode. No issues to report and drive works well with TimeMachine. Speed is good and is compact size.
2|Slow. Really slow :(
5|Serves it purpose.
5|I have both the 'fast' and regular versions of the 4TB model. Great drives. Bus powered on my MacBook Pro and easy to carry around. I am a professional photographer so these make it easy to have multiple backups on the go. Note: these should *not* be used stand alone without other backups. The way the two drives are stripped is great for speed, but *guarantees* data loss if something happens to one of the drives. These are great for fast secondary, tertiary+ backups.
5|Great bang for the buck!
5|Cheaper than I thought it would be, used it to upgrade PS4 hard drive, love the room and the carefreeness I can be about installs. Get this. Easy to do if you know what you are doing.
5|very useful product to backup my data
5|Very portable, easy to use, haven't had an issues with it. Great for the value!
3|I'm not sure what to say. The instructions are horrible. I have absolutely no idea how to transfer my Mac files onto this external drive. I like the idea of it. The "how to" videos are worthless. I'm left with a product I've been given no instructions to set-up and use.
5|Love this seagate... not like Toshiba...drop them and you have lost all what is on the hard drive... Seagate...you won't at I have not.....
5|good
5|Needed more space for games and data on my Xbox One. This worked perfectly. Plugged in, option to format, then immediately available for storage. Great purchase!
5|Excellent drive. Works with my ibm PC's up to USB 2. This drive did not work with my older computers using plain Jane USB (before they rated them more than just USB). The older computers don't have enough power through the USB for these very large drives. My Mac book was able to read the drive, but could not write to it, forcing it to write (Jiggling the USB connection) was a mistake, I don't recommend jiggling USB connectors.
5|HIghly recommend external drive this will also back up your Iphone or Android
1|Highly disappointed. This product simply will not backup with Time Machine on Mac, but worse is Seagate's customer service. I followed the prompts and filled out a service ticket and simply never heard back from them after two weeks. I then called them and spent almost an hour with a technical service representative who was nice, and tried, but was ultimately unable to help. I later received an inquiry from Seagate to determine whether I was satisfied with its product and promising that "we read all of your comments". I then described the above problems, but still have not been contacted by them, only Amazon seems to care. Months have passed. It gets one, instead of zero, stars because it appears that I can manually move files onto this drive.
5|Awesome!!! I love it and i could start having all my pictures in 1 place :) works great
5|small size, big storage size, at a great price
3|I trust Seagate and WD. Powers down a lot. Quite annoying.
5|good
5|good
5|I have 2 of these- one I use to install and play my Steam games off of, and one I used to replace the stock 500gb drive in my PS4 (in which case you have to pry the drive open to get it out and put it in the PS4, which isn't too hard but does void the Seagate's warranty). So far it has worked great for both of my uses, with no issues. I like that it has an aluminum top, which helps dissipate heat much better than plastic (most drives of this type are all plastic). It also has a 2 year warranty whereas most drives of this type only give you one year. It is also rated as one of the fastest portable external drives in all the reviews I read. So I'm pleased with them so far.
5|Worked amazingly for PS4. Highly recommend taking the cover off with your nails, not using a tool like some sites recommend. It can be taken off in literally 3 seconds, this was the easiest upgrade ever. Super simple.
3|This DOES NOT work with PS4!!!!! I bought this for extra games storage. Maybe theres a way but i havent figured it out.
5|Seagate is the brand for me. Its simply reliable. I owned several other brands in the past: Toshiba, western digital, hitachi but Seagate by far is the best of all. The worse thing it can happened to you is having one drive failing on you, and that happened to me with toshiba, wd and hitachi. I lost music, movies and the most valuable of all the data...pictures. I bought this exact model 1 year ago...and its working as the first day. Also in the worse case scenarie the HDD comes with 2 year of warranty (which is 1 year more than most of the other brands) This drive is insanely small and thin, I can put it on my shirt pocket without adding any bulk to it. USB 3.0 offers you lightning speed to transfer anything, so if you're making a backup and the ETA is displayed in hours, forget about that, it won't be happening again with this baby. The design is awesome, it has an aluminum body thats gives you that sense of good quality/build. This drive includes an special offer that provide you with 200Gb of storage in OneDrive, which is nice mainly because these days you may find running out of space on your smartphone. Just keep in mind that there is a limit to redeem the offer (mid 2017) The only thing I personally would like to have...is a carrying bag. Unfortunately this HDD does not come with anything to travel, unlike other brands. So if you're looking for a reliable HDD, give this drive a shot...I'm pretty sure you won't regret.
1|Quit working after being back up drive for my MacBook Pro for 10 months. Now its a beautiful red paperweight! Won't buy Seagate again.
1|WORTHLESS----FOUND OUT NOTHING WAS BEING BACKED UP WHEN I TOOK IT TO APPLE STORE----FORTUNATELY RECEIVED REFUND AS IT WAS UNDER WARRANTY
5|Fast transfer times via usb 3.0. Practically free of bloatware unlike other brands. The only software loaded onto the disk was seagate's setup utility which basically just connects you to their website and register the product, There are some disk management software (seagate dashboard) you can download when you register the disk provided by seagate. You are also given a 2 year 200 gb free cloud storage by OneDrive by Microsoft. It is small and light. Measurements available in product description. Also comes with a usb cable. I do not use seagate's dashboard but simply use file explorer to manage my drives. Seagate's dashboard provides you with a more friendly graphical user interface to copy, move, backup or whatever way you want to sort your data, No negatives at all whatsoever. Afterall, it's seagate and they've been making drives for decades.
5|Amazing
5|Good
5|great value for a 4TB portable ext. harddrive. Just started using the drive so can't comment on long term use but so far so good.
5|Got this one for my papa as a gift this coming Christmas and I am sure that he is gonna love it because it's 2 TB storage allowed me to fill it with his favorite classic movies and concerts.
5|Great item, highly recommend.
5|Arrived quickly in good shape, installed immediately, clear instructions, connected via the usb 3.0 port, quickly backed up 900 GB of critical data, and had no problems. Well done Seagate & Amazon [as usual]. By the way, I have my own "cloud[s]".
5|After years of owning WD drives... I finally switched over to Seagate. None too soon as my WD passport crapped out after 4 years of light use. This is the best yet, slightly slower r/w speeds... but so far most reliable. Knock on wood.
5|Turning it into a PS4 harddrive and using the stock ps4 one as the external hard drive was so easy, just YouTube it. I'm writing this one year after purchasing and I can tell you I've had no problems with it. In fact I don't get as many application errors as I used to with the hard drive that came with the ps4. And now I have a nice little 500 gb external hard drive (the original ps4 one) and plenty of memory on my ps4 :D would recommend to everyone.
1|Item seemed to work fine as I reluctantly downloaded all of my college work, personally created music & photos; however, the item recently failed to be recognized by any PC which it was connected to. Purchased an additional cable after reading several blogs with customers having the same issues, yet light still only blinks. This item was used less than five (5) times total, before it failed. There are no words to describe the feeling of having possibly lost information that I worked incredibly hard at creating. Considering the amount of times this device was used, and the time since it was purchased before it failed, I have no choice but to issue a one (1) star rating. Note: As one can see, the items has been very well taken care of (see attached).
4|Talk about small but useful? This is about as good as I think it could get. Plan on converting all the wife's VHS movie collection to download format to store on this drive to save on weight and space in our New Travel Trailer. If this works as I hope, it will have saved over 12 cubic feet of space and about 120 plus pounds in handling the tapes; not to mention not needing the VCR/VHS to playback any longer. This and Dish Anywhere Service together with streaming services should be able to take care of any Movie/TV series entertainment needs we may think we want to address.
5|Great external hard drive. Bought for my Xbox1 it formatted it in no time and i havent had any problems since.
5|No problems here. My first Seagate was dropped and stopped working, so this is an upgrade and replacement. It does exactly what it says it will and I've never lost a piece of data using it. I love the compact size and the ease of carrying it along with the laptop. The interface is intuitive and easy to use. I would recommend it for a home office as a small, effect data storage and backup system.
1|This nice backup drive stop working excatly 2 days after I can return it to Amazon. I contacted Seagate for the "2 year warrantu" and I was told by the customer service that becuase I purchased from Amazon I don't have the same warranty. DO NOT BUY!!!!
5|Purchased for PS4. Worked perfectly. Took me about 10 minutes using this guide - https://imgur.com/a/JF5jA One word of caution, if you are looking to do this on the PS4, make sure your PS4 can read USBs. My friend bought the same one and when we went to back up his PS4, it would not read any USB's, including the same USB that I used to do my backups only a few hours earlier. Reformatting to FAT32, eXFAT, etc did nothing. So make sure your PS4 can read a USB before you spend the money on the HDD. But once you know you are good to go, this is the way to go.
1|I bought it. loaded it up with all my files. Two weeks later, I suddenly could not access it anymore. Whenever I plugged it in, it said that it was fine and ready to go. But it didn't show up in any of my harddrives. I tried more than a dozen recovery programs to get the files off the drive, but NONE of them would recognize it. I see this is offered cheap all over the place. Why? Because it's crap. Save your money.
5|Great drive. I have 5 Seagate drives over several years. Works on my mac, and if I have to connect it to a PC as well.
5|My son is a senior programming engineer and he recommended this for my external backup drive on my Apple Computer. It is very lightweight and we were able to set it up with a divider so I can back both my desktop and MacBook Pro laptop on the same backup drive. It's a small and attractive addition. My previous drive was clunky by comparison.
5|Very handy and portable..
5|Great drive. I've had two of these for a year now. Each one used to extend the storage of Xbox One consoles. They work really well as extra Xbox One space, the console recognized it right away and started using it. Since then, they've endured hundreds of hours of Xbox One gameplay. I noticed today after playing Fallout 4 from it for several hours it was slightly warm but still chugging along no problem. Its sitting behind the console in our entertainment stand, it doesnt have the best ventilation but even with the console blowing heat in there it still runs great. A glitchy game like Fallout 4 has never froze, or crashed while running from the drives. I liked them so much I just ordered another one for more storage on our server. It will replace an old 320gb Seagate external drive that has been running for the last 7 years with no issues. I used to prefer Western Digital, but Seagate has really proven to make some durable hard drives. With so many positive reviews on here its safe to say you're likely to have a good experience. All hard drives are prone to failure, moving parts, heat and many other factors will contribute to their death. Its easy to hate a company immediately once you lose your data, its not the drive manufacturer's fault you lost your data. They may have made a faulty drive, but you didn't protect your data with redundancies. If your files are truly important you'll buy two of these drives to double up on your back ups, or maybe even better, put them in the cloud to protect against fire loss. I've learned the hard way and lost memories I can't get back now. Thats why our master closest is literally 1/3 server cluster with hard drives..and drives backing them up.
5|very good
1|An external hard drive isn't useful if it stops working. Ours was never dropped, and kept in a secure location where no physical problems could have damaged it and now it doesn't work. The device when plugged in just emits a beeping sound and isn't recognized by any computer. Also the customer service for Seagate is non-existent.
5|Excellent portable drive for the price, very very small and quick with the 3.0 usb connection.
1|Fails at writing and disconnects. Waiting on replacement 12/4/15 replacement arrived. The new hard drive cannot write large files >1gig. transfers to about 500mb then freezes unmounts and I receive an error message. This is not user error I have many external hard drives that utilize the same usb 3.0 port and work flawlessly. I have never owned such a finicky hard drive. I will be returning this and never buying a Seagate product again.
5|Just as described!
5|Nice
2|Bought it for 200, a bit expensive. I got this because I desperately need something more than 2T. Have reading failure couple of times, replugged and it's okay, no data loss yet (just 2 months in). Update: just lost some data, about 5 months in, regret buying this.
5|Very nice
5|Awesome deal for my PS4 HDD, really easy to install and very fast to upgrade.
5|Fantastic hard external hard drive for my Xbox one and my laptop. I would recommend this product for anyone who needs a great external hard drive for the perfect price.
5|Great Hdd
5|I love this drive! works like a charm with my Surface Pro3, plugged it in was instantly recognized by windows 10. Quiet operation and does not generate a lot of heat. Cannot go wrong with a Seagate Drive. Seems to read and write quite fast.
5|I am amazed at the transfer speeds for an external drive. It's easily as fast as my internal sata III drives, yet is small, light, durable, and portable. I've had it and used it for over a year now, after my 3-year-old knocked it off tumbling down a sequence of hard surfaces, and it was completely un-fazed- no data loss or corruption, no decrease in access speads with continued use. Count me in as a very satisfied customer.
5|Very stable and reliable mobile Hard-Drive.
1|Doesn't work, I received an error message every time I tried to backup my computer
5|Very compact and metal finish is just amazing. Speed also is so far so good. Will update in case of any issues.
1|SLOW
5|Convenient and, so far, reliable (using only few weeks). I moved all my videos, photos, and other room consuming files but it's still a lot of room left.
4|nice slim backup hard drive.
5|Easy to use, sleek and light!
5|Great price, great back up for information.
5|Thank you
5|The product was easy to set up and I have not run into any issues with it. I have it connected to my router for network storage. Good product and was worth the price.
5|Excellent product perfectly thin for its capacity. It works great for my backup of my Macbook Air for Time Machine.
5|Slim and elegant, Perfect for daily use. Satisfied :)
5|so far so good, better than the hp which i had major problems with
5|excellent fast drive. roomy, quiet and quality seems quite good so far.
1|Dead on arrival. I just moved overseas and can't even return it. When I plug it in, I just hear a constant subtle beeping sound. Wasted $180 on this one.
5|Works great and its fast as well.
3|The main purpose I bought this hard disk for was not served. I wanted to take mobile backups, but the Seagate Dashboard app is not working correctly. It keeps disconnecting which is very frustrating. I could have bought a 3tb or 4 tb of external hard disk for the same price without this feature. Disappointed with this mobile backup feature but the hard disk works fine.
1|Bought the drive in June. Now it's dead! Return it to Amazon or Seagate?
5|Working.
5|I love it, excellent product
5|Excellent product! Extremely fast Read and Write speeds! Plays well with OS X. Also it is small, portable, and easy to carry!
5|great item
4|Do not buy this if you have a Mac, because you have to reformat it, which is a pain (have to go to Seagate website for instructions).
1|Bought the drive and didn't need to use it until the boot partition on my 1TB internal HDD in my PC got messed up. So I finally got the Seagate Backup Plus out to do its job and back up my data before I did anything drastic to my PC. Worked fine for all of 2 days while (extremely slowly over USB2.0) copying the contents of the drive over to the backup, only for it to fail about 3/4ths of the way through and now failing to mount or be recognized by any of my computers when I plug it in. Terrible drive and a waste of my money.
5|So far so good...
4|Compact size and storage capacity great for portability with tablet and laptops
5|Sleek design, lots of storage space, easy hook-up, fast transfer. So glad I got this. :)
5|It seems to do the job
5|Great!!0
5|Great drive for backups and very easy software to use. A great buy at the price.
3|Update: After having the drive for a few weeks, I'm giving up and returning it. Out of 12 PCs I work with regularly, only 2 consistently worked well with this drive. 10 of them would fail to read or transfers would fail often that making using this drive became a risk/unreliable. Possibly a lemon Original review: This drive is amazing - 4tb in about the space of my previous 1tb external drive, as well as being inexpensive for what you're getting. The price dropped 10.00 two days after I bought it, too, har har Amazon The only issue I had was starting computers up with the drive plugged in. There is a little bit about this issue if you Google, but nothing that really helped me. Here is an outline of what I discovered, I hope this helps. When I first got the drive, I immediately formatted it to exFat, since I intended it to be used with both PCs and Macs. The reasons for and against doing this: - PRO: exFat lets you read/write on both without doing anything special (OS X won't write to NTFS drives without 3rd party intervention) - CON: Windows's built in Backup and Restore won't backup a system image to exFat without some tricks I found I couldn't boot two of my PCs while the drive was plugged in, except randomly on one of them (see below). On one, the PC stops at the BIOS splash screen before even getting to the point where you can press keys to get into the BIOS. After letting it sit for an hour, I had to power it down (keyboard unresponsive, so no ctrl+alt+del). Without the drive plugged in, the computer boots as normal. Once into Windows, I could plug in the drive and use it fine. On the other PC, it does one of two things randomly: It will let you get into the BIOS, but won't detect any other drives (internal or external) after this point, so won't boot; or it will detect other drives and boot, but all other USB devices (keyboard, mouse, wifi adapter) will be disabled while the drive is plugged in. Once Windows was up, if I unplugged the drive, my other USB devices came back. This was with the various USB devices plugged into ports all around my PC - wifi in the front, keyboard/mouse dongle in a USB 2 port on the back, the Seagate in its own USB 3 port on the back, etc. Suspecting some kind of power draw issue, I tried plugging the drive into a separate, powered USB 3 hub, with no effect. After some searching, I examined my UEFI settings in the BIOSes of both machines, but they were already set as the forum posts I found suggested. "Solution" (found by accident): After giving up, I intended to return it to Amazon. I had put some data on it, so I plugged it back into one PC and proceeded to do a full (not quick) format, using NTFS. Some time after this completed, I needed to restart the computer for something else, and rebooted it, forgetting the Seagate was still plugged in. It booted fine. Wondering what was going on, I tried it in the other PC as well, and this one also booted. I quick formatted back to exFat, and both PCs reacted as before - without booting or acting crazy. Quick formatted back to NTFS, and no issue. >>> I don't have any explanation for the above behavior, but that is the symptom and what resolved it. <<< For me, this isn't much of a resolution, since I really wanted to use exFat on it given the drive will be floating around between platforms. I'm still on the fence about whether to return it, but I left 4 stars since it mostly does what it is supposed to, has a ton of space, and a good price.
4|i like it.
5|Works pretty well, and fast transferring large amount of data.
4|Very Good
5|can't believe that they can do this now, extremely portable, before i use those large bricks 4 TB HDD
3|This hard drive has given me more headaches than anything. I use my external hard drive on a daily basis which means I disconnect and take it with me everyday to work. I've owned this particular hard drive for 4 months now and after about 1 month it started becoming unreliable in that the cord was very loose when fitting into the hard drive and therefore could not get a good read on the drive. It has now gotten to the point where it will work only about 80% of the time (even after restarting, trying to plug it into different usb ports, etc.). Very frustrating and I will probably not be purchasing anymore Seagate products.
5|What I wanted., small, USB powered and large capacity.
5|Highly recommended wonderful value for an investment,
5|Awesome!!!
1|Fresh out of the box, copied a large number of photos and videos over to the drive, and all was well. The next day, I plug it in, and my computer won't mount the drive. Contacting Seagate, they said that the files might be able to be retrieved via DIY software they then sent me. Only catch is, to actually retrieve said files, I have to pay a $99 fee. Scam artists. Never buying another Seagate product again.
5|The drive doesn't have a standard usb connection. It comes with the necessary cable, but you won't be swapping it with existing usb /micro usb cords. The drive itself is fast for a non ssd.
5|Slim. Nice silver material. Works great with Macbook.
5|Great product, works as advertised. 200gb of OneDrive storage is an excellent product.
3|I am not sure its always working
5|Bought this for my 2011 Macbook air. I partitioned 500GB for Mac only (for backups) and the rest for WIndows/Mac. Worked easy! Seems fast and well built. If anything, it's so small that I'm afraid to drop it. I mean, it's very, very small (which is a god thing!). Hope it lasts! If I have any issues, I will update1
5|Works great, perfect for travel.
5|The read and write speeds are fast like advertised
5|Good
5|Fast and quiet. Love the storage space.
5|super worth value
5|Perfect product for upgrading my PS4 HDD, working perfectly!
5|Great product works as advrertised
5|No problems whatsoever. Recommend buying that case that's always paired with it. Handy if you ever need to travel with it, even once.
5|Have used it now for a short time but so far so good. Nice appearance and size. Seagate offers many services, some are free- beyond what I need but they're available if you want them. Will check back if something goes wrong.
5|Works well. We use it with an xbox one.
5|Tiny size, enormous storage!
5|As other reviewers did, I bought this, pried it open (that was scarier than I had anticipated), and took out the hard drive to use in my laptop. It was way cheaper than a bare drive of the same storage size, plus I now have an empty USB3.0 2.5" external HDD case if I ever need one!
1|Very Slow drive, runs at USB 2.0 speeds. Very disappointing. Returning
5|Exactly what I wanted!
5|It's only been a couple of months, but after reformatting the drive to work with both my Mac and PC, it delivers fine performance. I also got a sleeve especially made to protect that is like a rubber bumper. It makes me feel more secure about using it.
2|Got it to finally work with my mac after a having to do some setup work in my disk utilities and going to the website to set up the drive to work with the mac. If you're using it for a mac, it's not just a easy plug and play drive.
5|magnificent
5|So this is my 4th Seagate HD that I have for my Macbook Pro. 1 for my Timemachine, 1 for pictures, 1 for music, 1 for video. the all work great together and so far after 5 years of this system I have yet to have a single failure. They are small, portable and now have USB 3 which is much faster than the other USB 2 HDs. One of these days we are going to be able to upgrade to SSDs and reviews will not mean anything it will just work and never give up.
2|Not working they way we expected. Crashes a lot. Takes a long time to down load. Disappointed.
4|Pretty straight forward, i bought it for the purpose of upgrading playstation hard drive. Install was quick and easy.
5|Excellent product! Well worth the price. Pros: -Super slim, basically fits into your pocket -Great price! -Very fast- you would think that the external would take time to read things for the size it is, but it really doesn't. It does it flawlessly. Cons: -I guess it could be a little bit quieter, although its much more calm and noticeable than the other external harddrives i owned Overall, id say this is one of the best externals ive used. Ive always loved seagate's products for their portability, price, and ease of use and this product was no different. Go for it!
5|Really happy with this portable external hd. Very lightweight and portable.
5|I Just Purchased Pioneer Nex 8100 and wanted 2 of these for the USB outputs (one for music and one for movies) I was so happy on how small they were as you can mount them anywhere (perfect for glove box). AWESOMENESS
5|super product, does exactly what I was hoping it would do. I bought 2 more, yippee
1|I bought this product because of it's portability, size, price and (supposed blazing USB 3.0) speed. I am extremely happy with all - but the most important feature. The USB 3.0 spec is 640MBs (with sustained throughput obviously much lower) but this drive makes my pet turtle seem fast! For example, copying a 21GB iPhoto library file from a late 27" 2012 i7 3.4Ghz iMac to the Seagate Backup "Plus" Slim 2TB drive over the USB 3.0 interface... took _hours_! And yes, other than the copy machine the computer was idle. If you do the math you will find something does not add up. I have also tried it using my late 2011 15" MacBook Pro (which only has USB 2.0) and the results were similar. Perhaps I received a bad drive ... I will update once Seagate returns to me.
5|I got this hard drive to put in my PS3, since I have PS+ and a lot of digital game purchases. This is one of the first 2TB thin enough to fit inside. YouTube has videos showing you how to do this in case you are considering it. I removed it from the case, formatted it to fat32 and have 4.60 firmware. It just displays an error that the hard drive is incompatible and won't go any further. It does physically fit inside the PS3. I have the newest super slim version of the PS3, if that matters. Since I have a PS4 that could also use it, I took the hard drive straight out of the PS3 and put it in the PS4. It worked just fine. I do not need that much storage yet since I only have a few PS4 games so far, but I'm sure it will eventually fill up. I am not sure what the limitation is, some people say 1TB is the maximum for the PS3, while others have said that they have 1.5TB working. I couldn't find anyone saying anything about if this 2TB drive would work, but apparently the answer is no.... Read more
5|Nice, portable... The kind of drive you want it with you all the time in order to backup your stuff
4|You can't use this one for Mac. Works fine for Windows.
5|So far works as it should. Nice little HD
5|Wonderful! It worths more than its price!
5|For a great 2 TB-ish capacity I have no complaints with the product.
5|Seagate is the very best Hard Drive on the planet...and this is a 2.5" form factor light weight silent drive
5|Excellent price, and exactly what I wanted. There was almost no setup time needed, just plug and play. I think the best part is that there is no additional power source, other than the connection to your computer. No fuss, no muss.
5|I like the size and speed of being able to back up and have a complete copy with me at all times.
5|Very handy and just what I needed to transfer from desktop to laptop
5|It was delivered in a timely manner and easy to setup
5|really nice looks and doesn't feel cheap. would buy it again if i needed another one
5|I started out with two LaCie XHDs years ago. They worked well until they didn't. In both cases the power switch became faulty. It got to where my last one simply didn't mount. So this time I did some research and came up with the Seagate 2TB portable. Small, light and totally solid state. Excellent! No switches, no nothing. all I had to do was plug it directly into my computer, from which it takes its power. It works seamlessly and perfectly with Time Machine. It has a tiny little slit that glows white when the power is on. I highly recommend it. Reasonably priced too.
5|Great HD especially for the price. No install needed for my iMac. No external power needed and is very thin and sleek
5|This is my first hard drive purchase. I use it for personal storage and file backup. ITs so cool; not much bigger than my iPhone, plug and play. I'll be recommending this to everyone who wants storage away from the cloud.
5|Love it! It's sleek, small, lightweight. Only one cable?. Fast. Spacious! Perfect!
5|Bought this to upgrade my PS4 HD about a year ago. Easy to take it out and use in the PS4 as an upgrade. I took the PS4 500gb drive and put it in the case. It's a nice small plug in storage now as well.
3|Good but the edges get scratched effortlessly and almost immediately after the purchase
1|Seagate as a Manufacture is a bad choice. Their devices don't last and they don't stand behind products. They stall on providing a fix until the warranty runs out then they don't return their emails or requests to tech support.
5|Really good, very fast and very pretty.
5|I've had this for two years. Great college companion.
4|Not what I was looking for but will keep it for back up until I buy what I'm looking for which was a wireless drive that was a digital drive not a mechanical drive. Overall good design with USB operation only very quite and compact so would recommend the drive as a back up it also offers cloud storage which I never use and will use this drive as my back up with NO connection to the web for security. Out of the box easy to use nothing surprising at operation. Hard drive for dummies.
4|Easy to set up and works fine.
5|Purchased for a client & I have one myself for back-up. Solid product
5|really nice looking piece and very practical to carry around, love it. I hope it will last me for a good time.
5|I have been using this for quite a while now and it is my 3rd Seagate portable external drive. I have found it to be very reliable and holds a lot. I have not tried to use it between mac and pc so I can't say how it does with that, but I do use one on my mac and one on my windows computer and both work great. I haven't had any issues with these ones and it is a bonus that they are extremely light and small. I also love the selection of colors because it helps me remember which hard drive contains what files.
1|I got a dud, so one star as a backup drive. The white LED on my drive would illuminate and I could hear it spin up, but it was never recognized. I tried to find the drive in disk manager, but nothing showed up for it. My Toshiba 1TB backup drive works fine with my laptop (same USB port), and I tried another cable, but no change. My coworkers warned me about buying a Seagate, but that was after I bought it. Aside from not working, the drive looks pretty nice since the case and size seem thinner and smaller than the WD, but larger than the Toshiba slim (which only goes up to 1TB). I will probably end up with the thicker WD passport, I'm done with Seagate.
5|Like it plus cheaper than name brand and they make the name brand.
5|Solid performer. Very quiet, stays cool and compact.
1|I bought two of these. I haven't even opened the second one and the first one is already failing. The USB connection kept dropping out sporadically so I did some troubleshooting. It took me a while to realize that it's the physical USB port on the drive itself that is faulty. Just touching the connector causes it do disconnect. I've tested it with two different cables thinking maybe it was a bad cable. Sadly it's the drive. I would not recommend this drive to anyone.
5|This design is great. The lighter weight .
5|Great device and great for backing up my pictures
4|Awesome
5|I just don’t know what I would do without this little lifesaver! I have had it for one year, it is half full (I’m a graphic design student), and I will absolutely be looking at seagate again soon when I need to get another one! Great product and extremely reliable!
4|works like a charm; bus powered and is much faster than a regular drive. I use this with ableton on very large audio projects and have no hard drive dropouts.
3|The data transfer is very slow and when photos are viewed they open very slow. The folder won't refresh fast. I think the overall write and read time is very high. It doesn't have performance as I expected. Poor performance.
5|Work for me
5|Like it much more than my E book. Nice and small and needs no external adapter.
5|good
5|Works great!!!
5|Seagate slim drives have always been a plus for me. This one is the same high quality and I recommend these to everyone.
1|Product is not working with my new computer that has Windows 10. Says it is unable to recover my files. Works fine on older computers... But not the one I needed it for
5|So far so good. I used this to replace the hard drive in my PS4. It's nice to have some breathing room on the PS4, and not have to bother with deleting one game, to be able to play another. Unlike what I read about it though, after putting the PS4 hard drive into the enclosure, I was not able to us it as an external drive. The computer recognizes the chip thats plugged into the hard drive, but doesn't see the drive itself. I will update the review if things change.
5|Put it in my ps4, so far so good
5|Great little compact external hard drive.
4|Lightweight. Compact. Thinner then WD 2TB.
4|This drive has been reliable and plays nice with both my PC and my Mac. I toss it into my laptop bag and it survives the jostling just fine. The light isn't too bright (not annoying), and the hum is almost imperceptible. It feels well-built. I decided to get this Seagate drive rather than a Western Digital drive because I'd heard that WD drives frequently burn out on Mac's. I didn't want to take the chance. For the price, I'm overall pleased with this purchase. I took one star off. Sometimes the light goes off and the drive stops spinning when connected to my computer but not accessed for a while. I want it to stay on because I use Backblaze online backup to also backup this drive. Sometimes I have to force quit and restart Finder in my Mac so that my Mac will mount the drive. It mounts just fine and is quickly recognized by my PC, however. Compared to the relatively loud external drives from a few years ago that required an additional power source, this one is smaller and a nice upgrade. It doesn't heat up significantly. I often forget it is there! My old Seagate Seagate FreeAgent Desk 1 TB USB 2.0 Desktop External Hard Drive ST310005FDA2E1-RK (Silver) was a real hummer, put out some heat and hogged power receptacles with it's large adapter plug. These days I think it's much better to stick with the USB-powered drives as long as your computer puts out enough power to keep them spinning. If you plan to use a USB hub, it is possible that you'll need a powered hub that plugs into the wall, so take that into consideration. Best luck!
5|backing up all my photos
5|works fine. used to backup laptop,
5|works and pretty much as fast as portable hard drives go. nice and slim and easily portable as well
5|Definitely better than the last version of Seagate I had. I have never had a problem with their products with the exception of another external drive had two parts to it. It seemed to have a bottom plug in to it, which I'm not sure why or it's function. Once those two pieces came apart, the drive failed to work. THIS ONE however is one solid piece and has worked perfectly so far. Hopefully I won't have to get another one anytime soon.
5|Good drive. Easy to recommend. Small, stylish and big capacity.
4|works.
1|less then two yeas and the Item stopped working - loss all my files Seasgate items SUCK
5|Great drive for carrying around.
5|These are great and I own 3. Blue, Red and Silver.
1|Don't waste your time with this. Instead get the Western Digital (WD) hard drive for Mac. This Seagate drive requires you to jump through all kinds of hoops to get it working. I returned this inferior product promptly but I won't get the time and frustration back. At least I can spare you the headache.
5|Very small and quiet
5|Works Great! fast interface
5|I like the clean lines of the physical product design, and the red color really pops in my bag. The drive so far has performed perfectly: fast speeds, ultra quiet, and substantial space.
5|Great portable HDD, very easy to use and has fast transfer rates. I have mine formated for Mac, PC, and an encrypted partition. It works extremly well, and is a great deal for 2TB of storage.
5|Great Hard Drive. Have had no issues.
5|bought this to replace a ps4 drive, using the old ps4 drive as the external for an xbox one's drive... now i have 1tb on both machines...yay me? overall faster loading times and quite to use... I'd bought a 2tb afterward for general storage for my computers and works like a charm.
5|This external hard drive back up is exactly what it says it is. It performs how it says it will perform. It has excelled in protecting my data to this point.
4|Good product
5|bought for my husband found it cheaper on amazon! so excited for him to get it for christmas
4|Good storage device.
5|I ordered this 2TB portable external Hard drive to store all of my videos and it works very well. It has the newest 3.0 usb for faster transferring which is awesome and this 2TB portable external hard drive is very thin and light weight compared to other hard drives this size of 2TB.
1|It was a 5GB and it was all broke
5|very nice love it.
5|I swapped my PS4 internal drive with the drive inside this external drive. It went off without a hitch, and at the time of purchase, that was cheaper than buying a 2TB 2.5" drive.
5|Perfect
5|Perfect
5|Tons of storage in a small case. USB 3.0 for fast file transfer.
5|Great little backup drive.
5|Use this for backing up my files and my xbox, works great!
5|Arrived very quickly. Works very well. I'm really happy with it.
4|gets the job done. - working as a backup for my time machine.
5|Works as advertised.
1|I used it for less than a month before the plugin part became wobbly. I then went to move the hard drive (in a case) less than a yard onto my bed, when the cord fell out of the drive while connected to my computer, and something popped up saying "Eject "[Name]" before disconnecting or turning it off." Following this, my Mac no longer recognizes the Seagate drive and the Disk Utility states "Failed to load NTFS Journal" and the "File system check exit code is 228." I've tried un/reinstalling Paragon (NTFS plugin to make it work with both Mac and PC) several times, to no avail. Extremely disappointed in this product. This is the second Seagate Backup Plus Slim product I have had issues with, with near-identical problems (though the first one had issues with the exit code being "8" instead of "228"). Basically it works for about a month, then just fails.
5|Easy set up for storing my videos, very easy to use and it's a sleek, compact and nice looking storage machine.
5|Has been good to me. No issues. I've even lightly dropped it a couple times and it still works like a charm!
5|Just as expected.
5|Just is what I needed.
5|nice
4|This review is for the 4 TB Drive. I currently own another Seagate external hard drive, Wireless Plus 1TB Portable Hard Drive. I have owned that for almost two years and have had no problems, and it has worked perfectly, so I am satisfied with Seagate's products. I decided to try this product because it holds so much data and is so small. So far, it has worked very well. I have a lot of big movie and image files for my business. I need a lot of space, and this product has that, with 4 TB of space! That is amazing for a device this small. It is powered entirely by the USB ports on my computer. It comes with a connector that has dual USB plugs just in case one port doesn't deliver enough power. My computer seems to do fine with just one port, although I tried both at first. This means that if you don't have two free USB ports on your computer, you might be unable to use this drive. Luckily I have two that are free. My ports are not USB 3, so the transfer speeds weren't that impressi... Read more
5|Great product and holds a ton
5|Love this! Easy to use and bonus 200 gb of one drive cloud storage
5|excellent external drive
3|When I got this product for the first time it was operating the way it should be. I was able to save large autocad drawings and rerieved the same for use. Sometime, while I was manipulating informations in this drive, it suddenly malfunctioned. Warning signs came up in my monitor screen which said that the files or informations contained in this drive had been corrupted. It also asked me if I wanted to remove these corrupted files. Then I removed the corrupted files. Thereafter, this drive became unusable. It didn't work anymore. I tried to seek the help of Seagate Technology to fix the problem but it was unsuccessful. One day, I decided to apply my last option to fix it, that is, reformat this drive. I got it. The problem was resolved and this drive is working again. However, it is now working as a local drive and it does not have a Seagate identity. I am happy to continue using my drive this way. Thanks for everything.
5|It is what I like. I really think the product is well.
5|what I want to say is that the product looked really good.
5|Amazing!
4|I've heard of people having issues with this type of drive. I have had this for a while now, and have not run into any problems as of yet. I love the color.
4|Good
5|This is a great backup drive for my iMac with 1TB of storage. I gave this 5 stars because of price to value ratio. For the price you can't afford not to have one.
5|just awesome
5|Excellent hard drive. Small and powered by USB. No external power supply needed.
5|cool 2TB drive using ig for a months - so far so good
5|No issues although Ive only had it for a few months now. Tranfers fast with 3.0 USB
5|It is good. I like.
5|Great product!
5|1TB of pron without a problem
5|Awesome product. Arrived as stated. Reliable seller.
5|I connected it to my Xbox One and it works great without any issues.
4|Glad I invested in this since my iTunes collection was really getting to be to muck for my PC storage to handle. It was easy to setup and now it automatically saves any new games I downloaded to iTunes.the wifi backup is not that great since I had a lot of stuff, it took forever
5|free backup is great
5|These backup drives are indispensable. I come from a time when backup technology was very poor and very expensive. It amazes me the advances in storage technology we have made in the past 10 years. I use a Mac which has a good quality backup solution built into the OS as it should be. Windows platforms are really weak in this department. I cannot answer to that. My Windows based work computer doesn't have backup. I frequently move important files from it to my Mac just because I trust it less. You have to think about backups these days. There is too much to lose now. And Windows platforms are killing themselves by not solving this problem.
5|So far so good!
5|Seeing as I used it to replace my old ps4 hard drive I have to say it is a fantastic replacement, and I could still use the case after to hold my ps4 hard drive to use as a backup for my computer. Works very well and I would recommend to people looking for something of good quality with decent speed!
5|The space is large.
5|Five stars for the hardware, zero for the software. Downloaded Leo and a am very satisfied with this purchase and plan to order another for my wife.
5|I use this to connect to my macbook pro for time machine.
5|Small but effective backup for my new Windows 10 computer.
4|I have another brand of external HD that I bought a few years ago. I upgraded to windows 10 and and even though it was also 1TB a Windows msg pops up saying there is not enough space available to do the backup. I bought this Seagate one and it is tiny compared to the older one even though it is the same capacity. Doesn't take up any room at all and so far is performing as expected.
5|Best small, portable slim hard drive. Don't buy portable WD hard drives, get this one!
5|I bought this drive as an upgrade drive to use in my PS4. It worked amazingly.
2|On a mac, the software is woefully inadequate. Hoops to just get it to work and then, there's no way to prevent it from starting up. Prefs don't allow you to disconnect without simply uninstalling -- and the drive won't work without it! UGH.
5|I bought this as a follow up to my 1TB seagate backup slim from a couple years ago. Love how small and sleek it is. The connection port within the backup is nice and tight (the other one, perhaps over a year or two of me pulling it out and putting it in has gotten pretty loose and doesn't take much to get 'disconnected improperly' from my computer anymore). I'm not super tech savvy, so I'm not sure why, but for some reason it won't let me add things from someone else's computer (read only? or write-only? I can't remember from the napster and CD-R days). I can only GIVE people things, I can't take from their device. I'm sure there's a fix for this somewhere on the internet, but it'd be nice if it just came that way. Overall though, transfer speeds are super fast, really like it!
5|Worth more than I paid. Does everything I needed right out of the package and had a few surprises as well. Backs up the iPhone with ease and is plug and play. Can't ask for a better, more solidly built ExHD.
4|Slim and nice
5|I work in the tech industry with primarily small business clients, and so most of them have either an physical backup that they switch out and take offsite, or use a cloud service, or both. These have been good basic drives for swapping out for those clients. They work well with Windows Server backup, and the size makes them particularly easy to swap out and take off site. Have been using them for a while now and haven't had any failures yet - (although drives fail, so I'm sure the time is coming). But overall so far, performance has been good, reliability has been good, and they are cost-effective and a good size for users to rotate offsite.
5|Great drive. Slim and fast. The cable is not very long, so you may be needing to buy a longer one. Apart from that, a perfect drive, worth the money. Shipped and delivered as expected.
4|Good quality
5|Great size and looking forward to using it.
5|woud buy this all over again..perfect..life saver
5|This is a small, flat, very portable, and apparently durable product. I used it to back up my entire drive before installing widows 10. Everything is there, and the backup process went simply and smoothly. There are other reviews that go into greater detail about technical issues; I read them and I recommend you do too. Seagate has an excellent guarantee and can probably recover the data from a "failed" drive unless you dropped it while you were writing to it. If something happens, I strongly recommend you contact them FIRST. I have both this drive and cloud storage. Because my internet connection is miserable most of the time, I plan to try to replace any lost information from this drive before I go online, but belt and suspenders protection of your important data is well worth it, and this drive is not expensive.
4|Very small and sturdy...fast...nice 1TB USB 3.0 drive.
4|Love the design. Looks great. Works like a charm. The only reason why it's not getting 5 stars is because the interface that pops up when you first get the software running isn't as intuitive as it could be. I tried to take advantage of the free cloud back-up it comes with. After about a half hour of working on it, I realized that the feature that was available in the image in the manual was not an available feature on my interface. I'm ok with that since it was a bonus feature to me and not the only reason why I purchased this hard drive in the first place. It was a good deal. I would definitely get another.
4|great little back up drive works on mac and pc.
4|I bought it as a gift so I can't comment much. But it looked very sleek and nice.
4|I guess it;s ok, no problems as yet.
2|9/26/15 - I received this item in the mail. Awesome, sleek design, works great. I got the protective case for it and treat it like black gold. Always properly ejected, never left on, dropped, or abused in any way. 10/27/15 - After transferring all my files from my computer and deleting them for additional space, the drive suddenly decided to stop working. The light suddenly did not turn on, but we can hear some "clicking" going on internally. The computer does not detect the drive connected via USB. This conveniently happened only a day after the 30-day warranty had expired.. Unfortunately we did not purchase the 2-year data recovery plan, or the extended warranty. We did not get far enough to set up the Free 2 year cloud storage.. not that it would've mattered since we have well over 200 GB of data that was lost. I've attempted to call Seagate a couple of times without luck. One time I was even told they were "closed due to a staff meeting" and the machine hung up on me. 11/2/15 - Today I was able to get a hold of Seagate. I asked about data recovery and they pretty much laughed at me saying no company offers that for free. I asked why I would have to pay for their failed products and he essentially called me a liar saying there had to be a user error as their product wouldn't just quit working for "no reason". I was transferred to a data recovery supervisor named Mark who was extremely helpful and told me that even though they couldn't offer it for free, they have this software he would email me a key for that could potentially help me recover my files. After that, he said Warranty would call me back shortly to process the claim and get another drive sent to me. Will update this as I progress...
1|Within 1 month of use, the drive started emitting high pitched squeaking sounds every few minutes. Now, 10 months later, the drive has completely died taking all my files with it. Worst drive I've ever purchased.
4|very good
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage & Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (STDR1000103) - Red Elegant, compact, 1 TB!, quiet, I love it! Plug and play!
5|I purchased this hard drive to back up large audio files. It's a nice shade of red, it was a great price for an external hard drive (a little under $60), and functions very well. And it's compact and slim! I will be buying this brand in the future!
5|So far this has been a great external. Its very fast.
5|I'm a big fan of Seagate. I multiple portable hard drives and feel that Seagate's products are very dependable and durable.
4|I am buying the Backup Plus 4TB. The Plus is one Seagate/Samsung ST4000LM016 4TB SMR drive. The Plus FAST is 2 Seagate/Samsung 2TB SpinPoint M9T ST2000LM003 . The Plus 4TB drive is 15mm's so it won't fit in most laptops or 2.5" containers. I am pulling them out of the container and using them in a RaidZ for files that I rarely if ever will access again, but need to keep. Low Power, Low Heat, Small size make them ideal for what I need. You can put 12 of these in 3x5.25" bays, which in a RaidZ2 gives you 36.4TB usable space. I attached 2 pictures of the speeds hooked up to USB 3.0 port. The pictures are with the drive empty. My experience with the drives so far is, as they fill up, they slow. One screen shot is stressing it with 1GB files the other is with 5GB files. Generally they seem to be faster with Larger files.
5|First time to use it and may i say, i prefer WD?
5|Great tool for backing up information on your computer.
5|Holds all my important documents and family photos.
5|very good. high speed and easy to carry
5|This added 4TB to my xbox one. Worked flawlessly.
5|I had never done this before, but had regretted not backing up my hard drive. Works fast and easy through the USB cord included....Gobbles up all of your important info into a small box.
5|This is my back up drive I bought for work. I have a apple mac tower and and a designer that generates thousands of files. Works perfectly. No issues whatsoever. So small, thin and wonderful.
1|Spent over 3 hours and pulled out most of my hair trying to get this to work on my Mac. Other reviews made it seem pretty simple and straightforward to setup, but that was not the case with me. I haven't been able to find any easy answers to my problems. I'm walking out the door to return it and get another WD, which I've had no issues with and had straightforward instructions on how to set it up.
5|Just what I was needing. Great quality from Seagate as expected.
1|Total junk. Was waiting for it for 4 days - finally got it. None of the computers can see it. Yes at first it recognized that it been connected but that is it. In both computers when you go to my computer or search for hardware it does not shoe it. Sure network engineer can figure it out - but that is NOT the point - it MUST work from start and should be Plug and Play. Period. If it does not do it then it is nothing but JUNK. Returning drive - will try my luck with WD may be those will work better from start.
5|Great
5|Works as advertised, has plenty of capacity and is powered entirely through the usb interface. The cable is rather short and stiff and is easily disconnected when disturbed.
1|Item was defective and the drive failed after 2 days of use. Needed to return it to Seagate, as all my personal data had already been loaded on it and I was not comfortable returning it to Amazon.
5|Perfect!!
5|item received in time and as expected.
5|Loves it. Bought it for my PS4 and still works great!!!
5|Connected this to our Channel Master. The set-up was simple.
4|Very good product
5|These are wonderful in that these are reliable back-up storage EHDs that are metal encased. Furthermore, these are very reasonably priced and relatively large capacity drives.
4|I purchased the 4TB Fast version and my feedback is specific to this unit only and may not apply to other versions. I bought this to expand the storage on my Xbox One, but in comparison to other External HDDs there are a few things unique about this particular model you should know about. As other reviews have mentioned, this uses two 2TB Hard Drives in a RAID 0 setup which is pretty unique for an external HDD. For non-techies what this means is that it splits the data between the two drives. A benefit is that you have potential to double the typical read/write speeds since you have two drives accessing the same amount of data. Real world results will vary, but this is how Seagate can advertise the product as being 'Fast' relative to their other offerings. Also since data is split across two drives, you get double the storage capacity compared to other single drive external HDDs. This comes with one major downside. If one of the two drives fail, all of the data will be unusable and with two drives you increase your chance of failure. Don't be alarmed, just know there are trade offs to this design before you purchase. High risk, high reward. Also since there are two drives you will need more power than your typical portable external HDD. Seagate knew this and gives you two USB cables. Both connect will connect to the Seagate unit but the cables have either one or two USB connectors. The reason is that if your device has limited power output through its USB ports, you can use the cable with two USB connectors to give it some extra power, this is a 'Y' cable. On the Y cable with two connectors, one has a blue plastic to mark it as the USB 3.0 data connector. The other USB connector is completely black and is used for the supplying the additional power. The standard cable with just one connector is USB 3.0 and data. It is straight forward and like any other data cable. Since this uses two disks, it needs more power and I recommend using the Y connector when possible. I first tried using the single USB 3.0 cable on my Xbox One. My Xbox One detected it, formatted it, and it looked like it was working. However, when you do anything that really utilizes the HDD, the Xbox became very unstable with very slow transfer speeds. It would fail to load games despite it showing up as fully detected by the Xbox. Games would transfer from the internal to the external drive, but it was very slow. I spent most of an evening trying to troubleshoot it, thinking the drive could be defective. I went ahead and tried the Y connector and fixed all problems. If you have instability issues or slow transfers try the Y cable, it could just be a power issue. One tip I can provide is that if you need to use the Y cable for the additional power and you have a limited number of USB ports on your device, plug the blue USB 3.0 connector into your primary device and you can plug the black USB power connector into any other secondary device that is powered. That 2nd power connector is only needed for power, so it doesn't have to connect to the primary device. I did this on my Xbox One since it has 3 USB ports and I didn't want to dedicate two of them to this external HDD. I plugged the blue USB 3.0 data connector into the Xbox one and I plugged the black power USB connector into a nearby secondary device (cable box) that had a open USB port I knew I wasn't going to use. This setup works perfectly and lets me use the other USB ports on the Xbox for the controller charging cable and other accessories.
5|I've had it for about a month. Works great, is fast and effective. No issues so far.
5|great.
5|working well
5|very goog
1|Update 11/13/15 1 month, 12 days later my 2TB drive failed. It lights up and beeps, but won't mount. Thinking it was an issue with my computer, I tried another computer. Finally brought the drive to my company's IT department, who verified it's busted. I'll try returning it, in the meantime, going back to my 1TB version which has worked perfectly. Original review After having the 1TB version, I was hoping for something just as reliable with more storage. I’ve had zero problems with the disk and data. Having gone through several WD drives with issues over the years, I think I’ve finally found a model I like (also had a great experience with the Samsung drives, but at the time had a propriety cable). It’s fast! The disk is partitioned for my Macbook Air. Part of it’s used for Time Machine backups, second portion for movies, and the third as scratch disks for Adobe Photoshop. Write speeds seem to be as quick as my old Apple Airport Extreme, there’s no lag watching blu ray movies, and if there’s a difference in speed with the scratch disks (vs using my hard drive), it’s not noticeable. It’s small! It’s the same size as the 1TB model (newer 2TB model on the right in black). I travel a lot and hate carrying external drives. Despite this being small, I still don’t like bringing it though - I’m one of the minimalist travel types. Positives: + Great build quality, looks and feels good + Small + Fast for what I use it for I wish it was wireless, or had a built-in cable, but now I'm being nit-picky.
5|This is a great external hard drive. It is very user friendly, and also highly customizable for people who are tech-savvy and want to use the drive with both Mac and Windows OS. Despite frequent use, it has held up well both in terms of data storage and in terms of the aesthetic appearance of the outside case. The cord works well and the data transfer speed is acceptable. The drive is not too heavy, which is a nice bonus when I'm carrying it!
5|Very good product and received on time.
2|The original one that I ordered was defective. After writing about 10Gb of data, it would repeatedly hang my computer and peripherals then disconnect/reconnect ALL peripherals including this drive. When I received a replacement drive, I decided to slam the second drive with as many writes to see if I could replicate the problem. While writing to the replacement disk, it continually will freeze up like the first but not affect the rest of my peripherals. The drive has not failed writing completely, but it will rest at 0 bytes/s for several seconds before bursting to 100 Mb/s at a time during larger writes. Reading from the drive does not seem the be affected. Originally, I thought this problem was because my drive controller was going out or the front panel was dropping my drive. I tested this against the older 2Tb Seagate external version that I own on both the front and back panels of my computer, and I have come to the conclusion that the newer version is unable to take as much at one time. The older Seagate drives are able to write all of my media files in half the time without dropping to 0 bytes/s. This drive is useful for writing multiple, smaller files rather than large media files. I am hesitant to purchase another Seagate drive in the near future because of these recurring problems.
1|Doesn't work it MacBook Pro, well at least mine
5|Love the slim size for 2TB!
3|Difficult to configure to MAC. Not a plug in and go. Eventually got it to work by downloading a driver from the seagate website.
5|Very reliable!
5|GREAT option for those who wish to upgrade the Hard Drive of their Playstation 4! I just purchased the new 500GB PS4 Uncharted Bundle and I figured it was a good idea to upgrade before I started to upload games, videos, etc. to the stock HDD. 2TB would be perfect for me now and in the forseeable future (until I need 4TB...). I am NOT a "computer tech" or even anyone with the slightest experience in working on computers/gaming systems, so this item sounded like just the thing for me (AND IT IS). By only using the official PS Support web-site, almighty G00GLE, and even Amazon comments/reviews, a simple 1GB USB to back up my data, and a small Phillips head screwdriver, I successfully removed, changed-out, re-installed the hard drive of my PS4 (2TB instead of 500GB) and installed the required firmware to my new PS4 with NO PROBLEMS whatsoever! Couldn't be any easier, in my opinion... While I'm sure there are other hard drives out there for the PS4, this one is perfect for me and my PS4 needs. I now have a spare 500GB (420GB, really) HDD to use elsewhere. A BIG thanks goes out to all of the previous Amazon.com Reviewers for the info!
1|This is impossible to use with a new Dell PC with Windows 8. It reads as corrupted even though brand new. What a waste of time.
5|Works seamlessly with my Xbox One.
5|Worked great would do business again. Thanks
5|As expected
5|Hard drive worked perfectly in my PS4. Very satisfied.
5|I'm happy with this item. It's my second one, used for portable backup at work.
5|working correct. fast.
5|Use it every day for school and gaming. Reviews I have read have said it's terrible for gaming but so far I have seen no dips in performance. I did notice the price went up after I had bought it, but still worth it.
5|Love the size.and quality.
5|It is slim and lightweight. The access speed is very good. A good bargain for the size and performance.
5|Works well and recovery of information is smooth and fast.
1|This hard drive is very bad. Mine stays on my desk all day and night never removed from it. And it crashed all of a sudden. with all my "life in there" as a TV Producer myself I should know better this brand is very bad. I gave it a try, but regret every single second of my life. Don't buy it. Always go and opt for LaCie, very strong portable have drives hard. At work we just work with LaCie and never had a problem.
5|Exactly as described, works great for my ps4!
5|I have owned one of these 2 TB drives for over one year and am very pleased with its operation. It is extremely quiet, includes a top indicator light which is lit when drive is mounted via USB, and works well with either USB 2 or USB3. Although the drive is 5400 RPM (as are all bus-powered "portable" drives I have seen), its USB-3 performance is nearly as good as 7800 models, due to Windows inefficiencies. As with all bus-powered drives, use a "Y" cable with USB-2 connections unless the host computer/host or hub routinely provides double the 500 mA USB-2 spec (which many do). I have recently purchased three more of these. With extended usage (20 minutes or more continuous reading or writing), the drive gets quite warm, but not so hot it cannot be held. Cooling is radiant only (no fan). My primary use is for backing up 20,000 to 50,000 files at a time which exercises the drive very heavily for 20 to 30 minutes.
4|Nice
5|I bought one of these earlier this year in order to give my PS4 more data space and it works fine! The installation was easy and I now have 1.7 TB worth of space on my PS4 and I don't have to worry about whether or not installing my games will take up all my space anymore.
1|Based on my experience using three (3) Seagate Backup Plus 2TB drives for photo (RAW) and editing (Apple Pro Res) purposes, I was compelled to jump on a 4TB model. After 24 hours of use, I am thoroughly disappointed by the performance of this drive. The performance lag is evident and could potentially be a detriment if and when the drive fails. The drive continually dismounts, especially when transferring large amounts of data. It seems that the drive can not handle 100GB transfers or more without dismounting unnecessarily. I considered keeping this drive as a traditional backup drive but its inability to sustain large data transfers is a draw back and the potential for the unit to fail seems likely, a chance that I am not willing to take with the media that I work on daily. I am surprised how poorly this drive rates in terms of performance and how this unit continually receives decent feedback. Performance may depend on the type of work that is intended to be done on the drive, so if speed and data integrity is a necessity, do not choose this unit. I have considered the 4TB Fast version but I may stick to multiple 2TB drives since they have yet to fail during operation. I'll wait until the 4TB Fast is on sale.
5|Great!
5|Works super. No problems connecting to my Mac.
5|Fast Shipping - great price.
5|Using as a back up drive, only had for about a month, so a little to early to tell how it will hold up. Works perfectly with my Macs.
5|Works perfectly in my PS4.. very happy with it.
2|I have gone through TWO of these hard drives in the past three months. First, I bought this product (October 18th) in hopes of replacing one that had stopped working. It was working fine until I couldn't access it on my computer not long after buying it (Replacement order was placed October 26th). So, I got a replacement, which was working perfectly until it stopped working today. So now, I am perfectly fed up with how these companies pair their product with such awful cords. I don't think this was the main factor of the problem, but I cannot count how many times I have lost work because it was sitting perfectly still on my desk and the cord happened to slide out of the drive. I will not be spending anymore time or money on these products and hope other customers have had more luck.
5|I have so many external hard disk drives that I really don't know what to do with them all. But a 4 gigabyte, portable, external drive it's so groundbreaking, it is a must have. And it is now the only external drive I carry in my briefcase.
5|Easy to set up, and seems to work well.
5|works great as it should
5|It's smaller than I thought and 1TB OMG I love that product.You can trust Seagate. Put your pocket and go.
5|Very good.
5|So far so good. This is my first tiny external HDD. It's the size of an iPhone and backed up my entire drive on my laptop. The size is very convenient too. It's a breeze to back up with this unit. I didn't use the software that came with it. I used XXClone freeware. Backing up is really easy too, so don't worry about the task. The software programs usually make it a point and click procedure.
1|This is the worst product. It worked fine for a month and then is started giving me trouble. Hard drive is not getting detected on my computer and now I can't return the product. Please don't buy this product
5|Excellent product
5|Quick shipping; percfect; new!
5|Works as described Great!!! product
4|Great for storing with all the space. My only problem is that, I can not play movies directly from it to my TV because it does not have a power source.
5|Nice... it works !
4|Good stuff
5|Super-small size and great performance. Great price.
5|Works great for backing up my PC. Should not be used for backing up a phone. The connector only works with a computer using USB.
5|slim fast would buy again
5|Easy to install for usage any PC with USB.
5|It was a good deal that I could buy it with that price.
1|This disk never worked. The item send was corrupted.
5|Works great, a plug & play device. Arrived promptly and in safe condition. I recommend this item.
5|cool and the super fastly hardrive! I like it!
5|Loce this little external HD. Easy to take it everywhere and plays really smoothly. I just put a rubber grip patch on it to keep sliding, but other than that, it's great!
5|.......... Works great looking at number two soon.
5|I bought this drive to replace the hard drive on my PS4, worked like a charm! Now the PS4 shows the 1.8-ish TB storage that I can use to fill with games, quick gameplay videos from the Share Button, and other things too. It's very easy to open the enclosure on this one to get the drive and swap with the one on the PS4. HOWEVER, do note that this WILL void your warranty, so please make sure you know what to do and most importantly, that you are SURE this drive is in perfect working condition before the swap. Also, with this drive I got an offer for additional OneDrive storage. At first I struggled with the Support from Seagate to add the promotion but a few minutes later everything was all set and I got my extra gigabytes of cloud storage.
5|Fast, compact, works with just USB power, great for a creating a system image (which would not work on some of the earlier drives).
5|I bought the Seagate 1TB after my Seagate 320GB became to small to accommodate my Time Machine (the photo is of comparing both units). So far I no complaints as it is working as it should, and the additional storage should last be a good bit.
4|Excellent product for a great price!
5|was able to take it out of the case and install it into my NUC system. works beautifully. is very fast and quiet. great value.
5|Works well.
5|HUGE. Very nice and easy to use. Plug and play on a windows 7 machine. Great value for the price.
1|Was not what I expected. I was looking for a fleece type product.
5|Just as I expected and excellent quality.
5|A great produce that I purchased a few months ago and have all my backups on it. Great produce!
5|This drive is great for doing system backups. It is fast and has good storage capacity.
5|Works Great and easy to use.
5|Nice and slim, easy to carry when I need be away from home. Great!!
5|This is a very nice and easy to use external hard drive. I was able to back up some of my PC computer files (via windows 10) immediately after plugging in the usb adapter. No problems whatsoever. This is a small and lightweight device - easy to carry.
5|An awesome product with a bright color. It's very fast and looking shiny and sexy. Seagate is always a good brand and I am happy with it.
4|The Backup Plus Slim is tiny, slim (as the name says), fast and reliable so far. What's not to like?
5|Love this drive!
5|I use it with Norton Ghost to keep my systems backed up. I have a desktop and laptop. The first one travels with me and the second stays home with the desktop. I have two different colors to keep them straight.
5|I really love this hard drive, it let me have with me a copy of almost all my stuff in a very little space. It is fast enough, I could measure 110 MBps of throughput speed. Time will say about reliability.
5|excellent quality with unbelievable price?
5|A gift
5|I owned like 3 WD drives and gave up on that brand so a friend pointed me to this brand and holy cow its lived longer than WD drives I've had. It's bigger too! In capacity, but definitely slimmer than 1TB WD external I had. Never going back to a 1TB. 2TB is just too perfect for me.
1|I exchanged a WD backup drive for a Seagate back plus slim 2TB at PC World! In the space of a week it failed. I then exchanged it again everything went well for a while....2 weeks later my laptop was due for some repairs so I backed up my laptop on the Seagate (as you do!)....2 days after handing in my laptop for repairs the Seagate drive packed up. Phoned up Seagate and they put me in touch with a data recovery company who wanted to charge up $750 to retrieve my data. Scandalous! Couldn't believe the absolute drivel that I was hearing. However this is prevalent in the Data Recovery industry - these companies charge what they like irrespective of the type of work required. It is a rip off and Seagate (as well as WD) are supporting this industry. Trading Standards please look into this. How could they justify charging that amount for data recovery on a media that cost me £75. Shocking - beware of the this product - imho it is not robust and breaks down easily. I have data that I absolutely need since my laptop is in for repairs but Seagate will palm you off to a "Approved" data recovery partners who do nothing but feed off your misery! I am still in a hole can anyone help!!!!!
2|I purchased the backup to use with my MacBook Pro. The mfg doesn't tell you that the product is not compatible with the USB drive on the Mac, meaning the provided cable is worthless. To use the backup you must first find and purchase another cable that fits the smaller port on the Mac and has a female USB connector on the other end at a cost of $30. Very disappointed in my purchase.
5|Nice compact
4|I have a few of these drives and they work great. They are very slim and lightweight. Easy to bring into the field. So far, they have been very reliable. They're also a good price!I did subtract 1 star for durability. Compared to the LaCie rugged drives, they are not quite as accident proof. However, I think the price difference still makes them a good option
1|I am extremely disjointedness with this Seagate Model. I currently own tow other Seagate External Har Drives- 500 GB each. I wanted a 2TB drive. It is not much bigger than my 500 GB one but what a shock- I cannot not successfully use it with my HP Despot CPU! This item needs a UNIQUE CORD which is too SHORT to connect to a desktop CPU. It is only 12 inches long and would have to dangle from the back of my CPU where the 3.0 USP Port is located. Also handing from the back of the CPU makes it is inconvenient and non accessible for this being a PORTABLE Storage External Drive. The end which plugs into the Segregate Backup Plus- when measures 1/2 inch wide is very unique -it is a double mini USB port in one plug- This makes it impossible to use it with a longer single mini USB and there is not longer cord available for this specific Model. This makes thsi unit only useful for a lap top which I do not own.
5|great product
1|I have bought three of these and they have all failed within a year. Look elsewhere if you want reliable hard drives/ backup space.
5|Small package; lightweight; USB 3.0 is very fast; 2TB storage capacity and low price makes this a perfect external storage drive.
5|very light, easy to carry
5|Perfect item.
5|always great
1|It functions fine as an external hard drive when hooked up by USB to your laptop. If that's what you're looking for, go for it. However, I saw many users use this for their PS4 as a hard drive (it meets all the technical specs). This is what I bought mine for, but it wouldn't fit in the PS4. I figured no problem, any company nowadays will let me swap it out for a new one (there's a sticker on it that says warranty is voided if this is removed - which it was not). Not the case here, it seems like they ignored my return request. Anyway I've cut my losses and am using it for a backup on my laptop.
5|Used as a hdd for PS4 after popping it out the case, perfect functionality.
5|Good
5|Works great ~ Had it for 4 months now & no problems
5|So far it works great?
1|I've just gotten off the phone - twice - with Seagate tech support after trying unsuccessfully - twice - to install this "simple" back-up device that's meant to seamlessly reconfigure to Mac. Wrong. The first time I tried to install it, I couldn't get past the Register page as it wouldn't allow me to enter my language choice, hence I couldn't register. That led to call #1. Pleasant fellow took all my information, then screen-shared to set up the Mac interface himself. Fine. But when I undertook the first back-up, it moved at an unacceptably-slow snail's pace, at which point I called tech support again. At this point's been 45 minutes of phone time for something that should take 10 minutes. The second techie then accused Apple's software of causing the problem and said she couldn't help. Off I went to Apple - where they're used to cleaning up others' mistakes - and sure enough the fellow there discovered that Seagate had used incorrect settings the first time around! What a pain! I should've stuck with Lacie - so easy, never had to contact tech support. But thought I'd try Seagate this time. I'm now waiting to see if the backup works but I have little faith in the product or - specifically - the tech support. Know your product and don't pass the blame. You listening, Seagate???
4|HDD is very slow, but otherwise perfect!
5|Case is easy enough to pry apart with fingernails. Just go slowly and think about what you're doing. It's held together with double sided foam tape to the drive so don't pry up too hard on any one end or you'll bend the case. Makes for an easy way to harvest a good 2TB drive and use the external case with another drive if you want to.
5|Working perfectly !
5|Happy happy happy. Easy to use and fast and sleek and lots of crazy storage.
5|Exactly as ordered... Works great
5|very good
5|its great? i love it
5|I have always used Seagate Backups and I love them. They are dependable and small and easy to use. No problems with them.
4|Took a day and a half to transfer a major file from my desktop but, that said, I have very little to complain about this drive. I'm satisfied.
5|GOOD, No problems!
5|I like this a lot. I use it everyday with no problems. The only thing that would make it better is if the case protected it more against falls.
5|Very nice and fast
4|good
5|It was just what I needed. Easy set up.
5|I wish I had bought this years ago! LOVE IT!!!
1|I bought this for a piece of s*** that decided to hit my mom after I bought it for him
5|I have several of these now. They have all been great. The risk with these is to backup / store data on them as a sole storage location. I suggest you back it up! The drives do get pretty warm when working them, I would not recommend storing them in air tight cases when heavily using them, this may result in their premature demise. I also suggest you encrypt the partition/drive before you start using it.
5|Excellent ! This is all you will need if you are a home user. It is portable and extremely light.
5|More space for a good price
5|I love this backup. So small but holds so much data. Even like the color, now I can tell the different external hard drives apart. I still label but color is the clue. My next one will be red!
5|I bought this for my Xbox one because the internal 500Gbs is not nearly enough when your average game is 20+ Gbs. The hard drive was easy to use. Just plug it in to any of the Xbox's USB Ports and IT'll format it for you to use with the Xbox. Games load very fast with loading times comparable to the internal storage. It's also very thin and small so it's very discrete and can be tucked away behind the xbox.
5|product is good. fast shipping. Thanks
5|works as expected.
5|Worked perfect right out of the box, small, light, high capacity, good price, can't find anything whatsoever to complain about.
5|This is a great, compact portable hard drive. It is my first "backup" system. I have a Mac, and was prepared for a complicated reformatting process. However, I was pleasantly surprised to find that Time Machine was able to automatically recognize the disk and very quickly format it for use. The initial backup took a few hours (~300GB), but subsequent backups only a few minutes, as it only updates what was added or changed. I still have lots of space, and the bonus cloud storage is also a nice feature. This drive is so small that you could easily take it with you in a backpack or briefcase if necessary. It is powered by the USB connection, so does not require an outlet. The red finish is nice! So far, I have only positive things to say about the drive itself, and have enjoyed the peace of mind that having a copy of my files brings. I wish the drive came with a case to protect and store the cable and the drive together so they don't get lost. I have just been keeping them in the original box, but I see that several 3rd party cases are available, so I will be getting one of those.
5|Excellent. Just what I needed, Thanks
5|a good piece , very slim , lovin it
5|great?
1|Not even a year after I bought, and having issues reading lost all my data I put on it. The cable it comes with is of low quality and don't work with all my other portable hard drives.
5|The hard drive is really great. Large capacity for a good price. Bought 2 because the other one was on sale here at Amazon.
5|Easy to use
2|Amazingly, Seagate found a way to make something as simple as a USB drive difficult to use. And brace yourself for an avalanche of spam emails from Seagate. This is the fifth Seagate USB drive that I have purchased and thanks to their efforts to get me to use their cloud and one of the most obtuse user interfaces I've ever encountered it is the last Seagate product I'll buy. Hey Seagate - fire your marketing department; they suck.
5|very slim!
5|Great and fast for backing up pc/laptop or just files.
1|I got this drive for use with my iMac (2009) and MacBook Pro (2011). First I reformatted it for Mac, and then I installed El Capitan OS 10.11 on it. I was able to boot from this via USB2 (my Macs do not have USB3). Worked fine. But, after turning off the computer and rebooting without the external drive, the drive no longer mounts on either Mac. The Apple Disk Utility shows the drive to be connected, and the single named partition is shown, but it will not mount (message says needs repair) and cannot be repaired (message says needs to be mounted or needs to be erased) and cannot be erased to start over . Disk Utility will not eject it or unmount it. I have not been able to find out whether 4 TB is too large for my Macs, so that partitioning would have been desired (not possible now, Disk Utility will not do that on this drive). For me this has been a very disappointing experience.
5|Slim and good quality hdd. Very slim and no problems at all.
3|Note that while this external hard drive is "compatible" with the Wii U, it does not have an independent power source and will therefore not perform very well with the Wii U. It frequently (every 20 minutes or so) loses its connection in mid-game, requiring that you restart. I have had not problem downloading gigs of data onto the hard drive but it simply does not perform when trying to play games stored on it.
5|Works great
5|Excellent tool to my office
4|I wish it was 3-4tb while keeping physical size.
2|The hard drive comes with no instructions how to remove backed up files to make space for new ones. The drive fills up quickly so without instructions it becomes useless.
5|Small and works great.
5|it work excellent, everything is ideal. Thank you
5|Great little External Hard Drive and quick delivery!
5|Easy to use
5|I love it. I had a 250G Seagate before and I still use it. This one is a terabyte. When I copy files to this backup drive, they move at the speed of light.
1|I have only had this a couple of days (4TB) but it runs very hot, I have it plugged into my laptop on my desk next to my Toshiba 2TB which does not get hot at all, I need more time to evaluate but I am expecting this to fail.
5|good
4|Good
5|very easy to use with my macbook air.... very easy to setup....
5|easy to use
5|If you need any back up storage, buy this !
5|Very compact
5|One TB model - reviewed Worked perfect out of box - net 931 GB available for actual use. The unit looks and feels like a small smartphone (without a screen). Runs perfectly quite and cool. Speed adequate - about 1 GB/minute thru a 3.0 port. I sequestered the supplied software in a separate folder labelled "bloatware" as I have little use for bundled software. I prefer to back up files/folders using system software. I periodically make a "mirror image" of my entire internal HDD using Macrium Reflect software - which, incidentally, is one of the finest free software packages on the 'net. As an addendum, I ordered the item using one day delivery to test that service - a guy pulls up in front of my house in a little sedan about 8 Pm the same day - as promised. What more can I say? Great buying experience so far
5|Great HD. This is my 3rd seagate drive and it's because I've never had an issue with them. I'm a graphic design major and so I used a lot of space. Would highly recommend to a friend. It's a little funny using on a Mac because you have to format the drive or use their software because it isn't formatted with OX Extended.
5|So much storage...????...what to do with it....i know load everything on this drive and see how long it takes to fill up.I've only filled up half of the drive...iI use can't believe it's so much storage.may look into getting even larger storage for future builds
1|The drive froze my mouse every time it ran. 3 attempts to contact Seagate tech support were met by 3 hangups by tech support. Attempts to solve the problem online led me to a maze of techno-babble that I couldn't understand. I just want to back up my computer simply, and this turned out not to be a simple solution. All the hype listed under the item sounds great, but you have to be a geek to make it actually work. I don't want to test their beta edition for them, and I don't want to go to school to learn to use it. Returned to Amazon.
4|Great product. Easy to setup
5|What a bargain for a quality drive.
1|i bought this to back up my laptop.but instead of making my laptop faster it made it lag more.
5|luxurious, lightweight, not too thick... I like it.
1|I bought one of these at best buy to replace another external drive of the same brand because that one had been corrupted somehow and the warranty had run out. So now i have had this drive for a few months and once again my data has been corrupted and my computer will not recognize it anymore. I have tried troubleshooting and my computer cant find a problem. The 2 machines simply will not talk and all i did was move it through notmal use. I was not rough on the thing at all. it seems like the slightest bump or joslte will break this. The warrenty is still on it but im considering just saying f*** it and switching to a different brand that can take everyday use. Definatly will not buy again next time i need a hard drive.
3|SO iv had it for awhile and all i can say is its okay. Pros: works like its suppose to , i havent really had any problems with the device overall. Cons: the only thing that bugs me is that the cord that connects to the ss port is pretty lose. so if i move my laptop an inch or if i move the hard drive a bit . my computer doesnt detect the hard drive anymore. maybe its just my computer ( i have an asus) . another thing is that even though its 1tb i am only allowed to use 931gb just a heads up. im not sure if this is normal or not.
5|My my my - I've finally been able to save my photos, important information and all in one little box to go back and get But CLEANED my computer up and increased the speed and made lots of room to start all over again. All my information Is in a safe place all in one small box. I can refer back to it anytime I need it and pull them off of the box put them back on the computer and turn around and put them back into the box. This is definitely increase the speed of my computer plus gives me all the room I need to add more papers plenty of space to take photos. It's like I have a brand-new computer again . I didn't have to go to the store to buy a computer - I just took everything off of mine put it onto the box, put it away in my cabinet for safekeeping and I have a new computer no extra cost except the cost of the box. Im glad I finally did this as all is working better. Recommend that if you've been thinking about doing this, you should do right away.
5|Love this drive: very small, super fast SS USB 3.0, and powered by USB. Hope it lasts over time, what a good deal!
2|I know it's working, but I still can't figure out how to retrieve my files. So, I'm using it as a physical backup while still subscribing to Carbonite online backup service, which is very dependable & user-friendly.
5|perfect
4|Works a bit different than my prior version but still a great product.
5|GOOD
4|Purchased this for my Xbox One. Didn't notice a drastic performance boost, but it is a high quality device with a crazy amount of storage.
5|Great product - Great service
5|very good unit
5|Worth the price
5|No Issues
4|not sure why but seems a little slow to me.
5|Simple and easy to use. Plug in and go. Thin but sturdy construction.
5|Easy to travel with due to its thin and smell design!
5|Great hard drive
3|I like the drive. Fast. Holds a bunch. But when used with a different computer than the original computer that I transferred everything from, it does not allow me to make changes to the files. I find this extremely frustrating. ***It has been awhile now that I've had this drive. I am not a computer whiz. I usually reformat my drives to eliminate the installed programming so that I have a simple storage device, which I did to this drive. I still cannot same many new files to this drive because I "do not have permission" to do so, nor can I save changes to many existing documents already save on the drive. *** ready to take a hammer to it.
5|I bought this drive to use it with my Media Player connected to the TV. It runs with my Media Player's low power USB ports without any problem. I saw 120 Mb/s speed while copying large video files to it. Huge capacity for a portable drive. I also bough a Lacdo Waterproof Hard EVA Shockproof Carrying Case and it fits perfectly.
4|Im very pleased with this product .it does extend the computers memory capacity and can store so much more
5|so far so good. Able to backup my Macbook Pro easily.
5|Product works as advertised. Shipping was quick.
1|Product defective after 2 months and I am getting the run around on how to return it.
5|A+
5|its small size and speed of back-up makes this drive one of my favorites so far.
5|SUPER AWESOME BUY! For real. You don't need a separate cord to plug in power. My favorite so far. For Mac users, I did have to partition it once I bought it in order to use on my MacBookPro. Good directions. SUPER EASY.
5|works well I used windows 7 to quick format it
5|Very good... Met my expectations
5|I've had this for a few months now and haven't had a single problem. I copied all my TV shows and movies to it and connect it to my TV, and it works really well.
5|Bought to use to transport large files between offices. Pro: Great data transfer rate. Nicce color. Very slim. Cons: None so far.
5|I used it in my PS4 and it works nicely.
5|My wife uses this to trade videos with friends and family members. Nice and small for easy portability. Speedy transfer with USB 3.0.
5|Good product!
5|I've not had any problems with these. I use them for storing media and what not for travel. I keep it in my Lacdo waterproof padded case and it gives me no complaints. It is SUPER skinny and I get anxiety just thinking about all the bits and bobs spinning around in there at eleventy-billion miles-per-hour but yeah, just protect it and keep it happy and life should be good. I got two and zero complaints.
5|Compact and performs well.
5|Good for backing up files. The transfer rate is good. So far, no problems.
5|I love it
1|This product completely stopped working less than a year after purchase. I didn't drop it, hit it with anything, get it wet, or do anything else that might cause it to break. It just stopped showing up when I plugged it into my computer (and yea, I tried unplugging, replugging, putting it in my second port, etc.). Extremely displeased.
5|very good.
5|Fits everything and more! With around 130mb/s read speeds on USB 3.0 port.
4|works, but instructions on how to backup multiple computers is not to be found. as far as instructions go (on seagates website), I am not computer savy so it looks like its written in the vulcan dialect.
5|It great have 4
5|Works perfect right out of the packaging, doesn't require any formatting!
5|I have needed this for a long time.
5|Small, compact and fast. Use it for backup only.
1|Bought this to use with my Mac and found it very difficult to set up. There were basically no instructions, other than to download the "dashboard" from their website and there's no information on how to use the dashboard to start putting your documents on the drive. I have had the product for about a week now and still have not been able to use it, because the dashboard does not have any directions and is not user friendly.
3|The is well built, easy to operate, and affordable priced. This is my first external Hard drive. I bought it to back up my laptop. Nice product.
5|Very Very nice so fast so good
5|Just cracked this open and slid the drive into my PS4. Everything's running great w/ 2TB's of space and i now have a 500gb external for additional storage on the PC. Backing up the PS4 data took most of the time, the actual drive switch took maybe 8 mins. Just google the process for a tutorial.
5|Nice! Use it to capture my music, No hassle or problems, Plug and go!
1|There is little automated set ups for this product with Macs. Moreover there is no chat service for support. After I gave them all my network info, which originally seemed to be the problem, it still would not accept the files I was trying to backup. No user guide and nothing online for an external drive - all is focused on their internal drives. It also didn't recognize that I had already purchased the cloud support, and so at each step I got another promo for their cloud service. Horrid experience!
5|I removed the dvd from my Toshiba L875 and installed this hard drive. Works great.
5|I am sure it will serve the purpose for which it was bought. Thanks for your service.
5|Arrived on time and works.
5|Very small and fast hard drive. So small I would actually call it "cute." :-) If it had a way to clip on the cord for storage it would be absolutely perfect.
1|I bought 2 of these and one of them doesn't work at all. I didn't realize it until I needed to use it and the return time period had expired, now I'm stuck with a paper weight.
5|I like easy set up and this Seagate is that simple plug and play. Originally purchased for computer back up then switched it use to external storage for Channel Master DVR. Fortunately I checked Channel Master before and their info actually recommended Seagate. They work well together. Every now and then even a blind squirrel finds a nut.
5|big enough
5|Great Product, Works on Mac really well. Dont know how to use the the other features though and it has a 200 gb cloud memory space so I hope I can test that out and see how it goes. I didnt expect it to be so small, but its really convenient to carry around great job on the design.
5|Very happy with this product.. i would buy it again
5|Works great and very durable. Quality product I will not hesitate to recommend to any one. Easy to set up and use.. Very reasonable in price too.
5|Good ??for Macbook pro
5|Great drive at a great price. Simple setup on Mac. Fast and reliable drive.
5|Great product. Worked as advertised.
5|Excellent product.
5|Used this to upgrade my PS4 HD and it works perfectly. The process to swap was simple as well. There are many video guides on youtube to help!
5|Works great - its fast looks great and does the job. Only ding I'd give is not against the particular hardware, but they were offering a deal on cloud storage with it. (Not why I bought it- but wanted to test it out) - Followed the instructions to set it up, and never got the additional storage. Tried to talk to them about it, and got a run around. Anyway - your mileage on that end may vary, but the hard drive it self is certainly worth the purchase.
5|Loved it. Will recommend
5|I have a few of these drives and they all work fine. I used to buy only Western Digital drives but these Seagate drives are so slim and quiet, and none failed on me, so I kind of changed my impression on Seagate and would buy these whenever I need more hard disk space. They can be formatted for Mac, in HFS+, or in ExFAT, if you want the drive to be used sometimes by a Mac and sometimes by PC.
5|Great
5|Fast and easy to use!
5|Works great as external storage, I was a little disappointed it's not actually 1TB but it's still plenty of space. I'm pleased with my purchase.
5|small and powerful !
5|Very easy to use and it fits any where on my messy desk.
1|Didn't work. Seagate representative advised me to return for full refund. Return easy.
5|Excellent love it
5|I purchased this to be used with my PS4. It worked perfectly. Took it apart in 2 seconds and threw it in my PS4.. No issues at all. Best upgrade at a fraction of the price. I would highly recommend.
5|Works great in my son's PS4.
5|Easy to use, no issue downloading files, and exactly what I needed. I have used Carbonite for a number of years. After a recent computer crash and the need to move my files to a new computer, I was having issues with Carbonite. I'm sure there is an easy fix, but I was getting frustrated having my files off site and having my entire system backed up. I didn't need this as I had to replace it with an entirely new system. Long story short, I wanted an external drive that I could put all of my data on from my phone, ipad, computer, and social media. I'm not looking to backup an entire hard drive, but I could if I wanted to. I'm just streamlining all of my files, deleting what I haven't used in years and keeping everything in one place. The only thing I can see as an issue in the future with the more media files I work on as I edit audio/visual/video files is the limited space, but again, if I've not worked on them in years, deleting them is a great option.
5|I popped this bad boy open to replace the hard drive in my PS4, it was so easy to do and took me all of 5 minutes to replace the PS4 hard drive with this one, and put the original PS4 drive into this case. I still have an external hard drive now and more storage in my PlayStation. No complaints so far after 2 months.
4|It performed exactly as expected. Great drive for a great price!
5|Excellent portable hard drive is light and very good capacity.
5|This is an excellent product, and I would recommend it. I have at least 3,000 pictures alone, not to include the other documents that I have stored, and I still have a lot of rooms. I got tired of my computers going out and not being able to retrieve documents. You don't need to purchase a computer with a large memory, because you can just use this external hard drive. It's easy to use, and you can organize your folders although I started but didn't complete. The case is nice as well, you can carry it in your purse or pocket.
5|Great for backing up your data.Simple to use, although the Seagate software gave me a fit, at first (I am still running windows 7)...
5|Exactly what I wanted.
4|this is what I need to backup for traveling
5|Excellent Portable External Storage, easy to install and use.
5|Much slimmer than my 1 TB Portable drive from Seagate. It took some time to figure out how to make it compatible with my Mac, but after that, no problems.
5|Works great
5|Good product, excellent service, would buy again.
5|Really like it - design and speed
5|So far so good. It takes a bit to load onto the desktop, but it's 4 terrabytes, so I figure it needs a little time to get it together and start working! It's small, and looks like it can take a beating. I have tried other drives, but Seagate is the one I always go back to.
4|Great, a little heavy
5|Works great
5|Great
5|good
5|amazing little drive
2|Drive is fine, But, software freezes at 5% and doesn't do a backup. Suppose to work with Windows 10, but doesn't. Blogs show this is a known problem although not acknowledged by Seagate. You can drag and drop to the drive but, that's not the way I prefer to backup my almost 1 tb of data.
5|Not going to pretend to be a techy. It does it's job for a great price. Comes standard NTFS format with I think 3.8 TB available.
5|Works perfectly.
5|We used Acronis True Image backup software to backup my girl friend's computer, and then try Windows 10 free install. Due to the slow process of installation, we went to sleep before the process completed, so the system was idle for a long time before we got the update completed. When my friend tried to use email the next morning, and called her email support, she found that a virus had been implanted on her computer while we slept, requiring that we restore from the backup, which went smoothly. Nice product.
5|I use this to back up my computer on a daily basis.
5|Works well and very easy to setup.
5|Very compact, beautiful design and works like it should.
5|Awesome!!
5|Seems to be working as promised.
4|Good
5|works, nice and slim and does what it's suppose to do. Only question is how long will it last, always had pretty good luck with Seagate. Comes with USB cable.
5|Perfect small size for throwing in a bag and a quick transfer speed. I used it as a backup for my holiday photos when going around Europe.
5|I love this design and price.
5|I received it in very good and working condition, I can backup all my data to keep safe. Beside of good functioning , I like the logo of seagate carved on the corner.. From silver side it may look like a cellphone...
5|Shipped quickly, as described, great price
5|All good
5|Great value.
5|Very nice worked as intended
1|I had this drive fail after 3 months of light use.
5|A great place to store everything that you don't want other people to see. Tip: make a folder that says Tax Stuff, throw in a few more sub folders that actually have tax stuff, and hide what you want in there because nobody on this planet has a tax fetish and ever wants to look in those folders ;-)
5|Just what i need for my ps4
5|small size, super fast, and not too expensive either.
5|So far so good
1|This is the stupidest set up I've ver seen. This is not my first external drive. Been trying to figure out how to set it up (MAC) for about half an hour and nothing ON the disk or at the Seagate "HELP" site has gotten me anywhere. The site is cryptic. Just a WARNING. One would think that clicking Set_Up.app would take you through "set-up."
4|Transfer speed is fast, but the USB port doesn't quite fit my MacBook Air. Still very good product.
4|Great product, absolutely love the slim form factor. One thing of note is that the drive does not come with drive locking / encryption like the WD series, apart from that it's quite excellent. Works seamlessly with my windows laptops, and USB 3 speeds make copying large amounts of data quite fast.
5|Goo
4|I saw a tip in another review that these Seagate "Backup Plus Slim" drives were basically the same drives as their internal laptop drive counterparts, just in an external casing. These were also selling cheaper, so I bought one, popped it out of its outer inclosure with a Philips screwdriver, and have been using it as an internal drive in my Intel NUC for months now without a hitch. No problems at all so far.
5|Slim, easy to transport and good quality.
5|Seems fine but won't really know until I need it.
5|no issues at all with OS X 10.10.4 10.10.5 or 10.11 brutally fast with the HooToo USB3 hub
5|It is a great place to save relevant and irrelevant items for your computer you have! I should know because Seagate has been my choice for external harddrives since 2008; also, it has gone above and beyond the call of duty!
2|Have been having some difficulty getting the information that I backup up to the drive to restore. It's too complicated to use. I'm not even sure if I what I put on it is there. It's not like a USB flash drive. I did not, however, try calling Seagate for help. They may be my next step.
5|Arrived on time and unit works flawlessly.
1|This product literally failed just past the 90-day warranty period. It's a P.O.S - don't buy one. If I could give 0 stars, I would.
5|It's an external hard drive, that's easy to use even for us non-tech savvy people. Has saved years and years of photos and videos. Highly recommended.
5|I love this drive. It looks great and is working well so far.
5|portable, love the design and its capacity.
5|It‘s very wonderful!
5|Love it portable and fast
5|This drive is fast, reliable, and easy to use. I set it up with multiple partitions, for backups and games, and it works perfectly on all of my computers.
2|It was broken after 2 months. My PC could not find it.
1|Bought the Seagate Backup Portable Drive to take back up my personal laptop before upgrading to windows 10. Worked OK for a few hours but then the transfer rate slowed down it tool me a couple of weeks of excruciatingly slow transfer rates to transfer 200+GB of personal data to the drive. But then when connected it back to transfer some more data it would detect the drive but hang up each time I clicked on the icon. Tried it on many computers. Same issue. Called helpdesk. Issue not resolved. In the end help desk asked me to get in touch with their data recovery team for a paid data recovery option! So first I pay for a bad drive and then pay thousands for data recovery. Are these guys serious? Never again a Seagate. Never never never! More than 10 years of family memories are stuck in that stupid drive with no back up!
5|Fast read/write and plenty of room for my needs at a great price!
5|I love these little hard drives.
5|works great
5|Seagate makes some of the best portable hard drives. This one is fast, at a great price and looks good.
5|Works as advertised, truly plug and play with auto backup even with Windows 10.
5|excellent!! thanks!
5|The drive met my expectations.
5|Product works great.
4|Delivered fast, works great. Not as fast as I had hoped, but acceptable data transfer rates.
5|No issues, have used to backup my pc, photos, music, etc. Small and portable.
5|It's difficult to write a review on an external drive until it has to be used, and this external drive was really tested today. I was experiencing problems with my new computer and the manufacturer said their last resort was to wipe the computer clean and start over. The backup from the drive uploaded and all of my documents, music, and pictures appear to be there. I am super happy with this external drive. Some of the instructions could be more clear, but it worked! I am so glad decided to purchase it when I did. Without it, I would have lost all of my data, pictures, etc .
5|I needed a portable hard drive to place all the music that I had recorded in a studio. This product made it easy for me to store it and take my music anywhere I want.
5|Fantastic portable drive. Fast booting and clean look. Highly recommend for files and pictures.
5|Great!
5|Very nice slim drive. So far so good.
5|Small and efficient. Best external hard drive I had. Much smaller than the passport ultra.
5|Great cost for the size. Slim form factor. Win win!
5|Excellent.
4|So far it works perfectly. Added programs are a pain ...
5|Amazing product. It replaced my big heavy 7 year old 300GB Maxtor drive that was starting to make funny sounds. I plugged it in, downloaded the Dashboard software, chose my settings and presto my backup was complete in 39 minutes. Then I got the Seagate Mobil App and backed up my iPhone 6. This device is smaller than my iPhone 6, so I can easily take it with me in the event of a hurricane.
4|it seems good, but not used yet.
4|It's an extremely fast USB 3.0 drive. Using it with a MacBook Pro and created two partitions. First 2GB partition is GPT for use with HFS+ for Mac Time Machine backups, second is ExFAT for use between windows and OSX operating systems. The drive does get pretty hot with use. Not sure how that will affect its overall lifespan. For temp storage and backup purposes I think this will be fine. Other have said this is actually two drives in the chassis with a RAID 0 configuration. That's fine by me because the performance is great for a rotating disk. Seagate offers software that will allow a PC to read a Mac volume and a MAC OS X computer to read an NTFS formatted disk, that's a nice touch but I passed on both of those pieces of software. You might find that appealing. I cannot comment on how well that software may or may not function.
3|Product too expensive
5|great?
4|Great but needs a way to tell when drive is being accessed.
5|Excellent
5|Small, fast and easy. Just what anyone would want. It feels more solidly built than the Toshiba one. First time dealing with a passport hard drive but it was no hassle putting it to use. Recommend!
5|cool love it
5|Would buy again
5|Exactly what I expected. Northing to complain about.
5|Solid drive, good backup software. No complaints.
4|It makes some sound when you use it and Harddisk is not perfectly fit inside its case. You can feel that it's moving when you insert usb. Otherwise hd is good.
5|Great Value for a lot of storage.
5|I love the seagate back up plus! This hard drive is amazing and the quality is outstanding! I wouldn't depend on anything else to secure my files! Great product!
5|I have quite a few of these and they are great. I had to send one in once for help and seagate was very helpful with their customer service. I tried WD once and had a terrible experience.
5|Fast, great looking, solid feeling and great price. I haven't benchmarked this bad boy. So it might have speedier competitors, but for that price and portability - I don't need better.
5|Works great and doesn't use much electricity. I love the fact that you don't need a separate power supply that most of the old external drives required.
5|I was surprised by how small this drive is! I have another Seagate external drive, and it is a behemoth compared to this one. I have been very pleased with my previous experiences with Seagate, and they did not disappoint. This drive was easy to install. The software makes it easy to use. And I love the beautiful blue exterior. Thank you Seagate!
5|the expected excellence from seagate
3|I wanted this for my Xbox one to save my games and apps to. It's listed as USB 3.0 but not to the Xbox one, it only reads as media storage. Listing needs to be changed.
5|Fantastic slim external drive by a leading manufacturer. I trust Seagate and this drive works seamlessly between my MAC and PC.
5|Gift for a family member.
5|I like the color. And 1TB storage is enough for me.
5|Was a gift , n well liked
5|A
5|Works well, no problem with shipment.
5|Just what I needed for all my storage needs.
5|as small as the WD my passport 2TB which i bought 2 years ago and it is very quite.
5|Arrived quickly and easy to set up with new Mac "Timeline" back-ups.
5|just as i expected this hard drive works perfectly, the size it's very small and thin it's even smaller than my 1 tb hard drive im loving it
5|Great, works great.
5|Works great. Love the slim design!
3|My preference would have been for a wireless backup external hard drive, however, they were quite rare on the site when I was looking, and the one or two wireless units I did find with minimum TB were quite expensive. This will work with my MacBook Pro, though not my iPad. I’ll have to shop elsewhere and watch for sales to still get a wireless unit.
5|very easy to use with a mac
4|I have two or three of these now, and more at the office. I like how thin and compact they are, and powered via USB. One issue I have had on at least two is that the case around the USB port cracks easily; I don't put them in a bag with the cable attached either, so just from normal handling on the desktop etc. Not a deal-breaker for me as they keep on ticking. Also, minor issue, the cables are a bit stiff for these; what I mean is that the drive is so light, the dog is getting wagged by the cable, so to speak. Like 'em and am here now because I'm about to buy another.
5|Highly recommended , Fast shipping as mentioned
5|Excellent drive.
1|Not durable at all. I am working with a girl that has this, and when I was trying to move some things, the drive slipped off a couch (a very low couch, honestly 1 foot off the ground). It immediately stopped working. When plugged into a computer via USB, the light will light up but computers will not recognize that anything is connected. So basically, the drive is useless. I have tried all the drivers and software from Seagate's support site for this particular device with no luck. Being a responsible person, I am working on fixing it/replacing it. Though she got the drive less than 2 years ago, the warranty is already expired. Their system isn't based on when it was purchased, but rather when it was manufactured. While I guess that isn't the most ridiculous policy, it seems not very customer-friendly (i.e. not respectful, nor appreciative). A PORTABLE drive that breaks that easily should NOT be considered portable. While the price here is favorable, I highly recommend spending a little bit more for a SOLID STATE drive if you want something that is actually portable and you can feel safe carrying it around with you. UPDATE: The girl I am working with informed me that the drive that slipped and stopped working was a replacement (via warranty) for another drive she had before. Because this drive is a replacement, it is under the original warranty which has expired (it does not receive its own warranty). I do not know the circumstances of why the original drive failed, but the fact that the replacement didn't last long is a indication that you should NOT purchase this hard drive (especially if you want to carry it around with you). Maybe THIRD time's the charm?
4|i needed a driver to make it work with USB 2 but one i figured out what i needed it worked fine. the dashboard is unnecessary
5|I have one at home and at work, both are working fine
1|I have a Seagate Backup Plus 2TB drive it worked fine about 9 months until it failed.It appears as Initio Ini-3910 on drive manager, spins up, but no white LED and can't access my data. The drive is still under warranty and I'm trying to get it replaced now. I have some important work related data on the drive that I'm concerned may be lost. I trusted the Seagate brand, now I'm concerned I shouldn't have. From the Seagate Community website, it appears that several people have experienced the same failure with 1TB and 2TB drives. So far Seagate has not posted a solution for everyone to see and use, but I'm hopeful that a solution exists because "David C" received an email from Seagate and claims he recovered most of his data. I hope they can help me too. BTW, before you can return a drive to Seagate you must download and install SeaTools drive diagnostic software on your computer to report an error code to Seagate. When I did this, SeaTools didn't recognize my drive even though on Disk Manager it appeared as Initio Ini-3910. I just recommended this drive to a friend who purchased one two days ago, I really hope I didn't give poor advice to my friend and there is some solution. I'll keep Amazon posted regarding the correction / replacement process. Seagate should replace the drive at a minimum and it would be really helpful if they would help recover the lost data. I did purchase a "Square Trade" extended warranty. If Seagate honors the manufacturer warranty I should not have to use the Square Trade warranty, but I'll keep Amazon posted on status of both. mdb 9/23/2015 Why not list solution here for all to see? I seems several people are experiencing the same problem with their Seagate USB drives, why not share the solution with all? I'm running Win 7Pro 64 Bit. Please help. Thanks. mdb ************************************************************** Update 9/25/2015 ************************************************************************ I read about others having difficulty with Seagate Tech Support and getting a drive returned so I thought I would avoid this by filing a claim with the Square Trade extended warranty. Square Trade will not honor their warranty until after manufacturer's warranty is expired. They will however reimburse shipping expenses to return to manufacturer. So I called Seagate and talked with a very helpful gentleman in Tech Support who help me troubleshoot the drive problem and then took my information to return the drive under warranty. I had several shipping options ranging from returning via USPS and UPS at ground, 2nd day, or overnight cost ranging from about $10 to $27. I opted of 2nd day at $14. When I receive the new drive in a few days, I package the old drive in the same packaging and return with prepaid shipping label included with new drive. This process was much easier than described by others. I will update if there are any problems, but not if everything goes well as I expect it will.
5|I love it
1|It worked just long enough for me to copy all my work data onto it before a cross country move, then it failed upon arrival leaving me unable to retrieve the data I needed. It will not show up as a usable device on any number of computers I have tried, including ones that it had previously worked on.
5|Great little drive. Very happy with the purchase.
5|I love it.. Thanks..
5|good
5|Definitely the go-to Hard Drive, especially if you intend to replace your PS4 Hard Drive. Easy upgrade and easy to replace.
5|Great! High product quality!
1|So this is my second seagate drive and it seemed to work great at first. Yet 1/2 a year in, all of a sudden it could not get mounted anymore and just would not do the backup. After a call to Seagate all they told me was that the drive does not support the MAC OS encryption and Case Sensitive format (maybe they should have mentioned that in the product description and why exactly would the way the data is saved on the drive (encrypted vs clear text matter to the drive??? I don't intend to leave ALL my date non-encrypted just lying around.). They also recommended me to reformat the drive (aka loose all my data....). So what good is this as a backup drive then? Luckily this is not an emergency that I need it right now, otherwise this would have been a disaster... but since that is already the second Seagate that fails me after about 6 month and no recovery options in both cases I will stay FAR FAR AWAY from them now.
5|Wonderful hard drive, exactly what I was looking for, works very well, and keeps up the USB 3.0 speeds.
5|Love this back up hard drive
5|good
5|I buy MANY MANY of these things. Don't stray from SeaGate!
5|It works great! We live in a humid environment so we keep it in a plastic bag. I like the cord that comes with it, very sturdy!
5|It is a great device and works great.
5|Ordered this based on recommendation by wirecutter.com, very satisfied so far. Nice portable size, 2TB storage. Makes it easy to have a backup routine now. Reasonable price.
4|The connection from the HDD to the cord is very loose and falls out when using it frequently
5|My one 1 TB drive was getting full so I bought this one to update my drive. Bonus is that it is 9.5mm thick so it will easily fit in my laptop and has the proper SATA interface as well. Solved all my problems and works great. I also made a youtube video to show how to safely remove it from it's exterior case. Great value and nice upgrade for my laptop.
5|Great little hard drive
1|item missed
5|As others have stated these are the perfect drives to put in your PS4 and they're less expensive than the OEM bare drive version. Opening the case isn't difficult at all, but if you want to reuse the case and put your PS4 500gb drive in it you'll want to take your time and use plastic pry tools. Formatted in the PS4 you will have 1.7GB's of free space. If you are purchasing this as an external USB drive then you will most certainly be happy with the purchase. Write speeds are sustained around 70 mbs and read speeds are slightly over 100 mbs
5|Items are easily transferred from my computer to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB External. I would buy another when I need it. Prompt delivery. We are very happy with this product and the service.
5|I've used many external HDDs at work, so I knew this would be perfect for home. It's very small, and quite sleek. It's also very easy - plug it in, copy files to it, retrieve files from it, click the "Disconnect Hardware" tray icon, unplug it. It comes with the only cable you need, though it's about 18" so you may want a longer one; it's USB 3.0, which is the same connector as normal USB on the computer end, but a little different on the device end. With the USB 3.0, it's fast. I copied all the data (pics, vids, movies, music, docs, etc) from all my lifelong HDDs from all my computers, in one night. I'm very happy to have all our old data recovered and accessible now. It's powered over the USB cable, it's great, no power cable. I already had a little soft, cushioned case, but you may consider picking up at least a cheap one to store this. It's kind of amazing, our whole family's entire lives' worth of files is backed up on this, and we still have half the HDD space left... and for this price. Technology is awesome.
5|Great value. Love the portability and size. Really love the fact that I can also backup my phone to the drive wirelessly. Plan on buying a few more for gifts. Be sure to take advantage of the free for 2 years 200gb online storage space!
5|Nice compact size and easy to use
5|Great!
5|exactly what I needed for backups.
5|very good, as expected..
5|Great!
5|great buy///huge storage
5|Good quality
4|Good looking and fast.
4|Nice size; like the color; and 1TB is perfect for the intended use. However, this is the second one I've purchased in a year due to a failure, so the jury is still out as far as long-term satisfaction.
4|worked good.
1|Doesnt stay connected to my computer long enough to load anything!
5|Just what I need for raid 1 with Raspberry
5|A great back-up
5|Works like a charm. Plenty of storage across multiple devices.
5|Great
5|love it
5|Works perfect.. bought it for my PS4.. broke it down and removed it from the case and put it in my ps4 with no problems.
5|Wow, I am really not very tech savvy, but this little device needed very little from me. After I plugged it in, it kind of mostly handled everything. Love this.
5|Awesome drive!
4|I got it and was surprised how small it was compared to my older 1TB Seagate back up plus. The only difference besides size is, you can tell the drive is working more then my 1TB maybe it's the size. So far so good, I hope to have a great experience like always. It's 1.83 TB so you know, and formatted for Mac but plug and play for PC.
5|Awesome, very small external hard drive, yet holds a lot! I bought the 2 TB red one.
2|The device is great with storage and very compact. However the connection port for the EHD is very flimsy and doesn't want to stay connected. Currently looking for another hard drive.
5|it is literally the same height as my macbook board when it's opened.. clean lines. love it.
5|Love Seagate! Perfect product for my needs. Just hoping it is as reliable as my other Seagate external drives.
5|Excelente product and price!
5|GREAT PORTABLE EXTERNAL DRIVE. Couldn't be happier with my purchase.
1|This back up works fine with my macbook pro for about a week and then it no longer is readable or writable. This is the second one that has had this problem.
5|Small, light and worked seamlessly with my new Mac Nook Pro laptop.
4|On Sale at Costco right now, same price I paid plus 500MG extra. Too bad for me.
4|Compact!!!!
5|Hooked it right up without a problem
5|I bought 4 of these because it's cheaper to pull the drives than to buy them bare (and there's an enclosure left over afterward. Forget Backblaze stats, the Momentus drives have yet to fail me (knock on wood). The usb speeds seem kinda slow but that's not a problem for me as that isn't why I bought these.
4|Does what it's supposed to do. Hasn't failed me - yet. It's technology after all.
5|I love how much slimmer it is compared to my WD external hard drives. It works well with my laptop, Blu-Ray's usb port, and Roku 3 player.
5|This is a great hard drive. Easy to use, just plug in, and it shows up as a separate drive that you can drag your files into. I couldn't ask for anything easier.
5|Two years after I purchased a Seagate 1tb hard drive, it suddenly stopped working. Thankfully I always have another backup. I immediately went onto Seagate's website, filled out a form, sent back my hard drive to them since it was still under warranty, and less than 2 weeks later this newer model arrived on my doorstep. I couldn't be more satisfied with their efficient service and the fact that they backup their product.
5|HD worked great in my PS4. Will update if I have any issues with it failing or not performing.
5|Small enough for me to carry in my purse and has a huge amount of storage. I have put a massive amount of pictures and music on here and it doesn't look I have put anything on it at all.
5|great product - slim but just big enough not to get lost
5|nice
5|Works perfectly and arrived on time! im very satisfied with this external drive.
2|Drive is ok. Enclosure runs really hot!!! Be cautious of long term usage.
5|This is a very fast drive. I keep expecting it to be slow since it basically has a laptop drive inside but I constantly get 100-115Mbps copying to the drive, which is typically slower than reading from it. Plenty of space for all my personal files I need to travel with. Also have some portable apps installed and they run very fast thanks to this drive's speed.
5|Easy to install...does everything I expected it to.
5|Excellent product.
5|The backup worked precisely as it should.
4|Does what it is supposed to do..
4|works well
5|Nice product .. low cost compared to market price. Amazon service is the best
4|It does the job.
5|Fantastic
5|This product is worth its money plus. I love how it is working out so far. I haven't had any trouble at all with it so far...all though I'm not a hard core back up queen. But I do love it for what I've used it for and I love the fact that I can carry it in my shoulder bag and then pull it out to connect to any computer that has the comparable cord. Worth your money for a back up drive!
5|sweet, small, user friendly
5|happily having more storage space!
5|This is a great external harddrive to use and store your files! It is not bulky and can even fit in my purses when I am traveling and would like to transport photos and videos onto it. It is great for people who are not as tech savy.
5|I have the older model. as well. Love them both. Small, portable, never had any issues.
5|Used to upgrade PS4. Worked with no problems. You will need to format the drive to fat32.
5|A couple of these Seagate external drive (mine are for a Mac but I think they work on both Mac and PC) have been a great way to organize and back up my photos. I'm saving a lot of space on my main computer's hard drive. I'm also using the newer higher capacity Seagate drives to back up older drives to minimize the loss if /when the older drives fail.
5|I really like how small and portable this hard drive is. I am a photographer so i pack this baby with me all the time. It has never let me down.
5|Good price. Quick delivery. Good product
5|good
5|Looks good and super fast! It's actually smaller than I thought it would be. Great buy!
5|Pretty easy to use.
4|its good. but you might get the same product in cheap price in other site
4|Works well. Easy to use.
3|Worked great at the beginning but after a year started having a lot of problems with it like it like not showing up to my laptop, it saying there was no data and several error messages. Had to purchase a different brand since I was worried my data would be lost.
5|Easy set up, very reliable. Does what it is suppose to at a good price.
5|It's small and light weight, but has a lot of space for all my pictures, videos, and documents. I also used it to back up my computer. Wonderful!
5|Used for XBox One. No problem whatsoever.
5|Does exactly what it is supposed to do. Using it with a Tablo.
5|Pulled this bad boy apart for a 2Tb to install in my laptop as a storage hard drive. So far no complaints. Recommended
5|ez pz storing no more squeezy
1|became non functional. With no moving parts, I am stuck with an ineffective paper weight
5|Perfect. Very satisfied. I do recommend.
4|so far so good.
3|I like how large the storage is. But after using for 3 months (very light use), it starts to make some sounds when plugged in (not in use). So far it hasn't given me other problems. But I'm worried that the hard drive might fail one day soon. Is this sound problem common?
5|This hard drive has functioned very well for me. I have a 128GB MacBook Pro, so space is at a premium. I use this hard drive to run a Windows 7 system via Parallels. Though it does take a while for the Windows system to boot up and get started, once going this functions well for my intended use (billing via internet). Recommended.
2|Over Seagate's confusing registration process. I've spent thirty minutes trying to setup this drive just so I could use it, and it still won't let me copy anything to it! It's useless as I am concerned....I just want a hard drive I can plug and play with NO HASSLE!!!!!
5|Work great out of box. Insufficient time to evaluate reliability.
5|Bought this external hdd to put in my ps4. It was really simple to take out of the case. I was surprised that a hdd with a case is cheaper than one without a case. So far I love having 2tb of space on my PS4. I will update this comment if anything does happen to it.
5|Exceptionally well built. Great speed and performance. Highly recommended.
5|awesome product!
5|NIceee
5|Very good
5|Setting up this backup couldn't have been easier. I have a MacBook and had zero problems backing it up. And it was far faster than I expected it to be - it said 3 hours, but it took probably half that. I've had the computer for 6 years and it was my first time backing it up. I know, I know. Bad. I love the compact size of it, and it looks really nice, too, so even if I left it out (which I don't), it's attractive sitting on the table. I've also accessed files within it easily, too. It's a relief to know that I won't lose my music if/when I get a new computer, and I won't have to resort to paying for cloud storage. Definitely recommended.
5|Great drive!
1|Have not been able to get it to work on mt imac
1|refused to format on my imac - os 10.9 when I went to seagate website, all tutorials were for windows Im returning this for several reasons: 1. It was not plugnplay on my Imac - presented a tangle of work-arounds. 2. It has "cloud" storage. The whole point of backup is the have private data safe from hackers. So common sense says, "If I have 1 or 2 TB of space, why do I need your steenking cloud?"
1|This dont function with the Samsung tv
1|I bought this drive to backup files for my photography business and for the first 9 months it was fun, but after my last backup a couple weeks ago I went to plug the drive into my computer and the computer wasn't recognizing the device. I took my computer and the drive to Best Buy and the guys at the Geek Squad plugged the drive into their computers, but it wasn't connecting there either. I called customers service who informed me that they would replace my drive, but to get the files off, that their backup drive was supposed to be protecting and backing up, it would cost me $600. Being a small business owner I don't have an extra $600 to put towards something that I paid for this thing to do. I'll be looking into other brands or online storage from now on.
5|FAST TRANFER
5|it worked well. for both systems
5|Perfect! 100% recommended!!
5|Worked great, and live the slim, sleek good quality of this product. Is perfect for traveling!
5|It is 1/4 size of my old 750GB and is so easy to keep locked up when not in use.
5|Very nice external storage devise. User friendly
4|Great and simple to use!!!
5|great price for the 2TB. seems to do the job just fine
2|Should have been easy to just "plug and play." Instead while it did work correctly as another drive on my system it could NOT install the "process" to set up automatic backup dates and times! I called Seagate and they spent a LONG period of time taking over my computer and trying to make it work but eventually THEY gave up saying it was a "system problem." I can use it, as I said, as another drive where I copy files/folders manually and periodically for backup. But it was purchased to enable me to have a way to allow this backup drive with appropriate software to automatically back up my files and it FAILED!
5|Easy to use and holds a great deal of data!
3|Decent Product, nice design, fast and USB powered. This product is adverstised as working on USB, Wi-Fi backup(for Mobile) or Cloud. First Feature USB: Very easy, fast and done. I've backed up my PC info on this. Wi-Fi Mobile App featuer: The Mobile functionality over the Wi-Fi actually reassigns the "Create Date" of the Videos you are backing up. This is a horrible feature and thus giving it a 3 star because your files are much harder now to figure out which date the file was truly created versus what the software is assigning as you back it up from the Mobile phone to your PC over the wi-fi connection (not cloud). Also the App fails frequently, while copying.. Cloud - haven't used the Cloud feature yet.
5|Excelente producto
5|works as expected. Delivered on time.
1|Super portable and very fast transfers. About the 200gb of onedrive storage is a complete scam. I followed their link to re-register and was the same thing. Now I have 2 seagate accounts and no promotion (which was one of the factors to buy the EHD). Good product, terribly bad marketing and support.
4|It really is small compared to drives I've had in the past, but it only holds 1.8 TB not the 2 TB it advertises. It comes with software to do backups, but I do not use it because then you have to make sure to attach the drive when your scheduled time to backup comes -- just easier for me to backup whenever I want by simply copying the files I need backed up from one drive to the other.
5|Excellent works great.
5|Everything ok
5|Loved it!!!
5|Took it apart and used it as an upgrade for my ps4. Cheaper than buying the 2TB drive seperate. Works great.
5|Awosome product, small, elegant and 100% windows 10 compatible. I don't use the App for backup so, I can't say anything about it.
5|Works great ... I love it stores all my session files and then some
5|Good
5|Ok buen negocio
5|Super fast shipping. Competitive price and works great.
5|Great product
4|Have been using it for months now, so far no issues to talk about, I hope it stays that way. Will report again in few months!
5|compact. I've had 9 mo.s now and now complaints
5|good
5|Was able to use it in my ps4, it worked great
4|Love it
5|I needed this for my PS4. And it works perfectly!
4|I bought this drive as a backup & data sharing device but realized that it can be used (without the external case and USB 3 connector) as an internal laptop HD. I recently obtained a 17" laptop (Sager-NP8278S) with room for multiple drives. Although it came with both a 250 GB & 500 GB SSD as well as a 1TB "Hybrid" HD I wanted more room for storing photos and thought this HD would fit the bill. Taking of the lid o this external drive is a little tricky as it is glued on and taking the top off will mostly likely cause some damage to the case. The HD itself is nicely wrapped within the case and has a USB 3 adaptor attached to the SATA connector. It's just a matter of removing the adaptor and inserting the HD into the available 2.5" slot. The drive worked perfectly in the laptop and is very quiet. Overall a decent buy since it's actually significantly cheaper than buying the drive outright and I also now have a SATA to USB 3 connector that I can use with my spare 2.5" HDs. The only down... Read more
5|Great price
5|Very fast and simple. Able to effectively back up my data, and update as the needed.
4|This was a gift for my son.
5|As expected.
4|Works great so far, its slim and sleek looks real good next to an Xbox one. Format was quick and it takes gameing like a champ.
5|The seagate hand disc is working fine and delivery time was also decent. Overall good experience with Amazon and seagate.
4|Seagate, WD and Toshiba are almost the same. Infact, none of the backup software can meet my requirement for small business.
5|Small, efficient and great value.
5|Amazing product
5|Easy to use and set up.
1|Seagate dashboard fails to detect my seagate back up hard drive!!!! how can i use the hard drive without using seagate harddrive????
5|Transferred into my PS4 with no problems.
5|I purchased this over a year ago and have been very happy with it. I use it with Time Machine to back up my iMac and my Macbook Pro. I can also drag and drop files for easy transfers. In the market for an additional drive now and will likely purchase another one. My only complaint is the sizes available. Right now the 2 TB is $84 but to upgrade to a 4 TB it will cost $170. Seems steep considering other options on the market.
5|Great
5|good!
5|So far so good. No problem using this. Nice little fast drive.
5|as expected
4|I really like that is lighter than I thought, the only problem I had with it was that I used it in Linux and suddenly I just couldn't use it there it stop working and it was showing an error anytime I connect it via USB in a Linux OS, I have to format it (in Windows) to make it work again in Linux, but apart from that is working as expected.
5|works great with my macs. It's small - and convenient -- and seems very reliable, and fairly fast, but I have not had it very long -- hope it continues to be this good . Also have very similar Seagate drives -- they work great as well. The one issue can be that the cable can come out if your not careful -- so do not hold it by the cable, always the drive itself.
5|Fast, small ,huge storage. came quick works great!
5|Very, very easy to use.....Worth every penny!!
5|works great for PS4 harddrive upgrade. just know what you are doing beforehand
4|Bought to use with my Dish Hopper, found the Hopper would not power it. It works great with my computer. Love the size.
5|Best by far!
5|?
4|Quiet,works great.Order arrived on time as promised.
4|Plenty of reviews online that confirm this is a solid hardrive--so far so good with mine.
5|So far so good! I did purchase a case because I am hard on portable hard drive.
5|I have purchased this product from Amazon and it is a great product. You can save upto 2TB of your personal or official data (if feasible) and make your life easier. We are using this product for the last couple of months and didn't faced any problems. I would recommend it to my family and friends.
1|Difficult to use. Better options out there
5|Love the hard drive use it to back up pictures taken when traveling. Worked right out of the box and keeps working.
5|As with all of my other Seagate HD's and USB's, this one meets all the requirements and standards. Portable and very well priced, great product
3|This seems like an OK hard drive, and it is amazing that you get 2 TB (more like 1.8 TB) of storage in such a small package these days. I was a bit dissapointed that there is no case whatsoever bundled with this hard drive. I own about 4 other portable external drives, and they all came with a simple padded, zippered protective case. This is my first USB 3.0 external drive, and it took about 2 hours and 10 minutes to transfer 267 GB of files (uninterrupted, in one folder) from my Dell Win 7 PC to this Seagate external drive (transfer speed was about 36 to 36.3 MB/second using USB 3.0). I honestly thought it would take a lot faster though. Is this considered a normal USB 3.0 transfer rate, or does it sound as if something is wrong with my drive? Wondering if some of you experts can comment below.
5|Excellent, delivered on estimaed time
5|Performs regular backups of any changed user files. I still perform a weekly image backup, and am very comfortable knowing my data is being backed up real-time between image sets.
2|Not as easy as it sounds I could not figure out how to use the cloud backup for instance
5|This is the third one I bought. very reliable, light and portable. It's still amazing to get so much storage on such a small drive.
5|I plugged this in and it was ready to go. It is fast and easy to use. I've used Seagate drives extensively, though not exclusively, in my information technologies career for decades now with few problems. I do not use it's backup software. I have a program that periodically backs up my hard drive to a folder on Seagate external drive/. That folder is synced to my Google Drive. This gives me a copy on my hard drive (original), a copy on my external Seagate drive, and in the cloud on my Google Drive. I can also back up data that I no longer wish to keep on my hard drive, like old photos, videos, &etc. by placing them in the synced folder on my Seagate external drive. This clears up space on my hard drive for new stuff. Even though I have a copy in the cloud, the whole strategy depends heavily on my trust in the Seagate drive.
1|First Seagate purchase and likely the last. It crashed after 4 months of use. My fault for ignoring all the other bad reviews. Bought it to back up an aging Mac. Ironically, it is now the Mac's job to back up the hard drive until I can get a replacement under warranty if I ever get through to customer service.
5|I've been using this drive for over a year. I opened it up, put it in my HP Envy m7-j120dx and I couldn't be happier. I got a 2nd one last year and use it to periodically image the internal drive, as a backup in case of failure.
5|Works great with the ps4. I changed successfully my ps4 hard drive, and it works
5|This is my 4th Seagate. I not only like their great performance, but their bright cheery colors too. This one is nice and slim too, The USB 3.0 makes copying or backing up files a breeze. Quickly done so I can get onto other projects, The color coding helps me identify what type of dat I have one each of the drives. Photos, Music, videos, downloaded software, etc. I have been able to get matching color cases for them also.
5|Good size and able to move my Lightroom catalog of 65K photos over to it easily. Works well and fast enough for Lightroom on the road.
5|Came right on time, smaller than I expected ( which is a plus). I use as my Mac Time Machine drive, it runs very quietly in the background. Would I recommend this external drive to other? Yes in a heart beat! Great product, loving it so far!
5|Just what I needed. And I do like the look.
4|Works well as a DVR storage medium which is why I bought it.
4|Adequate, fairly quick. Hasn't failed yet.
3|Very slow transfer speed
5|Works great with my MacBook Pro.
3|I have a very old computer full of pics and music that I want to get rid of, so I ordered this for data backup. I'm giving this three stars for the following reasons: 1) Set up. It's not super clear. You plug into your computer, open up the drive, and click an icon labeled "Seagate Set-up". Easy enough! That takes you to a webpage where you have a few options. Also easy. Then you register your product. Easy! Then .... you can't get back to the first page. The one that says "Backup", which is why, you know, you bought the product in the first place. Ok, close the window, click on the icon again, this time clicking "Backup". Ok, you have to download more software. Ok, downloaded. Click on installer. Now you have to reboot. Now you have to add more software and reboot again. 2) You're now set up! You launch the Desktop and click "Backup" and it starts backing up EVERYTHING. In my case, I only wanted to back up some music/pics, so I paused that, clicked on help, and found out how to select specific folders. Awesome. Except that ... you can't get out of the "Help" section. There's no "x" button, hitting escape didn't work, right clicking on the program in the task bar does nothing - I had to launch Task Manager and close it from there. 3) Ok, so now you only want to backup certain folders. You can choose from your "Computer" and ... no where else, like say, your desktop. I expanded every menu and was not able to find "Desktop" as an option, so I had to move all of my folders to "My Documents" in order for the back up to find it. 4) I don't know if it's my old computer or the drive itself, but it's been over an hour, and it's still not done. Yes, I have quite a bit of music/pics/videos which are large files, but I moved all of these files bit by bit to a new laptop via flash drive and it didn't take NEARLY as long to copy over files. (yeah - I'm a little paranoid about data. I'm also uploading everything to the cloud.) That all being said, it's compact, it's a GREAT price for a TB of storage, the blue color is cute, and you get 200gb of free cloud storage for 2 years with purchase, so that's awesome. It's just a little clunky to get started.
5|Came on time, works great! Lots of storage for a great price!
4|Easy set-up, fast ... not for Windows 10 users
5|Excellent product. Love it.
5|All I wanted was a large memory external drive that would behave like a thumbdrive which allow me to easily add, remove, and transfer files between different computers. I was extremely disappointed and about to give this a One Star rating when I first tried to use this device. I have several PCs and just one Mac that is used by my daughter. Before she left for college, she asked me if I could back up her files. While all my external drives were recognized on the Mac, we could not add any files from the Mac, could not delete anything from the drives, nor find any fixes to change this. They were read only. She could only copy files from my drives into her Mac, but not the other was around. All I found on the web were suggestions to reformat my drives to be avoid the NTFS format used by PCs. That was unacceptable. So I bought this device after challenging various sales people at stores first to verify that this would work in all my machines. The box even says "easy backup for PC, Mac, and mobile devices". But what it didn't say, and what I learned, is that you cannot freely move files in and out between different machine types right out of the box, especially Macs. I wasted all morning trying to find a solve and was about to package this up to return it and give it the lowest rating possible. But I found a solution. First, I went ahead and used the Time Machine utility to set up the drive. This is the only way I could find to reformat it into the state it needed to get to in order to transfer files from my Mac. So that problem was solved. The new problem is that by doing so, none of my PCs recognized it any longer. I took a chance by going into the Seagate support site and downloading something called Paragon Drive for Windows. As of this date, you'll find it at http://www.seagate.com/support/external-hard-drives/desktop-hard-drives/backup-plus-desk-mac/ According to the description, this driver provides read and write access for Seagate “for Mac” drives in Windows without having to reformat. The thing to remember is that your drive has to be connected when you download and install. And there is a mandatory reboot of your PC. Voila! The drive was recognized and I am now able to freely move files into and out of the drive from any of my machines, even Mac. I like it much more now. And with 2TB in a device the size of a wallet, it's very convenient. No external power cord needed. The included USB cable is all it takes. Hope this saves someone a ton of grief if trying to share this between PCs and Macs.
5|I bought two of these: One to keep at home and one to keep in my safe deposit box. I use Microsoft SyncToy (freeware) to synchronize the two drives every month or so. This way I can never lose more than a month's worth of data. I don't trust all cloud vendors to not get hacked or do something unscrupulous so making my own backups fits nicely for me. (note: I bought two different colors so I don't mix them up) The drive is small, high density, fast with USB3.0, and doesn't get too hot when using it. I would buy this again.
5|I bought two of here drives to replace my aging backup drive. I put them into a drive pool using windows so if one drive dies at some point I won't loose my data. So far they work great and I haven't had any problems.
5|I bought this hard drive specifically for Xbox 360 external storage and it works perfectly! No fuss, just format drive thru Xbox and you are good to go.
5|Very good product. Worked fine with usb 2.0. Always satisfied with Segate products.
5|Great with 4TB!
5|Let me start by saying that I have owned more than my share of external drives, and these are the best. For the money you can't go wrong. There are THREE, not two things in life we all share........not just death, taxes, but also hard drive failure! This portable model is better built than other brands and storage is cheap, I love mine. I also own two other Seagate external drives, and when they do fail, and all of 'em do at some point, I'll replace it with a Seagate.
5|Excellent light weight, slim line 2TB portable external hardrive
3|Works okay but having trouble using it on anything but USB 3, USB 2 it would not recognize and I had to go into Disk managment and dedicate a USB port for this drive. My Windows 8 has USB 3.0 and works fine, so I will not be using it as a migrating HD, too much trouble. Works as expected it should on Windows 8 Laptop with the 3.0 USB.
5|Just what I needed.
5|It's quiet, 2TB is great, it's doesn't get hot, sleek. What's not to love!
5|Perfect
5|Great Product
1|Used item for a week. A bunch of files got corrupted or just disappeared. I would not use this ever again.
1|bad drive , tried it on 3 different system and numerous USB ports and still does not work, had to return it for refund and order a different brand.
5|If you are looking for more space for your PS4 look no further! For some reason this one is cheaper than the other colors but it works just the same. Not sure how it works as a external hard drive, I'm just as well! If you need any help changing it, just YouTube "seagate drive and ps4 upgrade" and it should have an instructional video for you!
5|Great little hard drive to backup songs, pictures and videos. It's got good speed and works well and hasn't given me any issues whatsoever even with daily use. At this size it can rest on top of my PC case without getting in the way and can easily be plugged in and moved whenever needed.
5|easy to set up - looks great on my desk -
3|I got it free. It was very hard to figure it out. I did and it saves my pictures. I would not have paid more than $10 for this though
5|superb
5|Great hard drive. Slim and works perfectly with my Mac...Great deal!
5|Very handy portable drive for backing up. I specifically chose one that is powered through USB, not external electrical supply, and am not disappointed. There is no need to find or be near a wall outlet like my other older external back-up drive.
5|Stylish, slim and economical - deadly combo. I really like the metallic finish and to add onto it is the light which lits up when it is connected/on. I have been using this for a while now and have no problems whatsoever. One really cool thing about this is the software that seagate gives you to manage your backups.
5|An amazing little piece of technology, TWO Terabyte's of data holding on a device smaller than an Isaac Asimov paperback book!
5|I pretty much have this thing hooked up to my notebook every day as a way to preserve what little storage space is on the computer itself. It's super easy to use and, with an entire terabyte, will likely be storing ridiculous amounts of documents for years to come.
5|Small, lightweight, and attractive. It has worked perfectly since I received it.
5|Compact and very easy to use. No problems so far.
5|So far so good. Love the slim and sleek desifb
4|These are one of the best backup devices for a desktop computer or a laptop/mobile device. The only thing I don't like so much is when you need to restore something you have to dig through a lot of folders on the drive to find your information.
5|Bought this to replace hard drive in my PS4. This drive fits perfect in the PS4 I am glad I upgraded it, there is now so much space to save games. It is a very nice external drive. After I replaced it I put my PS4 hard drive in the external case and it works amazing. I watched https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijFCOvwd_Zo on how 2 extract the Hard drive. Was very easy to open I used my hands and it only took me bout 2mins to get it out.
5|Bought this to replace hard drive in my PS4. This drive fits perfect in the PS4 I am glad I upgraded it, there is now so much space to save games. Soooo many games!!! It is a very nice external drive, it was almost a shame to have to tear it apart. Very thin and portable, if I needed a good external drive I would definitely rebuy this product. The enclosure for this drive makes a good hiding place if you wanna stash emergency money or something. After the drive is removed of course. Anyway, I am very happy with my purchase.
5|This external harddrive has been a life saver. It's very packable and easy to use and set up. Perfect for loading up movies and tv shows to stave off boredom. Thanks Seagate for making this.
5|Great!
4|Very Good Product
5|Works as advertised. Simple, clean, quiet.
5|Very good and easy back up. Windows 10 recognized and installed the latest driver
5|Great unit and easy to follow steps to load and start using.
5|This was so easy to use. The backup of my Mac laptop was so much faster than I expected. This makes backing up so easy and works great!
5|very fast!!!!
5|This is one of the best portable hard drives I've owned. It's faster than those I previously purchased and I like the color :-) I've had it for around a year-18 months and I use it a lot. I've had no problems. It's also really small. Nice and slim.
5|Works great put this in my PS4 in place of the old 500 GB HD
3|The drive seems to work ok but not the software. Couldn't back up my iPhone.
1|Because of the reputation of the Seagate name, I was confident this would be a great purchase. I was able to get the gadget for a steal. I finally broke down and purchased this external drive so that I could safely store all of my important documents in one place. After having it less than a year, it DIED! Silly me! I am now scrambling to locate and replace all the documents lost. I need to purchase another but it will not be a Seagate product. So disappointing...
5|Outstanding product thus far. This is a well constructed, quality external hard drive. I hooked it up via usb 3.0 and the transfer rate is outstanding. The product is actually a lot more compact than it looks in the picture (big plus). I would def order this product again. Great purchase.
5|Works as expected. Fair price. Timely delivery. No problems. Would recommend.
5|Excellent Product
4|good
4|don't actually have a "review" yet. only recently received this item and so far it does what it should, so i am totally satisfied. i am more than pleased with the price and availability. so far so good. my work is backed up and it travels with me and that's what i wanted from this item
5|This is a great product very sleek and small enough to take with you. The size concerns me just a little as it can get easily misplaced. Great products and I am going to purchase 3 more for my business.
1|This is my first from Seagate, and I doubt I will be buying from them again. Since day one it has not been working as it is supposed to; random disconnects whilst r/w, causing transfers to fail. My drivers are up to date. I have tried using different connectors, different ports, computers, to no luck. I then shut off the power saving feature on the computer and the drive, but I still get the same issue. I never had to go though the same with other brands. I did my research, and the issue appears to be fairly common. I have no other choice but to buy another drive and patiently transfer my data bit by bit before sending it in. How inconvenient.
3|Lot of storage but not user friendly.
3|I got this drive for christmas in 2014, and now on September 30th, it failed. I used it to store huge files from my gopros and when I record gaming videos. It has been through alot being used about 8 hours a day. I did drop it once so that probably contributed to it failing.
5|Excelent choice, work better than I were expected.
5|WORKS AS ADVERTISED!
4|Good size, works quickly. Tends to heat up almost immediately, however. Also the cord if lost would be difficult to replace, it has a custom design. Definitely fast on transfer of files, for regular backups. Small and easy to carry.
5|Goud
5|Used for extra memory on my Xbox one. Works perfectly and multiplied my memory x4. Added bonus, it matches the Xbox one even the power light is white.
5|2nd drive ive bought...fast n quite
5|Just Awesome
4|It's for me one better's technology
4|IT IS WORKING WELL. NO COMPLAINS.
5|Awesome new tech!
5|Just what I needed and fast shipping. Thanks.
5|Great
5|Great product. Gets the job done and is everything I expected.
4|Just what I was looking for. The drive has a fairly fast transfer rate and is consistent.
5|Great backup drive. Shipped/arrive quickly
4|high capacity in a slim and quality design
1|The drive seems to be OK, but the setup software, also used for registering, fails on any of three different browsers. This is unacceptable, and a sure sign of problems to come. Unit was returned for refund two days after it arrived.
5|Good
5|Instantly recognized by Windows operating system. Has worked flawlessly. Supporting software is average.
5|Was the best purchase for my money. I have not have had an issue yet with any of the Seagates that I have bought before.
5|Excellent choice.
5|it works ok
5|Very good product for the price.
5|Great hard drive. I took this one out and put it into my Asus G751 as the second hard drive. Pretty easy, once you get the case open (which is actually a little tough as it's glued together. Marred up the case a bit doing this. Once in the laptop, it formatted without issues, and works well. Nice and quiet and no issues. I put my old HDD in the enclosure, so now I use it for file transfers.
5|I had a lighten strike which wiped out my computer. I assumed it also got my backup so I ordered a replacement. Fortunately when the computer replacement was finished it was ascertained that the back up was still humming and was able to get the info from it and onto the new computer. I did not ever open the new Seagate for the old was not affected. .
4|am happy
5|Loved the first one , I ordered a second. Fast . Reliable and will not disappoint. My son hads the other for college. USB 3.0 is as fast as you'll get if you don't have thunderbolt.
5|Works well.Was able to upload pics from my mac and download to my wifes p.c.
5|Perfect if you want quality and cheap 2TB internal drive for RAID storage. The first thing I did was take the drives out of the enclosure. What you get is a reliable Samsung drive under the hood. Works perfect for ZFS JBOD RAIDs.
5|Works like a charm. Opened it and plugged it in. Had to do some thing Pros: Everything works great! Very, very fast! Small and portable. (Size of a can of Coke or Pepsi) Cons: - I had to format and erase the drive when I plugged it in the first time because my Macbook Pro (Mid 2014) didn't recognise it. Simple fix: 1) Go to your Application folder 2) Open the Utilities folder 3) Open Disk Utility 4) Click the drive and go to the Erase tab 5) Choose Mac OS Extended (Journaled) 6) You can choose the security option, but it is really fast since there is almost nothing on it. 7) Make sure you name the drive.. - One thing I am worried about is the port that connects the drive to the computer. They have a tendency to stop working over a long period of time. If you are careful with all of your drives and put a case around it, it should limit the possibility of it failing in the far future.
1|I don't understand- this was supposed to be a great product but we had nothing but problems with two different devices we got from Seagate. It's supposed to work well with Macs but it kept locking us out even though we set it up to be Mac only. We had to return both.
5|Used the backup on my MAC. Simple, Timeline works great.
1|Purchased with Amazon Prime Same-Day delivered, and returned the next day. When you attempt to do a sustained write to the drives (for example, consolidating multiple backup drives), the drive will disconnect briefly & reconnect - which causes the write process to fail. Product is unusable as reliable external storage until firmware corrects this flaw.
5|MY PS4 HAS 2TB YASSS
1|UPDATED REVIEW: less then 6 months and it died, apparently one of the disk died left with 2tb working.... have to send in for replacement and causes me so much troubles.... please commend if you saw a spike of dead seagates...... it got a near 3.5 inch speed, and it got a true 3.5 inch capacity, less heat, no power adapter, seem like this is what we would be using today, working perfectly for a month now, and looking forward for another gold box sale to get another. got it at around 159 usd, what else could i ask for.
5|Very happy with my purchase
1|I bought this external drive in March 2015 and is not longer working and I paid $64.00 and I used the back up for only 5 months and it is not longer working. Very dissapointed
5|Works great
5|It's great to backup. It's so small and so fast. I love it!!!
4|Works as advertised, I like it.
5|Exactly what I needed. Not to mention it's small and so portable. I'm surprised at the size. I have another Seagate which is the same size storage but huge. I will definitely keep coming back to Seagate in the future.
5|This is Greeat
5|Very sturdy build, silent functioning and very nice design. Did a lot of research before purchasing and I really believe I bought the best external hard drive on the market (for what I need). I highly recommend investing in a case to go with it -- these are delicate and can wear down quickly if you don't protect them well.
4|I use this hard drive for video editing on my Macbook Pro. My laptop has an internal SSD which is exceptionally fast and makes video editing far less frustrating, but I keep all of my stock on these drives and sometimes have to edit material stored on them. I can't recommend it enough for size and speed... Be forewarned however that the way the two hard drives inside this enclosure are linked if one fails, it all fails, which increases your chance for data loss.
5|Excellent. As described. Many thanks...
2|I'm quite proficient with computers and it still took me an hour to jump through all the hoops to format, register and begin transfering to this drive. I've never experienced such a complex setup. Also, the whole '200gb' OneDrive promo is very buried once you do register your product. It's as if they don't want you to actually use THAT part of the storage package.
5|It works like it should for files and installed programs (like games and editors) and is as fast as the hard drive in my laptop.
5|Great product! Very simple setup and the back up feature with the storage management makes it very practical.
5|My second Seagate backup hard drive. Already have one for my PC. Bought this one for my wife's laptop. It arrived on time and as described.
5|Sleek and beautiful.
4|Great product which exactly meets my needs. It's the second one I purchased...one for work and one for home.
5|Very fast
5|Works for the PS4 as long as you update your system and format the hard drive on a computer first. Good deal overall.
4|Great Product
5|Arrived when they said it would. Works as desired.
5|Drive gives you plenty of storage, all of my games (15) are DL's and i haven't even touched the space.
5|I love these things. I wanted something portable, quick, and easy. They are light weight, easy to carry around (smaller than my phone essentially and I have the note 3). The 2 TBS are the way to go because they are the same size as the 1TB and still smaller than the 4.
5|Purchased a year ago. Slim durable case that transfers data quickly from my computer. No technical issues so far.
5|affordable and trustworthy not to fail
5|Product details were spot on
5|Easy to use. This is my second and love this product. Plan to buy more for my photos.
3|I had to reformat this drive and keep the auxiliary power (haven't tried without it again) plugged in to have it work reliably. Using the factory format and running on just the USB 3.0 port, everything corrupted. But now it has been cranking Gigs of data for days without a single error of any kind....
1|I/O Device Error when trying to use this unit.
5|Excellent value for the price.
3|I am not that greatest with choosing things to improve my computer and thought this would make it speed up, which it didn't, but it is saving on storage that my computer might run out of, so still having problems with speed. I found out that i need more memory is all.
5|
5|Nice size for a 2TB drive. Works great.
5|Enjoyable.
5|If your computer has USB 3, you should be using a USB 3 drive. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB is fast as hell. I moved 900MB from a 1TB drive in under four hours, and the drive didn't even get warm to the touch. It's also smaller and thinner than any other 2TB drive I've used before, and the colors are quite nice (too bad they don't have white like they do in the video). These bus-powered notebook drives are so much easier to use than the old 3.5 in drives; they mount faster, don't overheat or unmount on a whim, and they don't need a transformer block. Sure, in a year or so SSDs will make even these hard drives obsolete, but you should replace your drives every year or two anyway.
5|Awesome external back up for my daughter in college!
5|Very small, holds a lot of memory, very affordable. I use it to keep a bootable clone of my internal hard drive. My computer crashed and I was able to restore it with this drive in a few minutes.
5|I love Seagate products. Works fantastically.
1|Product failed within 2 weeks. SeaTools for Windows diagnostic software says there were problem sectors that the tool couldn't fix and recommended I use the DOS version, which clearly states that it does NOT work on external drives. Hoping to get a replacement soon. Very disappointed.
5|this works alot better that the 3 tb would buy again
4|great for the price, worried i might break it with a drop though..
4|Good deal, works great
3|Does not support USB UASP transfer mode in my OSX Yosemite. Hence performance is poorer than it can be, I wonder why it is not implemented.
5|Excellent quality. Backed up data quickly.
5|I made a video review! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nas-EBCbegM
5|Very tiny 4Tb portable drive - (2 notebook drives inside). Although they are 5400 RPM they are structured as a raid and give a speed of about 130 - so I use two of these with my Macbook Pro (2012) each connected through the USB 3.0 ports and I am able to carry a 7TB show with me.
5|Works great. A great backup drive.
5|Love how compact it is!
5|I've got about 10 of these. Some are different brands, but I like this style, flat, because I can stack them & plug them into a hub. No problems with data loss and transfer time is quick.
5|Got this for the 2TB internal HDD... 7.5mm thick, so it worked perfectly with the HDD / SSD Caddy Adapter for Lenovo W540, W541, T540, T440p (original Newmodeus caddy w/ carrying pouch) to give my Lenovo W540 2TB of additional storage.
5|its great
5|Good backup drive.
5|Great little HD.
5|A great match for my Xbox One.
5|survived a trip around the world just fine.
5|Took it apart and put it in my PS4. Works great.Saved 10 bucks I think doing it this way and put my 500gb PS4 drive back in the case to use as a portable....
4|Pro's and Cons ... Small, so it fits anywhere yet Big capacity. Awful software comes with package that is easy to delete and install something that suits your needs. (Suggestion: Go to Gizmo Freeware (http://www.techsupportalert.com/) and check out the options. Once that was settled, you forget that your PC backs itself up every other night (as per my specifications) and the North Koreans will not be able to hack into it since it is not in a cloud. Ta da ... the end.
5|Very light and slim. It was definitely an upgrade from the older Seagate Ext HDD I have. This is a comparable item to the counterpart made by WD.
4|Drive itself is good and functions as it should. However SEAGATE is advertising its new logo while shipping old inventory.. That's kinda shady
5|Easy to use and very fast for the size of this HD.
1|terrible hardrive, I had a 2 TB WD for couple of years and it works great, never had trouble transferring files. purchased this one because I need more space. 3 months in and the problems started. Most of my files are damaged, tried to save it by transferring files back to the WD but it take hours to transfer a file less than 1gb. $200+ dollars for 3 months worth of destroying files. DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT BY ANY MEANS!!!
4|works great.... no issues so far. Will add more detail.
5|Quick set up with dependable results in backing up client files, which I can then store safely off-site. With this backup device I feel more secure if anything should happen to my computer devoted to client matters.
5|Within two weeks of buying my first Slim 2TB, I bought two more. Solid construction, excellent design, and decent software package. I also have a new 2TB WD My Passport Ultra -- also a great hard drive. I see no performance difference between the Seagate and the WD; the Seagate seems to be more solidly built. Dimensionally, the Seagate is a little narrower (width), about 1cm longer, and almost half the height (thickness).
2|Thought it was a good idea carrying it with the laptop but for some reason it stopped working and laptop will not recognize it at all. Gave up and using drive from another vendor.
4|Runs REALLY hot when USB 3.0 attached. be careful of placement. provide ventilation
5|I needed a back up and this is working great so far. I bought this external hard drive on Amazon because it was cheaper than anywhere else and I expected a good product from Seagate.
2|Hello. I've just received y new Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive. I'm trying to back using the time machine from my MacBook Air but it says it needs 9 hours more to complete it (it has been working for one or two hours already). I restarted it, I changed the USB cable, and there is no difference. It starts saying it will finish the back up in two hours and then the transfer speed drops.
5|Excellent easy to use
1|I purchased this about 2 months ago. It failed this week. Won't work on any computer. Covered by warranty but you have to pay for shipping. Not good customer service, not good product.
5|This was purchased as a gift for someone. Finish matched their laptop and size held all their important work document. A year on still working well and most important the gift was much appreciated and they love it too.
5|Bought this for my Xbox 360. It works great and no problem with formatting it.
5|Works great for my need. I used it as the OS drive for an Ubuntu Server system. Note for anyone trying to install Ubuntu Server 14.04->15.04, the uas and usb-storage drivers appear to be a tad glitched in the installer isos. So no storage drivers are actually applied, the workaround for those installer isos is to add "usb-storage.quirks=0bc2:ab24:u" to the kernel switches in grub. Then the drive is mounted and available for OS installation.
5|i love this hard drive
5|This drive is so tight. Love the shape, the blue color sheen, and the weight of it is just...they've made a great product here to contest their competitors. It's lightning fast to boot!
5|Nice small size. I bought this as a backup for ALL of my family of 6's photos. Works great so far.
5|I purchased this to upgrade my PS4. It was pretty easy to do and I was able to keep the casing in good shape to house the old PS4 500GB drive.
5|I use this portable drive for creating system images on 4 pc's. Especially useful when I began upgrading to Windows 10. Also used daily for file backups.
5|works great, no complaints.
5|Does it works with Mini NVR to record CCTV Videos? and what's the difference of the colors? Red,blue,sliver and black?
5|my kids love it, thanks
5|Great quality product!!! And the size is very convenient. I'm very satisfied with this product
5|I love Seagate. I am an IT professional and have been able to depend on this product brand for many years
5|Good size. Lightweight. Nice design. Overall satisfied.
5|So far these drives have been pretty good. They're fast, reliable, and quiet. Time will tell how well they hold up. The LED illuminates when the drive is under power, but it isn't an activity light, which would be handy. They're barely larger than the hard drives they contain, and the metal case seems reasonably durable.
5|Quiet, slim, great little drive
5|Only problem was it didnt come with Mac compatability pre-downloaded so I had to download it myself to make it work on my mac. Otherwise a great product and would recommend.
4|Easy to use, works as expected.
5|simple to install, perfectly satisfactory in operation
5|I love this thing! It is easy to use, you just plug it in with your USB and you can save all your files on it. It is also very small and compact, so it is easy to carry around with you--so you always have your files, if needed. I have not even come close to running out of space--I am thankful for this device, it means that I can finally have everything stored in one spot!
5|This is a very small drive . Works well and is quiet.Comes with a cable that works perfectly.
5|Just what I needed. Very compact. Thanks.
5|This is a great backup drive and a lot of backup per dollar. I had a smaller seagate backup for years and when it finally filled up I got this 2TB drive and it just took over my backup needs (on my MacBook Pro) just fine. Hopefully I will get a few years before needing more space :•)
5|THIS PRODUCT IS GREAT!!!!!! This gives you all the memory you need, works great and is worth the money!!!!!!!
5|This is awesome I can now back up all 3 of my computers in one place!
5|Brought this external drive to back up lots of files on my computer & this is doing the job, plus some.
5|Plug and play...very simple and easy to get started. No issues after multiple backups.
5|Perfect.
5|This is exactly what was advertised, a smart buy for anyone seeking to backup files or any other documents.
5|Very fast and easy to use, light and small to carry on
5|Nice and small. Case is hard and runs cool. USB3 speeds are as advertised.
5|Great!! Thank you
5|Got it quicker than expected and it works great!
5|I have always liked Seagate, Hope it lasts longer than some of the other ones I have bought.
5|Great Product, did what it advertised.
5|Use this on my windows 7 machine at work. Super simple to install (just plug it in!). Never any issues. Own 3 of these
5|The drive connected easily on my MacBook. The color seem true to the picture but also looks better in person. The drive is compact and great for travel. I'll be purchasing another for my Mac.
5|I LOVE THIS THING! Smallest hard drive I have. I carry it with me like a USB thumb drive. It's extremely fast on USB 3.0.
5|Very compact; easily taken with you. The backup software is an excellent application that is easy to use..
4|I like it, but cannot figure out how to play iTunes from a hard drive...
3|Didn't need after all and was returned
3|Unreadable partition when using my mac.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive is simply superb for me, it's Fast,slim and handy, the build quality is good. Thanks to amazon for delivering before the due date.
4|Perfect, as planned!
5|Great
4|Running like a champ and not any issues. My only complaint is sometimes it needs both usb cords plugged in for adequate power. With only one cord it starts beeping as if to say I'm dying more juice please. When I plug in the second cord it stops beeping. Maybe it's my motherboard configuration, but I don't require hard core usage either.
5|I just wanted a decent backup. But when the app that comes with it asked if I wanted to back up all of my Facebook photos, I couldn't believe it. I'd been trying to find a way to easily and automatically back up all of those thousands of pictures for years. I clicked on the app and entered my account info, and sure enough, it went into my account and copied every photo I have taken and uploaded. Awesome. That alone made this thing worth it.
5|Gooooooooood
5|Very good,
5|very slim and very fast
5|works great and lots of storage,
5|This Seagate 1TB portable external hard drive is very sleek and compact. The performance it brings is everything that I wanted within a hard drive. No fancy extras. Just a simple hard drive that is easily placed in a pack and ready to go. One complaint, though not too important, is the USB wire length. The length is too long making the work area seem a little more cluttered. Otherwise, the hard drive alone is top notch and will purchase again once I have used up all the space.
4|Good
5|GOOD DEAL
2|This Seagate Backup Plus Slim was listed as “New”, and that’s what I paid for. It wasn’t new!!! It was used!! Has a dent in it and had someone else’s files on it!! False advertising. Buyer beware!!
5|Great. Compatible with my Macbook time machine
5|Nice slim it looks..
5|It's great. Everything is how I imagined it would be.
4|Good; works!
4|great external hard drive
5|will buy another one bigger capacity next year :)
1|Didn't work; my computer didn't recognize it. Sent it back.
5|Awesome product, great price. Very satisfied.
5|Terrific.
5|Took it out and used it in a PS4
5|Great little hard drive. Works well and is small and portable.
1|Unnecessarily complicated (MacBook user don't know about windows) it's just too much headache For something that's supposed to be simple
5|I have several portable drives that I use to back up photos and accounting data. This is well made. It works the moment you attach it your computer's usb drive.
5|Very lightweight product. It worth the money. I would recommend it for every day use.
5|ok
5|perfect 4 me
5|Love this drive, tons of space. Use it everyday in our home network for all important files. Best deal I found for 2TB.
1|This is the first review I've done because I'm so angry, do not buy this product their are many just like if that are strong and and won't fall apart and last A very long time, all of A sudden mind started to fall apart for no reason, I have no kids if never leaves mg house so it just fell apart on its own.
1|I am not one who complain but this is just my take on Seagate, I work with a lot of media products my field is photography, videography and software that take up memory. I have tried all products but for some reason Seagate I have issues. When I first start using the 4tb potable, I thought it was the best. But in 2012 I purchased the 2tb and the usb connection broke I thought is was my mishandling so I swore not to buy another but they came out with this and I couldn't resist. So I was aware of the connection and was careful. But here I am 5 months in and the same thing happened. I am very knowledgeable about building computers so I took it apart. The 2 hard drive inside are in tact but to main computer board/Chip with the RAID connection that makes 2 hard drives recognized as one the connection is broke off. to be a portable I think they should have made a much studier connection not the flimsy solder job with thin thin 5 teeth prongs. I called and asked for a replacement to no avail yet, that's were my frustrations is. What I suggest to anyone who purchased this recently is to secure the connection with tape or some king of glue so when the USB wire is moved in anyway it won't effect the connection in the port hole. If not you will find yourself buying enclosures to reconnect to 2 hard drives in that case. The thing is the piece that's broke is why we brought it in the first place to be able to have our every need with us when we are mobile? Sorry for babbling but I just wanted to let you know what happened in my case.
5|Great device.
5|Great
5|I used this to swap in a ps4. So far, so good, no problems. Great way to get a 2tb drive in a PlayStation!
5|Good Quality
5|every thing ok
5|Excellent
5|excellent
5|This 1T external hard drive is very tiny but sure holds a lot! It came ready to go and for my use I sectioned off different partitions with no problem. You can also download the software to schedule automatic backups, etc.
4|I really enjoy this hard drive. Aesthetically it is gorgeous, the brushed metal look is very clean on top and contrasts well with the sides, which are more black than the lighter gray in the picture, however I prefer this. It does come with some bloatware, some management software to handle the hard drive, but its easy to remove this and format the drive, which is what you'll want to do, as you'll most likely want to use this like you would a large flash drive. Plenty of formatting options, including exFAT32, which is nice in my opinion. Functionally, is has USB 3.0 which is quick, but unless you have 3.0 ports, it won't do much difference and thankfully like all USB 3.0 devices, it is backwards compatible with USB 2.0, which is a more ubiquitous standard. Seagate always makes good products when it comes to hard drives, and you can't go wrong purchasing this.
1|This hard drive is Mac compatible, but I do not recommend using it for Mac or Window users. This hard drive is way too susceptible to breakage because of its plastic outer covering. It's made out of cheap materials. When you're storing as much data as 2 TB, I would recommend getting a hard drive with a durable metal shell. Bottom line: don't buy this if you're storing valuable data on here.
5|perfect for mac and windows operations. I split it up 50% for each and no issues
5|Sleek look, functions well, still very stable with my data storage and have not run into any issues. I have the red one, and it looks really nice and is very light. The light indicator is a nice touch. USB cable length is appropriate length for the distance I work with at my workstation, and it plugs into the hard drive snuggly, without connection issues. Definitely worth the buy!
1|I brought this item back in March of 2015. Opened it for the first time today 8-14-15 and it is defective. I even took it to the Apple store foe verification and was told that it is a bad external hard drive. I need to return this item and receive a new one that actually works. This item cost to much ($105.00) for me not being able to return it. Thank you in advance for rectifying this problem.
4|So far so good! Had a little trouble mounting the "Dash Board" on my desktop until I realized Norton's was blocking it. Like size and fair price for storage capability.
5|This is a great drive to use in copying information to save.
2|I bought two of these drives to back up my files. I work in video editing and have to work off drives sometimes to avoid bogging down my computer. I found that these drives disconnect themselves every time my computer goes into sleep mode or is shut down, and then don't automatically reconnect when I'm using the computer. I have to plug them into a different usb slot for them to even register after they've disconnected themselves. I get error messages saying they were disconnected improperly. I don't have this issue with other drives I use. I'm worried that this will eventually corrupt my files and will most likely only keep these drives as backups, finding a different brand to use for day to day editing use. It also corrupted a few files that I know of during transfer from my old computer: a font and a wav. I don't know that I'd recommend these at all, because I'm not sure how they'll even function as just backup drives once I get around to replacing them.
5|So far it's been working just perfect
5|Simply Asesome.
5|Good backup drive at a reasonable price. I use this to back all my files up to rather than store them on line. That way I can take the drive with me when I am away from home and not worry about my data being stolen
5|good ... thanks
3|While it is great to have this size in a portable, the speed leaves much to be desired, even with the double usb boost. Lags like crazy even with a 480p video and is virtually unintelligible for 720p or 1080i.
5|This device is an absolute necessity. It should be required by law to get one with every desktop or laptop computer. The software is in the device, just plug it in and it boots from there. The simple menu-driven set-up takes minutes, no technical knowledge is needed. It's a give away for the price, and when the peace of mind it provides is factored in, it more than pays for itself in the first week. Highly recommended.
5|Beautiful design and very thin. Hoping it will last.
5|Bought these in two colors - they're great! Small and lightweight, easy to bring with you, or to hide away on the desk. I use one for storing all my digital photos and the other is a backup for the home computer. Both work great.
1|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is conceptionally and aesthetically a very attractive and potentially useful device. The affordable price makes it a bargain, but also underscores how it’s not a priority for Seagate to provide proper maintenance for this product, namely updated drivers and software. Despite being listed as compatible with Windows 10, the drive isn’t recognized by the operating system on some computers, namely desktops that originally shipped with Windows 7, and error messages abound due to “driver errors.” The date of the driver that automatically loaded is 2006 so it’s clearly outmoded. Plug and play should be rudimentary by now and Seagate isn’t properly supporting their wares. Microsoft claims this drive is compatible with Windows 10, but it’s not for many of us. Seagate technical support admitted that many people now using Windows 10 are having difficulties and are studying the situation, but so far no new drivers have been made available. Until someone steps up, this is a brick with a USB cord attached.
1|In looking for a replacement portable hard drive, I did a lot of research and found that this hard drive stood out from the crowd. It was supposed to be very fast and efficient portable drive, not particularly rugged, but for the price and with the case I got, I wasn't too worried about that being a factor. Because of the failure of my last hard drive and subsequent data loss that ensued, the number one priority on my list of needs in a new hard drive was reliability, and according to other reviews and articles written about this specific hard drive (model, year, and capacity), it was as reliable as it could be. As far as my experience with this hard drive is concerned, those reviews could not be more wrong. Upon first plugging in the hard drive, it was such a relief to have the drive just mount, and quickly I might add. However, that was basically the extent of my good experiences with this hard drive. Soon after beginning to use the drive the issues started coming. It started by OSX telling me that the drive had improperly ejected when the brand new MacBook Pro would go to sleep. I even checked that the "Put hard disks to sleep when possible" option was unchecked even though that didn't matter on my friend's machine with the same computer and the same hard drive. After that, things got worse. After only a few days of use, I started having the same terrifying issue my last hard drive experienced near the end of its life. I would plug in the drive and it would just never mount. I even checked in Disk Utility and was still unable to locate the disk. Other drives worked just fine, mounted properly the first time they were plugged in, remained mounted even if the computer went to sleep, everything was normal leading me to believe that it was the sole fault of the hard drive itself. I'm hoping that I was just the unfortunate recipient of a rare lemon in the batch of what can otherwise be considered a good hard drive, but I've yet to determine that especially according to all the other 1 star reviews out there about this hard drive failing. I'm going to try to return the drive for a replacement and hopefully that one will be up to the standards that I've heard about from others. I'm not entirely sure how the data security plan that I purchased along with this hard drive is going to work with a replacement drive though, maybe somebody from Amazon or Seagate can let me know how that's supposed to work.
5|great product
5|great portable hard drive; holds a lot of data
4|This is a great 2TB HD. The casing contains a Samsung Spinpoint 2.5in HD that is easy to remove and use as a replacement drive for the PS4. I replaced the drive in this enclosure with the 500GB that was inside my PS4 and it works perfectly! So for the price of 1 drive I actually got a larger drive in my PS4 and a portable USB 3 drive. I'm acually considering buying a second as a backup drive/media storage, as I like the casing and size of the drive. The only issue I have with this is the short USB cord isn't great for use on my desktop, but works fine for use with my laptop.
5|Excellent ! The item is smaller and thinner than I imagined. It looks like very cute.
5|I have three Seagate drives for backups and I really love them. I got an earlier version of the 1TB in black before this blue one and the USB 3.0 cords don't seem to be compatible with one another (but of course they are mixed up now) and sometimes won't mount in my laptop's port. If I exercise patience it eventually happens. It's a really cute drive, very slim and compact. I'll buy another one soon.
4|Product arrived on time and was initiated unit. It is fairly easy to work and has outstanding space to accomadate pictures and other personal items.. In my opinion - buy it!! GHR
5|Works great, easy to use, and doesn't take up much space.
4|I needed a back up drive and the Seagate is very good. Software is a minor problem, but overall this is a very good product.
5|Perfect size, easy to use!
5|Practically installed itself! No fuss. It's compact size ensures it won't be knocked around by my cat. I love it!
5|It serves its purpose.
4|It worked on my Xbox One
5|Bought this for a external hard drive for my Xbox one. Everything formatted well the 3.0 USB is running like a champ. I have no complaints. If you wanna upgrade your hard drive this is definitely a good hard drive for your system.
5|I plugged it right in, and immediately used it to back up my PC. Took a long while to back up because my computer only has USB 2.0 But that is not the drives problem. Great product, look forward to using it in the future.
1|I have bought three of the 1 TB model since May13, 2015, and two have completely failed. They were each used only once a day to back up my iMac at the end of the day. I've bought and used dozens of HDD's for the past 20+ years, and I have never experienced such a high failure rate. Since they were all used for backup, and were not encrypted, I am reluctant to return them to Amazon for credit because of privacy concerns.
5|replaced/backed-up/consolidated my older hard drives into this unit. It's been months now, haven't had any hiccups. It's plugged into my NAS and i have been accessing it on the regular. It should also consume much less power than the two 2TB drives I replaced (even though they're green drives, they required power adapters, this drive doesn't). This drive only requires the single USB 3.0 port, and my NAS happen to have a USB 3.0 port, so everything fits. The closet my NAS and this hard rive sits in does feel a little cooler.
5|always liked Seagate, and never disappointed me. Fast transfer speed for this type of hard drive, and reliable storage. Never lost anything over the years.
5|Great way to store all my video files. Upload times are decent.
5|Performed perfectly right out of the box...
5|i love this product
5|I don't really want to rate this yet because I haven't had it long enough. My rating depends on how long this HD lasts. And will Seagate replace it. I've bought MANY externals over the years- some die after 6 months- some almost immediately. Normally I prefer to purchase the Iomega brand. So far this is good- I like it a real lot! It's really handy. I don't have enough electrical outlets- so this external powered directly through the USB is VERY convenient.
4|It has a proprietary cable, which I don't like. Drive seems like it works well. It's a small form factor which is nice.
5|Price was good. Plug and play. Quick transfer rate.
5|Bought it to upgrade my ps4 worked like a charm
5|Works great
5|Great size and very quick, my favorite
1|This is my third Seagate external drive to fail on me with less than a year's use. The first was a 500GB; the 2nd was the 1TB model. I was desperate to access my lost data, so downloaded Seagate's repair tools - which are completely useless. I now have a collection of worthless, near new - apparently disposable - under 1 year-old Seagate drives. I called Seagate's Data Recovery Services for a quote. The estimate ranged from $600 (average cost) to possibly over $1,000 ($1,400 max.) - depending on the nature of the assessed damage. It's obvious that repairing drives is at least 10 times more profitable than making them. I can only conclude that Seagate has purposely designed unreliable componentry (high failure rate) into their hard drives - to fuel the services revenue of its more lucrative Data Recovery Services business. I will never purchase another Seagate brand.
5|It holds a lot of data in a relatively small space without the need for a separate power cord.
4|This is a very small, cool-looking, and well-built portable hard drive. It is probably the smallest external hard drive that I’ve come across. In terms of performance, though, it lacks nothing compared to many of its much bigger alternatives. Here are some of my impressions. **** Software **** I have mixed feelings about the included software. In general I don’t use any of the software that comes with the hard drives that I buy. I prefer to use a variety of software suits that I’ve come to know and trust over the years. However, for the sake of this review I decided to give the Seagate’s Backup Plus a try. The results have, at best been mixed. The two features that I really liked, and was able to use both on my Windows PC as well as on my Mac, are the mobile backup and the social media backup. The latter in particular came in really handy. Over the years I’ve posted tons of pictures on Facebook, and even though I have all of them locally saved, they are not easily accessible, esp... Read more
5|perfect backup for mobile, desktop and social media. Very slim and convenient
5|Hooked it up to my Apple AirPort Extreme for automatic backups and it works great!
4|Great product. Dashboard is added bonus. Wireless backup from Apple 6 plus to drive is nic too!
4|Cable fits snug, but not snug enough to not unmount the drive if it's moved just the right way. Otherwise very reliable drive!
5|The perfect little hard drive. I'd love a 6 or 8 gig version. Seagate does need to work on lowering the cost though. A little bit on the expensive side.
5|Tiny, Fast, Great little 2TB drive for lots of drive space on the go.
5|Very petite drive, solid quality as expected from Seagate. Works great with Mac/Time Machine.
5|Great product
1|Stay away from SEAGATE if my experience is anything to go by. I agree with others who wrote -- how can anyone rate this as a 5-star product. I bought an external hard drive less than a year ago and it is now malfunctioning. Technical support checked all the different options and said that it was not working and she would replace the drive. She could not give me back the money since I did not purchase through them directly. I asked about the data retrieval -- this is after all why you want a back up drive. She said that this was not under warranty and she would transfer me to the appropriate department. They told me it would cost approximately $599 to retrieve the data. I told her that was impossible since the whole drive was approximately $100. She replied that there was a difference between the drive itself and having an engineer retrieve data in a clean room. Sounds fishy to me. I am off to Office Depot to see if they agree -- but definitely want to warn people to stay away from this awful company!
5|Seagate products have been reliable to me for over 20 years in all my installations.
1|Major fail after a few months Getting replacement from Seagate was a nightmare - then, they sent a refurbished/previously used replacement.
5|This review is late, but thank you for a great product at a great price. This fullfills my expectations.
4|Recommended. Pros: Good price for a drive that works fine as a PS4 upgrade. Empty housing can then be used to take old PS4 drive, giving a 500GB external drive to use how you wish. Cons: LED light is too dim and hard to see. Frustratingly, it doesn't blink to show disk activity, instead it slowly brightens and dims which make it hard to tell if the disk is doing any activity.
5|prefect
4|I can now finally back up my hard drive.
5|I have 4 external hard drives that I use to back up my computer, all of them being Seagate USB powered. One of them started misbehaving so I looked for a replacement and I found this one. It is about half the size of the previous ones and works great with USB3 ports. I saw writing speeds reaching 150MB/s with it for very large files. Excellent!
4|Under USB 3.0, the copying speed maintains at 100 Mb/s (from internal HDD to this device). No noise. The port on the hard drive is of a large flat shape, not the traditional type (like the cellphone USB cable). The cable length is very limited. If you don't have a USB 3.0 port on the front panel, you may find difficulty to settle the hard drive. Hope the future edition can fix that issue. It's quite light.
5|Excellent
5|Very good external drive for the money. Tech support helped fix the issues with Windows so they go the five stars, too! THANKS!
2|The USB connector gets loose very fast. I thought I was unlucky when I first purchased it, but NO, they are just that flimsy. Be very careful and always detach the connector if you want it to last longer.
5|Great value. Works perfect
5|Very very slim, and performs very well. I have these older 500 gig and 1 TB external hard drives and they're like dinosaurs compared to this.
5|I use this for my Mac Pro Cylinder 2013. This USB 3.0 runs faster than the SATA does in my Quad Core
2|Just what I needed, but it came w/a HUGE mark in the metal case.
5|Works perfectly with my Macbook and my HP laptop. Very easy to format to both computers.
5|I'll admit, I bought couse it looked "cute". works great
5|Good until my daughter dropped it
4|Only about 930 GB in actual fact, plus the Cloud storage for two years. Still, a very nice and slim backup device.
2|AFTER 6 WEEKS IT FAILED
5|So far so good. It's really plug-and-play in a Windows PC and about half the width of the Seagate Backup Plus that I'm replacing so I'm especially happy about the size. Came with a bit of software but I only used the registration info. My PC does auto backup so I don't need any of the other software included. Very happy with purchase and price.
5|fastest and smallest portable hard drive for now
4|It holds my data that I love
5|Fastest USB drive I've ever used.
4|So far it's doing what I needed it for to store movies from my computer, haven't try any of the other features yet
5|Awesome
5|I have a bunch of these. They're very fast, and knock on wood no bad drives yet.
1|Backups fine. BUT it closes overtime my computer shuts down. It completely disappears and only comes back if I unplug it and replug it. was told by Seagate to buy another cord. They did not send me one! Another cord did not help[. The only thing that stops this from happening is my Kindle Fire cord. Oh, well!
5|great doing what it suppose to do
4|Use it regularly to backup DeskTop SSD. With USB 3 connection it cut the backup time to a fraction of what the HDD backup took. So far, so good.
1|Returned it, ordered wrong item.
5|Great product
4|Excellent product
5|I was surprised by the size - just slightly bigger than my iPhone 5. Excellent look and feel.
5|I absolutely love this new external backup. I wa so surprised and happy with its weigh and size particularly since I'd travel around the world with an old very heavy sea gate, which I had to leave in China.
4|It does what it says. Personally, I do not use the backup software that comes with the hard drive. No external power is required and it works excellent on my Spectre X360 laptop. I was able to perform a 40GB system image in relatively 1 hour. The drive is nice and small and could even fit in ones pocket(though I would not recommend it). My purpose was for system image and music backups. It does both of these jobs well. I am usually not a fan of vendor software but tried it for kicks. For those not so computer saavy it would to the job well. This drive also works fine on windows 10 and is formatted in NTFS.
5|Perfect.
5|I don't understand why Seagate didn't roll out this product, cute pocket size, extremely portable, light weight, great storage capacity. If I knew this product, I wouldn't buy the full size external hard disk earlier. Yes, your photos, videos, documents can be uploaded to clouds, but you still need cellphone/laptop to download it. With this 2TB hard drive, "clouds" is my plan B.
3|I bought this hard drive on 7/30/15. It works fine when connecting to my ThinkPad W530's USB 2.0 ports or USB 3.0 ports working in USB 2.0 mode but constantly dropping and reconnecting when connecting to USB 3.0 ports (USB 3.0 mode). I got Windows error even ID 11 and 51. As a result I requested a replacement and I got it today. The replaced one works very well in both USB 3.0 and 2.0 ports. I also tested the replaced one with the malfunctioning one's USB 3.0 cable, it works well too. So the issue of the malfunctioning is probably the SATA to USB3 bridge chip (since it works fine in usb 2.0 mode). The benchmark looks good (see screenshot) but the actual performance is OK: I tried to copy more than 200 GBs files from my 1st gen Seagate SSHD (ST95005620AS) and the average speed is about 58MB/s.
1|I bought this for my MacBook Air because I was running out of space. The product says that it works with Apple but it doesn't. I even called customer service three separate times and they were not able to make it work with my Mac. If you have a Mac, DO NOT buy this product.
1|I love Seagate hard drives but I don't know if I'll purchase another one since two have died this year. The first one was DOA from Staples so luckily I didn't have any files on it. But I've only purchased this one 7 months ago and now its dead too. I have a lot of important data on this hard drive and now I have to pay hundreds (if not thousands) of my money to recover my data. I've backed up quite a bit of the data but not the last couple of months. As a photographer & videographer, I put trust into Seagate to save my information because I have so many pictures and videos for customers & projects. I've worked with WD & Toshiba hard drives before but always trusted Seagate before. Not after this year.
5|it's very nice and good
5|Excelent!
5|Quick and Easy with a GREAT Price!
5|great choice. lots of memory
5|Attractive, functional, fast, sleek as hell. Yes please. I've bought a bunch of these. The only bad things about them is that they get extremely hot and I worry that it will damage the components inside the device. For this reason, I only write onto it until it gets hot and then I wait for it to cool down before writing anything more to it. That is my only complaint.
5|It looks very good and I love it.
5|Working well.
5|Very good, thin and functionality device.
4|Set up easy and works seamlessly on my Mac
4|Instructions terrible for setup otherwise v a great buy.
4|Great
5|I use this hard drive to save all of my pictures and videos and it is very easy to use! I love it's compact size and I love the color red! This was a great buy!
5|I love this little beast. It holds 2TB and is quite fast, yet it is tiny and weighs next to nothing.
5|Works like a charm.
2|Was not able to set up for auto back-up. The tech support suggested windows back-up... still failed to operate as hoped. All back up has to be domne manually file by file.
5|Exactly what I needed.
5|Very nice slim design. It also has a nice software backup support, and you will get 200GB space free for two years on One Drive upon registering it online. Worth to buy
5|This drive is attractive and easy to use.
5|Fast and slim harddisk.
5|Great hard drive to use for the Xbox One. I received this recently and once it arrived I split open the case carefully to remove the 2TB drive. Once the drive was removed from the case I inserted it into the Xbox One Collective Minds 2.5" Hard Drive Enclosure, formatted the drive to MS-DOS using my Macbook, attached the new enclosure to the side of my Xbox One and then formatted the drive via the Xbox One Console so I could store games and apps on this new drive. I titled the new hard drive the SideDrive because of how the Collective Minds Enclosure attaches to the Xbox one and I have gone from 500GB of storage to 2.5TB of storage on my Xbox One. This actually turns out to be around 2.15TB of usable space outside of the Xbox One OS and drive overhead. Regardless I now have a decent amount of room on my Xbox One so I don't have to keep uninstalling/reinstalling games, apps, etc. I would definitely recommend purchasing this drive if you are looking in the 2TB range of space to add to your Xbox One and would recommend getting the Backup Plus device as the drive itself costs $20 more than purchasing it with the Backup Plus enclosure as long as you don't mind spending 5 minutes removing it from the case provided with the Backup Plus. PS. The speed seems to be exactly the same as the internal drive itself. I have not noticed any difference in terms of game loading time, game saves, etc. Edited: I was incorrect on the amount of storage. The 2TB drive provides around 1.8TB of new storage which when combined with the 349GB of usable storage on the 500GB internal drive provides a total of 2.15TB of usable storage total.
1|I got my drive today,when I try to register it on seagate site for One Drive storage, I got to know that warrenty is already expired and didn't get any free storage as well.
5|I've been using the hard drive for three weeks now with no problems at all. It is very convenient having a hard drive that does not require a wall outlet to power on.
4|Rating this before i get i have messed with wd Toshiba and pretty much every type of hdd out there but the seagate drive particularly this one lives up to standard i have a 500gb or 1tb i dont remember hooked right into the back of my xbox one and its still ticking after 2 years of use never crashed or failed the Toshiba one i had broke in 2 weeks and the wd lasted 3 days so now im a seagate guy and i recommend yall do the same also i bought this for $80 (2tb version) so if its lower than that now buy it NOW!
5|Love this storage. Fast transfer of files and fast recall! A must have
5|Small fast and economical
5|I have been using this for an external hard drive for my xbox, after a year, it took a fall while inuse. Needless to say it broke. But it wasn't their fault, so I bought it again, it works amazing, if you want anything better go solid state, I think this is a best buy for the cost. Just don't drop it.
5|Great Product, easy to install and enough capacity for a business purposes !!! Thanks !
5|Magnifico articulo
5|Excellent
3|Love the slim size and color. I registered this product and loaded the driver as soon as I got it. This is supposed to give me 200 gigs of Onedrive Space. I don't see this. I already have 1 TB of Onedrive because of my Microsoft subscription but I don't see this added to my account even if Onedrive is showing in Dashboard. Please enlighten me. Now I have another problem. I noticed that every time I plug this to my computer, the computer freezes which now makes it unusable. Does anyone have a solution to this?
5|Yes it works wonderfully no problems at all an excellent product.
5|happy with it! slim and cool
5|great product
5|This is exactly what I was looking for. I especially love that promotion of getting an additional 200GB of OneDrive storage space free for a year. Great slim design that allows me to have it when I travel!
4|The product listing states that "After registering your drive on Seagate.com, a link will be provided to add 200GB to any new or existing OneDrive account" I registered the product but didn't get the link. Emailed Seagate support and have not heard back. Edit: rating increased to 4 stars. Was able to resolve the issue and got the 200 gb storage on one drive!!
1|If you want an external hard drive that you can just purchase and start your backups...this is NOT the one for you. What a pain to set up...the Seagate "Dashboard" offers a bunch of needless options that supposedly makes things easier....except for one small thing... BACKING UP YOUR FILES! I'll stick with LaCie...just plug it in and go.
5|EXCELENT
5|Nearly quadrupled my space for my ps4!!! My ps4 was pretty much full on memory with just a mere 500gb, so I had to constantly delete installed games for other ones. Now when I received the product I quickly opened up my ps4 (with a guide/yt video) and realized it didn;t look the same, duh. This seagate product you see is the casing so you gotta just pop it open and you will find the hardrive to be IDENTICAL to the one inside the ps4 (just with more memory of course). ALL YOU NEED IS A SCREWDRIVER (standard size). Finally, just be aware you can actually swap the ps4 one and put it in the Seagate cover (just reverse your steps). Now you can have a 500gb portable external hardrive too. Like I mentioned, be sure to watch the steps online. MOST IMPORTANTLY!!! Be sure to back up your files in your ps4 into a flashdrive (you will probably have to delete your capture files, I personally just deleted the videos and NOT trophy screenshots, unless you want to spend 8 hours to transfer it all while you sleep. AND LAST BUT NOT LEAST, when you download the new system version off the playstation site, keep in mind the initial one you see is an update file of the 2.55 to the 2.57. You need to download the FULL file of the version 2.57, not the main link (just read carefully the page). The download should be about 700mb and NOT 200mb. For the rest, just follow the directions of making a file with the name "PS4" and another file inside that file named "PS4UPDATE" with the downloaded file inside of it (then proceed). Hope this helped!
5|Great deal for the amount of space. I also love how physically tiny it is. May buy another in the future.
5|Nice and light weight.
5|Works well and set up was easy.
5|Love the drive, the packaging. Really fast... This is so good I got 2 of them.
2|It was great when I first got it last year, but it failed for the first time about two month later with only maybe 30GB out of 1TB used. I was able to repair it fine and then all was well. Last week, it failed again along with my internal hard drive leaving me without any of my data. I have so far been unsuccessful in trying to repair it. I have tried Disk Utility and DiskWarrior 5 and neither have been able to do anything. It won't mount on my Mac and is unable to be verified or repaired therefore making all of the data on it useless.
5|Slid this in my ps4 perfect choice
4|It was able to transfer information from my old hard drive quickly and efficiently. Loads in a reasonable time and the security feature is an added bonus.
5|Been using this for a year now. Its small and light, solid feel, silent and works just fine. The led indicador light is well posicioned at the top. Much better than my older lacie rikiki 1Tb that has a led indicator in the back and is a little bit more noisier and heavier. Using it with a MacBook white, late 09's. Working fine partioned in 1/4 to time machine and 3/4 free to use. Wish I had a usb3 interface to get a feel on the higher speeds. Bought me the silver and its beautiful as well. Met my expectations!
5|Rev by goid
4|Perfectly small and I love it so far.
5|This was a great buy. I bought it to upgrade the storage space of my PS4 and after I ripped the harddrive out of the case it was a simple install.
3|Product seems to be genuine, but cover for the hard disk is missing and transfer speed is not as promising as advertised.
5|Excellent product! Use it for both MAC OSX and WINDOWS and did 1TB partition for each program including TIME MACHINE BACK UP and this continue to work flawlessly!!! Transfer speed is great and no hang-ups. Hope it lasts for a while!
5|Drive works perfectly on my Mac, pretty fast. Nice compact 2T storage at a great price. I hope it lasts.
5|I have not had any problems with this drive and is great for backing up all my important files from my laptop. This is the second Backup Plus drives I have bought from Seagate and both perform flawlessly. I would not buy any other brand or larger size.
5|Second one purchased. Durable and looks good. Probably end up buying another.
5|Light, portable and sturdy! Highly recommend.
5|Works just fine, easy to use, fast and responsive. Did complete file backup inless than an hour.
2|I registered the drive at the Seagate site, received the confirmation, but no info on the cloud promotion. Finally after two days, I telephoned customer service, who transferred me to tech support (got the phone numbers via google) who had me re-register and talked me thru a very non-intuitive way to get the promotion activation. The good news - I was able to get there - though it was painful both to get to the promotion, and activate the promotion. Also, when I re-registered, the promotion appeared in the "new" registration. I don't think Seagate was prepared when they rolled out the promotion.
5|GREAT - easy to use just plug in and go...
5|This product came as described. Works great! Extremely pleased!
4|Very elegant and fast, used it to change the PS4 internal hard drive and working great till now
5|Great product Looks original Thanks
5|Have bought several of these and love them.
5|Set it up on my Xbox One and it was very simple.
4|Overall I really like the device, but it doesn't seem to function with my Mac which is why I really wanted it. Not sure if I missed that in the product description or what. But, the product is nice and has a slim profile that makes it very portable.
5|100 % Satisfied, was I expected, very fast and safe the carrier.
5|Used for upgrade of my PS4 hard drive. Worked fantastic. No complaints.
5|Product runs great so far and received it 2 days before expected delivery date so that was a plus
5|good
4|Prime day deal. The product is great. I can use it with my Mac, PC and PS3. The only bad review is that my product did not show up until 4 days later. Although the tracker displayed out for delivery for 4 days.
5|A terrific product, very reasonably priced. It arrived incredibly quickly. Great seller.
5|able to use with mac and pc without having to format if you change the type from ntfs to fat
5|good hard drive, no power plug (USB3 powered only)
5|Good value fast slim easy to use
5|Great price. First package was lost in the mail, Amazon went over and above. Thank you!
5|I like it. .. thanks
5|This is my third Backup Plus Slim product. They just work.
5|Great product.
1|My original Seagate external drive failed early in life. I cancelled my re-order of the same model , and purchased a Western Digital unit instead.
5|I used this to replace the stock hard drive in my PS4 and so far I've had no problems with it. Even replacing my stock drive was a piece of cake.
5|Small footprint and big capacity. Drive started right up and connected to my computer no problem. Used it right out of the box.
3|don't know how to see my BACKUPS.
5|good
5|I really like this drive. I use it as a place to store my picture files. I have only used the backup a couple of times, as it takes up a lot of room. I carry this drive in a case inside my computer case to keep it handy in case I need to download a lot of pictures before I have time to go thru and delete the bad ones. It saves space on my laptop, and I can weed them out at my leisure.
5|It is the best.
5|If you can dodge a wrench, you can dodge a ball. This is a simple euphemism for how easy it is for you to upgrade your PS4's hard drive using this drive. As everyone has stated, the internal drive is a samsung and the casing is just a seagate that can be used as a 500GB external hard drive once you replace it with your old PS4 hard drive. Things are even simpler to transfer your data now that 2.5 Yukimura update is out so the only thing holding you back is having another hard drive to back your data too. good luck, its so easy to do.
1|Dead on arrival.
4|I was attracted to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB external hard drive because it is eminently portable and has relatively fast transfer speeds, it is also quite reasonably priced; the only thing I would do differently in retrospect is spring for the 2TB version as it would be of greater long term value. I have had no issues to speak of with the drive: I bought it to back up my hard drive and it's perfect for that. Having said that, the Seagate Dashboard software was awkward to get set up properly; I can't address the social media functionality and file sharing capabilities as I have not used or evaluated them. The Seagate Backup Plus has been a workhorse for me and I've always been able to get my data on and off of it with minimal hassle; while I wish the software was more robust and user-friendly, I still recommend this if you need a compact and capable external hard drive.
5|Works perfectly as expected.
5|Excellent, owned it for about 10 months, no problems. Slim and light for travel.
5|great
5|Great product.
5|Pulled drive out and now have a 2TB SATA disk in my laptop
5|I'm not using this as intended. Or at least, how Seagate might have intended. I bought this to tear apart its insides and put the drive inside into my PlayStation 4 that started hurting for space for games in the digital revolution. This is a common recommendation across the internet for this exact purpose, and that's what led me here in the first place. I followed a guide that you can find through the PS4 subreddit ( on reddit.com ) at http://imgur.com/a/9giKA. It's quick and easy. Once I put the drive inside the PS4, I put the drive that used to be in the console into the enclosure. So I basically swapped the 2TB from this and the 500GB from the PS4. So for the low, low price of this awesome external hard drive, I upgraded my PS4 to 2TB of storage and got a 500GB portable external. It doesn't get a whole lot better than that unless the thing brings me Chipotle too.
5|Cool design!! Fast and convenient!!!
1|Update: I receoved my replacement ... but it appears to be used! The seal was not in place and the disc casing was npt shut completwly. Returned for refund and not buying this again. ################################# I had 2 sub 500 gigs seagate expansion and freeagent go drives which i used to back up my laptop files "occassionaly". THey are old and kind of filled up and hence ordered the 2 TB slim back up plus from seagate. Out of the box, the drive looks good and ofcourse as advertised - slim and light. After registering the product, tried to give a shot on the bundled back up software - simply disappointed. The tool was stuck at 2% for like 45 minutes. The transfer was just for a 5 gig folder. I could not find the files too. Tried drag and drop - errors out. Tried re-formatting - gets stuck at few points. I am suspecting a defective drive. But - im just not impressed. I have packed it for shipping back to amazon for refund. Looking for a simple - branded and good drive that does not come up with bundled softwares that are not as good as advertised. I can reformat it , but if i do - should i just use NTFS (FUll format - not quick) after i purchase the new one? suggestions?
5|What a bargain for 2TB, it weighs nothing and is nice and fast. I put some velcro on it and attached it to the top of my laptop, so I have a small SSD drive in the laptop and the extra 2TB almost as part of the computer.
5|Fast transfer speed. Has fallen off desk 3 times and keeps going so I would rate well for durability!
5|Good
5|work wonderful and small make it easy to carry around
5|Came as expected. It's very small which is awesome.
5|Works as advertised and is seamless with our new Channel Master DVR+.
4|Seems to be working as should
4|This is my 3rd back drive (due to failures).....I highly .....highly super highly recommend getting a protective cushioned case to keep it in. This one is fine so far.
5|Very nice product. Slim beautiful and userful. I am very satisfied with the purchase.
5|I bought this hard drive for my Wii U. I would recommend this product to anyone who wants to use a less bulky HD without an adapter. Of course you will need an additional special usb to use with the Wii U, but it's cheap and easy to find. Go to ign.com for more details.
2|Connector faulty. Tried a different connector from another Seagate slim and it worked.
5|good working
5|Works perfect
5|This thing has become my savior!
5|It is small and backs up quickly. I have not needed to restore from it but so far it exceeds my expectations.
5|Love the slim design
4|The had drive is unbelievably small and works as described.
5|Good HD
5|Like it, use it to store all my photos and videos. Don't think I will fill it up anytime soon
5|A+ Couldn't be happier!
3|I purchased this drive in order to use it with a Samsung Dvr recorder as part of a security system. I am unable to utilize it for backing up my dvr?
5|using it for back-up photo-library storage excellent, works for me
5|Using it it as a backup drive and it works great.
5|It is good
5|it's very good
1|Did one backup of my laptop. Tried to backup my phone and kept getting error messages. The "test" failed and I was directed to a website where I could return it. Very disappointed.
4|A little disappointed I found this for 10$ cheaper the very next day elsewhere.
5|I used it to replace the Hardrive in my Ps4 it works great!
4|Just got the product today, I'm not sure how long it will last lol, but it was easy to remove the hard drive out of the case and insert it in my ps4. Once inserting I had to add the 2.55 firmware to a USB to format the hard drive.
5|work great in my ps4 and
5|love
5|Easy to use and worth the price!
1|It was very difficult to figure out how to use this backup device - instructions are very poor! After one backup, it failed. The warranty replacement website expects you to sift through all of their hundreds of other products for troubleshooting instructions (I could not figure this out). If you did not save the original packaging, forget about making the return (for which you must pay shipping). Although I paid $231.07 for this device, I've decided that it's not worth it to try to return - I don't want another piece of junk like this!
1|Here is exactly what I bought: Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage & Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (STDR2000103) - Red. Seagate offers backup software called Seagate Dashboard 2.0. It is supposed to be able to back up any file that changes, one at a time, continuously. I have a Windows 8.1 based computer and I have a Windows 7 based computer. I bought a Seagate backup for the Windows 8.1 first and it works like a charm. No problems whatever. Encouraged by this, I went and bought a second Seagate drive with the same software for the Windows 7 system. What can possibly go wrong? Answer: EVERYTHING. This is now on Windows 7. I installed the Seagate Desktop 2.0 software from the media Seagate shipped. Briefly all was well. Then every 20-30 minutes my system would give me a Blue Screen of Death (BSOD). I narrowed it down that the BSOD came from Seagate Desktop 2.0. What do you do? You uninstall, right. This terrible piece of software has destroyed my Windows Installer to where I could not uninstall. Still care buying this piece of malware, be my guest. I am not done. I bought the System Recovery kit from Microsoft and I painfully restored every file, every application that had been rendered unusable by my Seagate Desktop 2.0 experience. It took days. Everything worked, except Seagate Dashboard 2.0. Days went by, my confidence gained. I learned how you can repair Windows Installer. And then I took the plunge. I installed Seagate Desktop 2.0 again. The definition of insanity is to do the same thing twice expecting the outcome to improve. Exactly what happened. BSOD every few minutes. Stopped Seagate Desktop 2.0 from running. No change. It doesn't have to run to give you a BSOD. Just having it installed with my Windows 7 was enough for BSODs. Windows Installer was toast again. I repaired Windows Installer. Phew! I uninstalled Seagate Desktop 2.0. Now there is peace. Just tell me please, why did I buy that second Seagate Backup. SEAGATE, I am now addressing you: I think you owe me an answer. Quit hiding behind your helpful videos and your user forums. Are you proud of this product? Are you really. You should not be. Have some cojones and drop me an email at peterrosenberg@ieee.org. Stop hiding and milking the portion of the market where your product works. You owe me and everyone else whose money you take a reply. So far you are just hiding. Shame on you. Tell me, tell us, how to make your software product work. You sold that to us, for money, part and parcel of the backup drive purchase. The hardware and the software was all supposed to work for us.
1|Do not buy this product everything is perfect until the Damn thing die without reason. Then to recover your valuable information will cost you over $500 usually happens couple years after you storage thousand of pictures, your life! Happened to me 3 times! I'm out! Seagate is coursed!
1|I purchased two of these drives about three months ago hoping that I could use them for different applications, photo/design/etc. Since purchasing them, both have intermittently failed to connect and one is completely dead. If I could give this product less than one star, I wouldn't hesitate to do so.
1|Bought this drive in late march. Looks real nice and loved the portability and even bought the matching case. Maybe have had for 3 months and didn't use it much at first. Looks were the only thing i could rate as good. Had planned to use it over the summer to work on some photo scanning and genealogy projects with some relatives where i'd backup the photos and docs we scanned to the drive, then when i got back home I planned to copy our work down to my main computer at home. After 2 weeks of the mobile work and i finally got home, I tried to copy the data to my machine and that's where all the love ended for this device. i started getting "corrupted folder errors when i tried to delete some empty folders i didn't need 1st. So Then i tried to copy down all the data in other folders thinking i'd reformat it to fix the issues later on. Unfortunately I never got to copy the files down as the device hung. I rebooted my computer and then I couldn't get into device anymore after that from any machine. All that would pop up is a drive letter and if you clicked on it it hung my machine. I then ran all the seagate tools the drive & all tests failed for all and their recovery tool could not repair it. So basically i lost all my work!!!! Some of the work i cannot recover as some of those relatives have passed since that provided me with the photos and documents. This is the 1st i've ever bought a seagate external drive and to have it fail so quickly is unacceptable. Especially considering the cost. I've bought many different external drives and flash drives in past 15 years and most i still have. They are bit slower then the technology out there now, but none ever failed me to this day after all that time. So i will go back to using those for now since i found them to be slow but more reliable. So if you are using these Seagate devices to backup up and recover data, don't waste your money. They are of poor quality. So disappointed. I bought 2 of these at the time i bought this one and now i think i am going to decommission the other one and backup anything on it to another Manufacturers drive that i have. Then buy a different brand before the other one fails to and lose my music collection backup.
5|So much better than my old Seagate 3TB drive. This one doesn't need a power cable, is very small and lightweight.
1|I got the product home and realized it doesn't plug into a normal USB port. I guess it has a USB 3.0 plug which should be compatible with any USB slot. I'm not sure what the connector that arrived with my package was. It certainly was not a USB 3.0. I bought a new laptop recently and cannot connect this external drive to it. I have been scouring the Earth for what should be a simple adapter but haven't had any luck. So now I have a useless product. Why don't you just make the product compatible to begin with? Follow up: I have ordered a completely different USB 3.0 chord at an additional cost of around $7. After receiving the new chord I can now use my external hard drive again. Amazon will charge me $8 to send the non working chord in for a refund, hardly worth the effort.
5|Easy to remove and install to PS4. Used the case as well for the old 500GB which was in my PS4. no problems so far.
5|This portable external hard drive is exceptional. I have used it quite a bit and it has yet to fail me. If I had to buy another one or recommend to a friend....I would most definitely recommend this one. It is a beast!
1|This did not work for my MacBook pro, so I had to return it. Such a bummer as I was really hoping it'd work as my backup for my laptop.
5|This is perfect to back up all of my embroidery designs. Easy to use. Delivered as directed.
5|nice
5|Bought this external backup for my son to use in college. He keeps everything on it. Has lots of space. Highly Recommend.
5|Bought solely for Linux installation which, by the way, is what I'm using now to write this. Later Windows...I'm on the Linux train now.
5|It is used as a portable jukebox using an adapter cable to play MP3 music files through an Audi MMI (Multi Media Interface.) in a 2015 Audi S3. The power produced by the MMI seems to be sufficient. ( I have the 1 Terabyte capacity.) Time will tell how long it will last, but so far so good.
1|It worked for a whole week. That's all. I have thousands of dollars of books on it but Seagate say they would replace the unit ($60) but it will cost me $124 for them to recover my data. I researched Seagate carefully before buying it but only for the positive attributes, researching it for the negative ones shows a whole other ball game. Seagate's customer service is beyond bad. If you buy one make sure you have your data backed up elsewhere.
5|I like these drives. I keep all data on a pair for crash protection. System drive failure or Windows reinstalling doesn't cause anxiety like the olden days
4|Good, reliable and fast.
5|Boyfriend bought it for his video game storage, and he loves it!
5|Extremely happy with my purchase. I was facing a storage problem. With this price, I bought two that enabled me to use for for back-up storage and the other like a large flash drive for work-in-progress. Nice compact size and easy to use - although I suggest looking up the correct format for a Mac as it may change over time.
5|Great seller, fast shipment, just as described, totally pleased!
5|put this hard drive in my ps4 and it works great
5|This baby is very small, light in weight and slim. I travel once a month and it is just what I needed.
5|Does it job, love it.
5|This is what I desperately needed for my xbox one. I actually am a big sony guy but my hdd ran out and now I use a lot of third party games and install on my xbox one. They were really smart in adding this functionality as I use it to store and buy xbox one games and not ps4 since sony doesnt support external hdd. It works fast and actually speed up loading time since its faster than default drive.
5|It was delivered on time and the product works very well.
5|Sleek and slim perfect for fitting in my computer bag, easy to use and control center is most helpful
5|Bought this to replace internal ps4 hard drive. The price is excellent as a bonus I can use the enclosure to put the original ps4 hard drive in, which will give me an extra external hard drive.
5|Amazing just what i needed
5|Great portable backup, lots of space, works reliably and a good price. Simplifies backing up your computer anywhere and is a convenient size and weight to be able to keep it handy and ready when needed.
1|I purchased four of these drives for use on a Mac Pro. All four suffer from intermittent data corruption problems. I have spent a week isolating the problem to these drives. I have recreated the problem on OS X Mavericks and Yosemite, on three different model Macs, on different USB cables, on different USB ports and hubs. The problem moves with the drives. I believe there is clearly a design defect in these drives. The symptom is occasional corruption of directory or other drive structure data when used for large high speed transfers (i.e. copy of 800GB). It does not occur always, but often enough that a drive will end up corrupted within a week of usage. To try to recover I use OS X disk utility to reformat the drive (with loss of all data). A new corruption will then occur again. This is the most insidious form of defect. It is possible to lose or corrupt data and not know it until later. When it occurs it is not clear whether it is due to software, the computer hardware, cables, or the drive. It took dozens of hours to isolate it to the drives.
5|Great, slim external, portable hard drive. Easy to use and application that comes with it, is easy to use.
4|:-)
5|I bought it in Target and it cost me $129.00 supposedly is 10,000 rpm and the cheaper one is 5,400 rpm for $90.00 I use it to upgrade my PS4 to 2TB wish gives you 1.77 TB and it works 100% fine even faster and better. The original hard drive of PS4 is 500 GB and 5,400 rpm in YouTube it shows you how to upgrade the PS4 to 2TB
5|Great space, easy to use, highly reliable.
5|Works great, easy to set up and activate!
5|I own four Seagate USB external drives, all of them are still working strong after several years. I don't use the backup software included on the drive so I just ignore it, no problem. This drive is fairly fast, quiet, and works without a fuss. I use it to store my photos and other files. I felt 1 or 2TB is perfect size for me, and by owning multiple drives, I have a redundancy in case something happens to one of them. You wont go wrong with this drive.
5|I used this to replace the 500gb hard drive in my ps4.
5|So far this has been a great product at a steal of a price. Not much to say other than it saved my computer when my other backup failed. Seagate always makes solid, good products.
5|Blazing fast: the fastest of my four USB 3.0 drives. Writes 5GB in well under a minute. Very thin and light, doesn't add noticeable weight to my laptop bag. Great price for a fast 2TB portable drive.
5|Very fast,runs a little warm,but very quiet.I highly reccomend
2|I've uploaded my files to the drive and I can't figure out how to view them, now.
5|Works great. Highly recommend.
5|Great hard drive, bought it to upgrade my PS4. Easy to get the drive out of the case and you can use it to put your old hard drive in.
5|This back-up drive is extremely easy to use. Windows detects it rapidly and it's ready to go with hardly any wait time. I haven't tested its read or write speeds, but I'm looking for more convention in these types of drives over performance. I have had this drive for nearly a year now and it is holding up well. For a number of months, I was using it as a storage drive for security footage that was being constantly written to it. I now use the drive for general purpose travel storage, so the minimal set up is nice, the drive and it's USB powered cord (which is about 6" long). I can't find any design flaws with it and the color is not bad, so there you have it.
3|heated when copying files
5|This was EXACTLY what I needed.
4|I is a great product. Set was easy now I just need to figure out how to use 1 TB.
5|Works as advertised. As fast as an old sata 2 ssd.
5|The product arrived quickly! It is brand new and works fabulous!
5|good
2|I don't know how to get the seagate to backup. The instructions are limited. I have yet to figure out if it works.
5|best external hard drive i eveer got
4|Works fine for my needs
5|East to set up and easy to use, no scratching your head and wondering what next.
4|The price for 1 TB on this drive is great, it work efficiently fast. I like how they embedded multiple features with cloud options but you can also opt out which is great. Length cable to small though.
5|Awesome product, Nice and slim and built well. Will buy more when I need them.
5|Works great with my MacBook Pro. I had to call Seagate and have them tell me how to program the drive for my computer, but the guy was very helpful and it only took 5 minutes.
4|I am using this as a backup drive. I chose this drive because it was advertised to be able backup continuously and keep my files in the same format. In other words this drive is synced with my data hard drive. While the drive itself works as expected, the backup feature needs much improvement. The biggest issue is that even though it is suppose to be continuous, any files that are changed does not show up on to the backup drive for 30min to 2 hours. The UI for the backup dash board is bare bones and not eloquent to the extent it takes a while to figure out the info that is being presented.
5|Love this HD. Its portable and powerful. No problems.
5|excellent product... very compact and sturdy... dropped it couple of times and still going strong... totally thinking of purchasing few more
5|Really slim and efficient storage.
5|GREAT PRODUCT WILL BUY AGAIN
3|Can't judge whether it'll last bcs just used it for about a month! However, unless I misread/misunderstood some instructions the built-in backup software is quite cumbersome, particularly its backup file system/arrangement . Don't know whether Seagate employed mostly (not quite user-friendly) hardware engineers or its software developers are not quite up to the bar!
5|I use this as a back-up for my PC in case it derps on me. I highly recommend it for the price and ease (no cables needed except the USB 3.0 to connect to PC).
5|Works great!
5|excellent store
5|Excellent drive and good value. Shipped as promised
1|I was happy with this drive, no problems, good size, easy to transport. but because the USB cable can be removed I have had A LOT of problems with the drive ejecting. any slight movement of the cable, drive, computer, anything will cause the drive to eject, which in turn causes programs to crash and data to be corrupted.
5|Fantastic drive. Replaced my Macbook pro CD/DVD drive with this and have never looked back. Almost ENDLESS storage space!
1|This seagate drive died after 2.5 months of using it. Will never buy this product again, i cannot even return it.
5|Very quick external HDD and works perfectly.
5|Great product!!! It arrived in perfect condition.
5|Nice product
1|Was working well for several months, up until it stopped mounting. Could not be repaired and files could not be recovered. This drive was properly cared for, always unmounted safely and still failed, for no apparent reason. I was using the drive moments before it stopped working. I don't plan on buying Seagate again.
5|I love this slick, sexy, well made HD.
5|was a gift
1|I just bought it from Amazon, it took almost a month to ship to me (From US to Longbeach, then Longbeach to Cambodia). What the disappointing is that, i used only for a month, never drop, i used very carefully, there not even a scratch on it!!! But then it's broken,.. there's random strange sound when i connect to my MacBook (Also other PC), my Mac and PC restart after a plug it in for a minute. It's totally new and nice slim from the outside, i really love it.. But suddenly it broken.. Why Amazon ship such a trash product..
1|The external hard drive is not backing up information. It has never really worked well. I would not recommend anyone buy it.
5|Works great, plenty of space for my computer backups
4|My boss strongly advised I get this and it's working well so far.
5|Worked like a charm.
5|Love this little guy so much so that I've suggested it to several coworkers. Several of us have this, or similar Seagate products, to backup our work computers.
5|I upgraded from a Seagate 500GB portable hard drive because it was full. I bought the original a few years ago and it worked really well. When I received this one, I was surprised by how small it was. This is a very small and compact 1TB hard drive. Not only that, but it does what I need it to do (store data), flawlessly.
5|Seagate is the only way to go with externals. They don't fail and they are reasonably priced with nice looks. No complaints here.
5|Seagate is one of my favorite producers of external hard drives. This one is their slim model and is very easy to store in your purse or in a briefcase. The silver makes the drive shine and easy to stand out in your purse/briefcase.
5|Great for xbox one
5|Perfect solution for an extended hard drive!
5|I've had the hardest time with portable external hard drives. Every other one I've used has always had major lag. It was never instantaneous, and will always need to load. I've used this one for a month now and it works beautifully. No lag whatsoever. I'm able to work on very large InDesign documents as well as edit large RAW photos seamlessly straight from the hard drive.
5|works perfectly.
4|Product seems great. Installation/setup (as Time Machine backup for Mac) was less than clear.
1|I bought this for my daughter in April. It stopped working in June. She is trying to return it but seagate has alot of things in order to return it. They want antistatic bag. We have. They want corrugated box to return. But it was shipped in regular box with bubble wrap.. But if you return it in bubble wrap warranty is void. I won't buy another seagate brand again.
4|Seems to work fine. I just haven't needed to download any of the files yet so I can't give a complete rating because I am not positive how it will perform here. So far though it has meeted my expectations and I always get a great price on Amazon.
5|Delivered as advertised.
5|Works exactly as advertised. The built in software had it backing up my data in minutes. It runs in the background and doesn't slow down anything.
4|Very good product. Easy to use. sofar I have not seen any problem
5|Works great!!!
5|Works with Mac. I'm running this non Mac hard drive on a 2006 g5 tower with 10.5. No issues.
5|Good product ????
5|Awesome book!
5|Works perfectly.
4|This is my second Seagate purchase, my first was still working but had become very slow after 7 years. This one is small and compact yet holds lots of data. Very Nice!
5|Highly recommend. Works great. Just replace 4 smaller drives.
5|Bought this to install in my new PS4 and I must say, everything went smooth. The case if opened correctly is salvageable and reusable. I now have my old PS4 drive in it, and it's hooked to my Wii U. Awesome buy as well!!
5|Good data transfer rates for notebook drive. Zero noise. No heat. Looks great.
4|Exactly what I was looking for, but now it just sits in my room
5|Very quick and great for such a small drive. Would recommend for back-up.
5|thanks
5|I took the hdd out of its case and installed it in my PS4. It was the cheaper way to go.
5|We purchased this 1TB Slim backup plus drive! Great price for this portable drive.
5|works well!
4|Love it, have had 2 others and this is the 3rd one purchased ..
5|Extremely easy to use with both my and my husband's Mac laptops. After initial use, subsequent backups are done very quickly. Love the small size.
5|It's quite great for use.
5|Very good small disk, powerful usb 3.0 with 2tb storage..
4|A little difficult to set up, but good
5|Nice brushed finish and colour. Functional portable device. Considering to purchase a few more :D Product with no issues, received as advertised.
5|great for the price! Who knew that a size like this for storage of movies and TV still wouldn't be enough?? Get product though.
5|Plugged in all the time, in a hot room, under a desk and still hasn't wavered. Going on almost 2 years strong and no signs of stopping. Great external. Works with mac and windows
5|FAST!!!! I transferred TONS of stuff from my laptop onto this in very little time! I think I have about 3000 songs and tens of thousands of pics and vids and it all transferred over in about 20-30 minutes. Very impressed. Now lets hope it lasts!
5|Great little drive this is my second one a backup for my 1st one.
5|AWESOME SPEED Y COMPATIBLITY, VERY GOOD PERFORMANCE.
3|a bit challenging to setup with my macbook pro as included instructions were not accurate. Had to good comments from other users. My boyfriend in IT figured out after about 1hour of reading.
2|I cannot find the simplest information about what to do after you have plugged the device into your computer. I have searched for manuals with no luck. Will have to return it unless some info is given me. Please help--Dr. T. Gale Thompson
5|The design is great, and the quality it's what you can expect from seagate.
5|all good
5|Happy
5|More then enough storage. Great for on the go.
5|Got this when it went on sale. Not only is it in my favorite shade of red, it's really lightweight and easy to carry and manage physically. I don't know about the durability (I have yet to drop it, but I'm avoiding that as much as possible, haha) but as for the internal workings, it's fantastic. Has a lot of space for me to store and backup my projects for school as well as photos and videos. Very easy to transfer documents and other files on my MAC. It's really great!
5|worked GREAT to replace my PS4 hdd
5|Great HD fast small and sleek!!
5|This is a great external hard drive, especially considering what you get for the price. To anyone who has had issues with the hard drive - sometimes hard drives fail, that's common everywhere, however, sometimes it's also a user error (like people who yank the USB cable out without ejecting) and there's a lot of things people can do to ruin a perfectly good drive. So, basically my advice: don't listen to the negative reviews on here, and trust the majority that say it's a great drive.
1|Died within 4 months of ownership, and I never used this a portable drive. It just sat on my desk and ran Apple Time Machine until one day it ceased to be recognized, encountered a hundred or so disk errors in Verify Disk in Disk Utility, could not be repaired, and could not be formatted. Every company deals with the occasional dud, but it the onus in on them to correct their mistake, however warranty return procedure requires me to pay return shipping out of pocket, come up with anti-static packing materials, and recommends you use a data recovery company out of pocket if you care about the data. Instant negative review. I'm also not a fan of the cable design. On first glance, it looks like USB micro, but it's actually just some random, non-standard connection plug.
1|Did not get right item
5|Fits in my safety boxy perfectly
1|This is the WORST drive I have ever purchased. It broke within 3 days and didn't come with any cloud storage. Seagate is a HORRIBLE brand. STAY AWAY and DO NOT purchase Seagate products. Now I have to figure out how to return this piece of garbage. Thanks & have a good day!
5|Great item. Great price.
5|Plug and play - was able to use straight out of the box. Takes up very little space. Free Dashboard application makes transferring and organizing files very very fast and easy.
5|Works well.
5|this has come in very handy i would back up on a daily basis but now i back up as often as i can so i don't loose anything when the lights go out
5|Exactly as I expected.I love it.
5|Let me start with I have had a 1 TB Go Flex for 4 years with no issues. With the 2 TB I do not get all of the bells and whistles due to the fact that my computer is a dated Window Vista so I can not take advantage of the 3.0 USB that this model comes with. Copied 270 GB from my 1 TB to the new 2 TB when it came in this was just a quick copy and paste of several files all at once and took about 3 hours to complete. Since then copying only 1 movie at a time the transfer rate runs anywhere from 18 mb/ps to 25 mb/ps. Very happy at this time it has been a little over 2 months no issues and only 1.2 TB left of free space left. All ready saving for my next purchase of a 5 TB.
5|Use this for File History drive on Windows 8 laptop. Works great.
5|Opened and installed in PS4, works great. Put the old one back in this case. Of course a warning that doing so voids the warranty.
1|Complete garbage. The drive does not work after a few weeks, with the drive making a high pitched squealing sound that might indicate a problem with power. I thought avoiding the Seagate brand for a few years might actually allow them to address the quality control issues, but it appears that they're the same Seagate that we know and avoid. This is the last Seagate (Samsung/Conner/Maxtor) drive that I will knowingly buy.
5|This was exactly what it was supposed to be. I already have one and needed another. Good stuff!
1|UPDATE 2 - Exactly a week after original delivery After the second response from Seagate as a direct comment here, I have finally after week of frustration found what I needed. To Amazon and Seagate - You guys are reputed companies that I always respected - I did not expect this from you! But, I am happy the situation was finally resolved. That was expected from you. For all who had the same issue: ****** USE THE LINK GIVEN BY SEAGATE IN WINDOWS EXPLORER ******* I tried on Chrome and Firefox and got nowhere real fast, I got a Eureka moment and went over to Explorer and Bam!!! Done UPDATE 1 The response I got from Seagate: "I understand that your external drive did not come with the 200GB of storage with OneDrive. Unfortunately, the external drive that you received from Amazon was manufactured before the 200GB storage with OneDrive was introduced. The new Cloud storage was introduced at the beginning of the year. I would recommend contacting Amazon if you wish to exchange the drive. " I don't seem to have a way to contact Amazon other than an option to return the drive and I do not want to return the drive as I have backed up work on it but just need OneDrive access that was advertised as a part of the sale!! THIS IS CRAZY!!! Original Review: This review is being posted due to my frustration that I bought this unit after considering many brands SPECIFICALLY due to the new offer of 200GB on OneDrive for 2 years. This is shown on Amazon and is shown on the Saegate website! I got delivery on Friday as I planned to work backing up my data over the weekend as I finally had a break in my heavy schedule. The Drive got to me on time but there was no information whatsoever about how I get access to the 200GB on OneDrive. After I registered the drive I got an email from Seagate that gave me free access to Nero Cloud for one year and less space!!! I consider Amazon and Seagate reputed companies and expect them to rectify this ASAP as this is false advertising, frustrating and a waste of time worthy of smaller newer or unheard of companies, did not expect this from Amazon or Seagate!! I will update this review once I hear back from either company with a resolution
4|very nice,NOT BAD
5|good!
5|good!!
5|Just what I needed. Portable as well.
1|Did not work out of the box, replacement was quick to arrive but I have lost confidence in the product.
5|ork like they said would
5|works great
5|Worked perfectly
5|I have about ten of these now and they are great; quiet, fast, and reliable. Only one of the ten has had a faulty cord - the rest have had no issues. I always have to reformat these to use with my Apple Macbook Pro (just google Seagate external drive macbook and you will find easy directions to do this; the Apple store can also probably help with this). Make sure to create folders if you are transferring photos and files to this; you don't want to accidentally overwrite items with the same name! This drive is SMALL, portable, lightweight, and doesn't need to be plugged in. I am a professional photographer and backup all of my photos on these drives. I take it with me everywhere because it is about the size of my hand. I use this with my computer on the plane, in the car, on vacation, and at home; I can use it sitting at my desk, or relaxing in my lay-z-boy. I just love the portability. Great drive!
1|This thing died on me while I was traveling and needed it the most. Do not buy!
2|The prices and delivery were excellent. Quality's excellent, too. But I didn't get the exact hard drive I want because the advertisement is not refer to the product I received. Mine is the old version of 2014, which is a bit different from the new one: it doesn't have 200GB of cloud storage. So if you mind it, don't buy it!
5|Good product. Thank you
4|Gives 3.63 GB of free space. Only drawback that I can see is that there is virtually no real physical protection for it. One drop and there goes your very expensive filing cabinet. The RAID 0 config gives others cause for concern but I feel no need to worry about it. Besides it improves data transfer speeds. The cable is about 0.3 meters in length which works perfectly for me. As mentioned in the description no power adapter is needed for it - a huge advantage in my city where power outages are frequent and unpredictable. Overall one of the best purchases I ever made!
4|Worked well from the first time. Too much bloatware with it. Do we really need a 95 Meg application to back up some files? I uninstalled the software and am using it manually.
5|Great, small and powered by USB.
5|Great hard disk, really slim e quite fast. It is quite as well! :) I was thinking about this one or the WD ultra 2Tb, but I got one of them so I decided to buy this one, It great. I was expecting something more from the case and material but it is all right anyway!
5|Excellent HDD
5|So far has worked great. Hope it lasts for a long time.
4|Fast for portable storage (external) and comes close to SATA 2 performance.
5|I've had this for about a year now and have not had any problems with it. I'm a freelance graphic designer and use this to move and backup large files all the time. It's pretty fast, even on an older mac that doesn't have USB3 capabilities (2.53 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo, 8GB RAM) and feels almost instant on anything newer. I did have to format it to work with my mac but that literally took less than 30 seconds after some quick googling. I can't comment on any of their included software as I've never been a fan of any additional software on external hard drives but if you're looking for a small and light yet durable and quick external drive, this fits the bill. I'm actually amazed at how tiny this thing is for holding 2TB. If my review helped you, please hit the "helpful" button below:
4|It's not bad, and works well.I will be come back buy more.
5|Great for mobile backup, easy to setup and use.
5|Does a good job.
5|nice
5|It works seemlessly between my PC and Mac. Very quick. No complaints.
5|I bought this to upgrade my PS4's hard drive. I saw some other reviews saying it works in the PS4, and it does. It's real easy you just slide the top cover of the external driver off which reveals the hard drive be careful but simply pop the hard drive from the enclosure take the old one out of your PS4 put this one in. You need to get an update file and put it on USB flash drive. http://imgur.com/a/9giKA <---- this is a great guide if you need any help and it's what I used very simple to follow and you'll have a ton of space once you're done.
5|This is my first portable hard drive, and I haven't had any problems with it yet. It needed to be reformatted to work with my PS3, but once that was done, it was compatible and I was able to transfer movies and anime to it to watch via my PS3. I have so much space on it! It's amazing, and I love the red, shiny color. It dents easily though, so don't drop anything on it like I did. The small dent has not affected its performance though. I recommend it.
3|good
5|Excellent product. It freed up my heavily picture burdened laptop. I was able to transfer over 200 gb of photos and videos effortlessly.
5|I was replacing an old stand alone hard drive used for back up and this one stood out in reviews. It has proven itself to be all I hoped.
5|Wow Nice size and performance.
5|It's small and holds a lot. I'm very happy with this
5|Perfect price and extremely small footprint! Nice deal!
1|I was promised 200GB of Cloud Storage space with this drive and it didn't come with it. Nice advertising there guys!
4|Great sturdy product. Very satisfied with the product and the service.
5|great product ... exceeds expectations
5|Great!
2|I bought this drive due to the transfer speed it claim to be better than WD thunderbolt drive. and, im a windows 7 user. Apparently it is not all for what it claims. First, during my usage on my desktop i always need the dual usb head cable (1 for transfer and 1 for power) in order to download my stuffs from the this drive. Else, it will hang and the drive will be lost in the middle of the transfer. so its quite troublesome. Second, the writing speed is kind of slow. I run a test and copy a 8gb mp4 files. the transfer speed is between 65-85mb/s and it is far below 220mb/s. Third, when I want to back up around 3TB files into this drive. and after around 10 mins of transfer it generate the heat where I simply cant put it on my palm. it is way too hot. This portable drive have the heat issue and I am very worry that it might goes wrong before the warranty expire and need not to mention if I using this drive for backup my files. Sadly, this may not be the solution for long term backup.
5|Like it. Small and fast.
5|I decided on this hard drive after almost buying a specialty 'picture sorting' device. The price was the same as the Seagate but the space was NOWHERE near. I was able to back up thousands of photos from my computer and still have barely made a dent in the storage space on this thing. It was really easy to use, this coming from technology's 'village idiot'. I pretty much plugged it in and that was it. I love the compact size, easy to throw in my bag if I want to take it somewhere to print photos or share with family. Highly recommend!
5|excellent product
4|Good
5|Works great as my 2nd internal hard drive for my laptop the tear down is simple and gave me the extra space i needed.
5|I don't know why anyone would not have one of these! You get 2TB and for only $89 Wow. After backing up photos, music, documents from my computers I plugged it into my Netgear router and now I can access all the file from any computer on the network.
5|Wonderfull piece of Art! i would have sex with it if i can! i adore the drive! Slimmer than what it look in photos 120mb writing 125 mb reading
5|great price removed hard drive to use in my ps4 works great.
5|Great!
5|Awesome buy works great with my 360 luv it.great price recommended for everyone.
5|As listed
5|This portable hard drive has met all of my expectations thus far. Even though it is a standard hard drive it is able to sustain read and write speeds upward of 117 mb/s under real world use. The 2TB size in such a small form factor is a amazing, and the drive is even power efficient enough to be run off of my phone.
5|I am giving it a 5 of 5 simply because it was a good value at the price I got it at about $30 cheaper than I saw at a brick and mortar store. I really do not think it is different than any other USB 3.0 capable external hard drive and I doubt it will change my life in a meaningful way.
5|I really like seagate hard drives!
3|This seems to be a good product, but trying to set it up with my Mac was such a headache. I did not find it easy to put files on, and had to google directions and an additional program in order for it to work. If I would buy another one, I would do more research to find out the compatibility options for Mac.
5|Great drive. Small and large capacity!
1|First external HDD I've ever had to replace. Died the day after the 30 day return period.
5|Great!
4|The top face of the drive had scratch running whole length
1|I should listened other buyer's advises in here, this hard drive have failed to many of them. I though it might just who was not lucky bought a defeated one, but it happened to me too! After I bought the hard drive in B&H, I traveled to west, visited many national parks and shot ton of photos. Transferred photos to the drive had no problem during the trip, but when I got home, the drive starts blinking and my computer won't recognize it. I searched online try to solve the problem, but no matter how I do it, such as manufacture's website suggested, also changed a new USB cable, it just doesn't work. Now all my photos are stuck in there and I couldn't get them out. I don't know what to do, even it is still within 3 months of purchase and should be under warranty, what a about my hard work photos? I heard of it to retrieve the data from a hard drive by a professional, you have to spend at least $500. Guys, just don't buy this one! Otherwise your hard work could be ruined!
5|Love this!
5|Great to expand the Xbox, have plenty of room for more games now!
5|I have been using this external HDD on my Xbox One for months now and I have absolutely no complaints. It's fast, tiny and affordable. A great quality product from Seagate that I would and have highly recommended.
5|I enjoyed having this external drive.
5|hoping it lasts longer than my laptop!
5|Super easy setup for a MacBook Pro Late 2013. Have been using as my regular backup device. I keep it at home but it's definitely small enough to travel in your laptop bag.
1|Bought this, and it was not a "plug and play." Tried to follow directions for installing software on Mac; however, did not work. Now I have to take to the Apple store to figure out what I did wrong. Have not been able to use.
5|Used this hard drive in my ps4. Now I have 4 times the memory. No issues
3|It didn't work well for my xbox one after I tried to plug it it to my friends xbox one and it would not format for my xbox or my friends but I only rated three stars because of that and it works well only on old computers lucky I had a Windows Vista from 2006!?
4|Seagate technical support was helpful in setting this unit up. It has performed well.
5|Very easy to use. I can physically save files or do system back ups.
4|This Seagate Backup has been running daily for 1.5 year capturing continuous backup on a desktop machine. No problems with reliability and it has space for extra files not generated by Seagate Dashboard. A second drive stores a copy remotely. The most sensitive files are encrypted, as I am concerned that others could just read the drive contents. I will look into hardware encryption of the whole drive next purchase.
5|Great
5|I purchased this drive to replace my old freeagent goflex that I dropped and had to do open hdd surgery on to even get it to spin up. Anyways this drive so far is a great replacement, its a very slim drive (half as thick as my old goflex) and its usb3 to boot. Great price too.
5|Amazon logo All Product me Each Maver beautiful Thank Me all workers in the Amazon They have customer interest Customers Appreciation and respect to me Amazon
5|Seller: 5 Stars Product Quality: 5 Stars Good external hard drive! I can finally sleep well knowing my personal data is safe and sound.
5|Good
5|got it for my ps4
5|Easy to use, light to carry yet look sturdy.
5|great product
5|Great product
4|Nice product. Slim and very fast
4|good quality hard disk so far
5|Windows 8.1 would not recognize my previous backup external HD. So I did a bit of research and thought this one would work. Just plug and play and backup was a breeze
1|As of now I have spent 3 1/2 hours trying to back up my PC. It backed up about half the data then went into that hour glass mode that we all know. I had to do a hard shut down and Im now trying again. I will give it another hour then I will return it to Amazon and buy a name brand product. Not happy at all. It says on the box "easily back up your PC" not having an easy time here.
5|A little workhorse. I love it. Easy to install and provides me with a worry free backup.
1|This drive cannot be formatted in either exFAT or FAT32 which is required to share the drive easily between Macs and PCs. If you want to share the drive between computer platforms, it requires the installation of a special driver available on their website. This makes things very inconvenient if you're using more than two computers. Very disappointed in this because I'm leaving my job and wanted to back up files. It could have been done already if not for this severe limitation.
5|Used the 2Tb version as a swap out for a PS4 500Gb hard drive. Everything is working fine. Take care opening the casing, then it can be re-assembled with the old drive.
5|good small portable drive i have owned.
5|Great Backup Drives...
5|Excellent Seller and excellent piece of advise everyone by this seller and give it the full five stars of a well worth it
5|I've bought 3 of these 2 TB drives and never had a problem . Holds up well, fast transfer on 3.0 and it doesn't ever freeze up like the previous Toshiba I bought. Really handy for transferring my DVD collection to MP4s to watch.
4|Bought for a PS4 Upgrade, works perfectly and took all of 10 minutes to install.
5|Installs easily and performs as expected
5|Great product for ps4
5|My "Seagate 2TB Slim Red", as I renamed it, came a day early well packaged & pretty in red. Its 18" USB 3.0 cable fits tightly on both ends. This Dell Inspiron i5 3542, Win 8.1, immediately put a "Safely Remove..." icon on the Taskbar & chirped. I DO use that icon when I want to disconnect it, although I see, in Device Manager, Windows set it for "quick removal". And I leave it set that way. (Aready I've rebooted & let the laptop sleep forgetting to use that icon with no detectable ill effects - but no writing was going on that I know of.) Quick Removal: Disables write caching, but supposedly no need to use icon. Better Performance: Enables write caching, but must use the icon. (Dell Diagnostics says... Cache Size: >= 32.0 MB.) I ran Dell's performance tests: smart status, 2 smart thresholds tests, targeted read, random seek, funnel seek, 2 linear read tests - & it passed each. The optional SMART Extended Self Test ran for 6+ hours, & it passed. I'm extremely pleased the drive got only midling warm (it has no vent holes) & never clinked or clanked the whole time. I could only hear it spinning by getting close. And I lifted & tilted & held it an hour+ during the tests, but never turned it upside down. (Now/then I felt a tiny kick in there; hence, the cesarians some here have performed on theirs. But I'll let mine come to term on its own!) Left plugged in for 10+ hours today - but little/no activity - it isn't even midling warm, though the 2.5" disk is spinning. Pursuant to my main reason for getting the drive, I did a MS System Image Backup. It offered to backup the EFI System partition, C:, & WINRETOOLS to "Seagate 2TB Slim Red" & took just a tad over 7 minutes to do it. I see the WindowsImageBackup folder that was created is 28.5 GB huge & the drive's used space increased accordingly. I did reboot to System Image Recovery & was pleased to see the 2TB Slim listed as a recovery drive with the image shown by date for selection. So, I must say I'm very pleased through four days of ownership. Definitely, I will update this review should anything go wrong. But I fully expect I'm invincible now... (1) Dell recovery image partition (to factory install) (2) MS Recovery USB Flash drive (Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\Recovery - Create a recovery drive) This is necessary to boot without engaging partitions you intend to overwrite with the Current System Image during a restore. This also has a copy of my Dell factory image for refresh/reset purposes. (3) Current System Image on my Seagate 2TB Slim Red (Control Panel\System and Security\File History - System Image Backup) So, I'm all signed up to get the Win 10 upgrade! - UPDATE 8/8/15: All continues to work well with my Seagate 2TB Slim RED. In addition to two for Win 8.1, it now holds two full system backups for Win 10. Back in July, I gave it a brother: Seagate 2TB Slim Blue. It too worked well out of the box, w/o installing the Seagate software. I put a clone of Win 8.1 onto it, before taking the upgrade to Win 10. Before that, I did run... PS C:\Windows\system32> chkdsk E: /R The type of the file system is NTFS. Volume label is Seagate 2TB Slim Blue. Stage 1: Examining basic file system structure ... 256 file records processed. File verification completed. 0 large file records processed. 0 bad file records processed. Stage 2: Examining file name linkage ... 282 index entries processed. Index verification completed. 0 unindexed files scanned. 0 unindexed files recovered. Stage 3: Examining security descriptors ... Security descriptor verification completed. 13 data files processed. Stage 4: Looking for bad clusters in user file data ... 240 files processed. File data verification completed. Stage 5: Looking for bad, free clusters ... 488318496 free clusters processed. Free space verification is complete. Windows has scanned the file system and found no problems. No further action is required. 1953513559 KB total disk space. 113728 KB in 7 files. 20 KB in 15 indexes. 0 KB in bad sectors. 125823 KB in use by the system. 65536 KB occupied by the log file. 1953273988 KB available on disk. 4096 bytes in each allocation unit. 488378389 total allocation units on disk. 488318497 allocation units available on disk. PS C:\Windows\system32> exit So, I remain overjoyed with Seagate.
5|I bought this 2TB drive to upgrade my ps4 hard drive. So far the drive works perfect! Make sure your ps4 update software comes from Sony's website and follow their instructions exactly. There is a link for the update in the instructions for the hard drive initialization on the site. There are two versions of the system software on the site and the one you need will be about 800 mb, this one is for initializing a new hard drive. The one you can't use is about 200mb and that one is for a normal system update. Also, opening the case voids the warranty on the drive so be careful and take your time opening this drive's case. I used a small flat screw driver.
5|Really easy to open up if you want to upgrade the hard drive in your laptop. Then, you also have a sleek case for your external drive!
1|This backup has a problem got very hot and so i lost all my info then it says it can't be return or replace...not good
5|I am not a professional CS and so on. however, i found this extr. hard drive very reliable. thanks so much.
1|I am reading reviews because I need a reliable external drive. Looks like Seagate has failed the test with blazing colors.
4|Good! it's smaller than I expected (The color is darker than macbook)
5|Very Slim, 2TB and fast, I would by this agian.
5|On time delivery.. Great product
5|no technical difficulties. I back up my macbook pro every 10 days. the drive is off on the end table in the family room where i can easily grab it when it's time to backup, but small enough that I don't find it in my way.
5|Works as advertised!
4|Only drawback is having to put up with the interesting higher-speed USB cable plug that attaches to this external hard drive. Fairly fast when paired up with a fast computer system. We use 4 of them now. They replace our 250 GB Seagate's you are using for backup over the prior year's. So far we haven't never had a problem with Seagate backup drives. Fairly thin so they don't take up much space in my attaché. Same review as the silver Seagate drive, this just allows me to give an average of 4.5
1|A complete and utterly false marketing ploy. Marketed for "Use between Windows and Mac" should include some fine print and a legal line. I felt mislead and given the false impression that this device is a plug and play solution to back up files that I trust. Instead, it requires formatting, specific downloads for each computer, and more. I even called customer support and they agreed that it wasn't 'exactly' as described but there were solutions. That would be great, if I didn't already purchase it so that I avoided those required solutions. AVOID...but another brand
5|Good price, quick shipping, well made. Had two of these, bought a third.
5|Excellent product
5|Very nice HD, and nice looking too.
5|USB 3 seems to speed things up. It is a nice small, portable hard drive. I use this to back up my computer files and write an image file for a total Windows Operating System restore, if necessary. This drive works well for that purpose and the write speed is significantly faster than USB 2.
5|Switched this with my PS4 hard drive and it works great :)
5|Nice backup software. Easy peasey. : )
5|love it
1|I wanted a super easy and light hard drive to back up my laptop. But I was never able to get a single file on the computer using the interface. Is there a way to just have it show up like a thumb drive and simply drag and drop all of the files, not just specific media files? I finally uninstalled the interface. I wanted to return the product for something easier, but I was past the 30 day return cut off.
5|I purchased this portable HardDrive last couple weeks, and I really likes this product. I had it test on both MacOS and WINDOWS7 system platform by using USB 3.0, and the R/W speed of this product showed a good performance. Besides, this product is quite slim and the weight is also quite light, it would give extra burden during traveling. I haven't noticed any downsides of this product, so I rated five stars for it.
5|Very happy with this. It's very portable and opens up on both my mac and PC.
5|very good product, i like it.
3|I didn't know there would be a problem using this between OS and Windows but there is. I bought this because I was switching from Windows laptop (Dell) to a Mac Book Pro15 so I needed to transfer my info from Dell to Mac. Naturally, I plugged it up to the dell first because that's where the information is. In this process I believe I formatted the Xdrive for the dell. I was allowed to transfer the info from the dell to mac but now I can't save info from the Mac to the X-drive. I did some research (details of which I do not remember at this stage). Apparantly I was supposed to format the X-drive using some special 'format'. Research x-drive compatibility between Mac and Windows.
5|It is light, small, attractive and very easy to use. I have it for a MacBook Pro.
5|Fast and expected, reasonable price!
5|Its pretty small
5|Great small storage devices! Holds my valuable computer memory stuff with ease. Plus the blue case is nice if into that sorta thing.
5|Good drive.
5|Fast and flawless plug n play installation
5|Very easy to setup and use. Able to save my files off the work computer, and then easily access and update the files on the drive. Very pleased with Seagate.
1|Worked great for about 2 months, then died. Lost all my data too :(
4|Works as expected. My iMac picked it up right away and added it to Time Machine. Very quiet. Time will tell if it lasts but looks good so far.
5|got this for my Dad. He loved the small size. it was plug-n-play (yea for me!) plugged right into his PC and started the complete backup in 1 click. great product so far and great price.
5|great travel size
5|works like a charm i bought this for my Playstation 4 and it works just like the original 500gb one it came with.
5|It hasn't break down on me yet. It does the job. Formatted it to osx journal and exfat.
4|Its OK
5|Very slim and easy to carry. Value for money.
2|I bought it to use as a portable drive to go on trips, but when I got it and read the material that came with it I found out it was suitable for use as an external drive, but not really recommended as a travelling accessory. Amazon took it back without question and I bought a Western Digital My Book 4tb as a travelling drive. Been happy with that one.
5|I has the software so it will auto back up. You can set your own auto back up settings as well. Additionally, it work like a flash drive. For example, I have my auto back up set to continuously back as needed AND I am able to open and close folders, save work to folders within the drive at the same time. It makes almost no sound/ vibrations. It is powered by usb, so no additional power supply needed. If that is what you are shopping for in a back up drive, you found it!
5|Excellent external drive, also great replacement for upgrade ps4 hdd.
5|Great back-up HD. I chose this one for Seagate quality -and- a 2TB drive was the largest drive (most memory) available without requiring a separate power supply. I've had it now for several months and it works perfectly.
5|Already owned one of these, when it was time to add more storage to my XBOX ONE this was an easy choice.
5|Top quality drive that performs as the reviews state. USB 3.0 transfers between 50-100 Mbps. Lovely metal shell & built well. Highly recommended drive.
5|Great Product.
2|Great when it worked. I had for about a year, used it maybe 10 times, kept it in the original box in my safe. Made a backup today, went to backup another computer and the drive is not detected, The light comes on, but I can hear it beeping and then the light starts blinking. Seatools are useless since the drive is not being detected. It's still under warranty, but that means sending all my personal data to Seagate. No thanks.
5|I bought a (blue 2tb) one of these several months ago after nearly running out of space on my 1 terabyte standard external drive. The old drive was nearly five years old, is huge compared to this and needs a separate power supply, which is inconvenient because I generally use my external drive while laying in bed with my laptop. This drive worked perfectly with my Windows 8 machine. I recently switched to Mac (mainly because I started using Photoshop and my old laptop wasn't up to the task) and got a second (silver 2th) drive as a backup. When I initially plugged the blue drive which was still formatted for Windows, I could view the photos on my Mac but they didn't play nicely with Photoshop and Lightroom in the Windows format (I believe it's NTSC by default). I formatted my silver drive to be more compatible with my Mac and partitioned it so I could use it for time machine as well. I then copied all the files from the blue drive to the silver drive, formatted the blue drive and put the pictures back onto it from the silver drive. So far everything has been working perfectly. I have noticed that I need a powered USB hub to even use one of these drives even if there's nothing else plugged into the hub. I can also use my RavPower File Hub to copy pictures I take from the microSD card directly to one of the drives and then later plug the drive into the Mac to import the pictures into Lightroom or Photoshop. I have had the blue drive for several months and have really put it through the paces spending several hours nearly every day storing and organizing my pictures and it has worked perfectly. These drives are small enough to put in your pocket and fit perfectly in the Case Logic EHDC-101 Blue Hard Shell Case for 2.5-Inch Portable Hard Drive with their cables. I also have the Drive Logic DL-64 Portable EVA Hard Drive Carrying Pouch (Pink). The drive does fit in the pink case, but there is a good amount of extra room. The case does have a cushion on the side where the drive goes that helps it to fit snugly and cushion it. It is big enough to fit two of these hard drives with the cushion and with extra room around the top and bottom and because it has an outside pocket, you could probably manage to fit both cables as well.
5|Works great with my MacBook and Xbox one
5|Good
5|find it useful to story and carry my photos
4|I've only used it for one back up so far. It seems to work great. I had fast transfer speeds. It's a bit slippery, so be careful when you handle it. I don't like that the cord it proprietary. If you lose it, you'd have to order another one from Seagate. It's USB on one end, but the other is an odd shape made specifically for this device.
5|Just set it up and it works automatically with no additional intervention.
5|yes
5|Good again.
5|So far this is working wonderfully. It comes with software that make it work with both my Mac and my Windows. I haven't had any issues with it and it was delivered quick. Pretty happy, I just hope is holds up since I haven't had it for very long yet and I don't want to have to worry about loosing data. Although again, so far so good :)
5|Love its design, color, weight and especially the fact that you don't need to connect 2 cables to work with it.
5|I bought the silver for my wife, and it was so nice I bought another (blue) for me (so we don't mix them up). Small and fast. I will update later once we have had them for over a year, because right now it is still too soon to tell...
5|Great deal & works perfect with my late '09 MacBook.
5|Works great for backing up our 2 computers.
5|I'm pleasantly surprised that 2TB of storage can fit in such a small space. This is very slim and compact. I can carry it in my purse with no problem. I am quite pleased with my purchase.
5|Great hard drive so far.
5|Its OK
5|Great!
4|This is very sleek and easy to carry. Very fast in writing to disk and reading from. Good price too.
5|good
1|Like others, worked for a few weeks, now it is nothing short of problematic. Seems to work fine on my Windows 7 Home desktop, but I get I/O errors and messages that the drive needs to be formatted on a Windows 7 Pro desktop. Worked for awhile on my Windows 8.1 laptop, then started having issues connecting and also was told by my OS that the drive needed formatting. Hours wasted trying to get it to work. And just like someone else, I am 2 weeks and 3 days past my Amazon return window. All my WD portable drives have worked flawlessly. My first Seagate experience is nothing short of frustration. Buyer beware.
5|Works great for backup, but what I really do with it is copy an entire [almost always smaller] hard drive to it, rip it out of the case and install it as a 2TB 9mm internal drive. Fits just about any laptop. OK, so this is not the recommended way to use this product, but it has (historically) been less expensive than the OEM version of the same M9T drive and you get the USB 3 interface! Also, when using it as a backup drive, it's small and light. Comes in colors! What more could you want! I have bought a number of these and most are now in continuous use in laptops and have been working great for months.
5|Slim and dependable.
5|good
4|it is goog
5|Works as advertised. Small and reliable.
5|Took this apart to use the drive as laptop storage back in January 2014, before they were available without the enclosure. Used a guitar pick.
5|Great product! If you use a MAC, make sure you reformat it before loading anything on it! Use Disk Utility program, Click Erase and pick MAC OS or MS-DOS format to make sure you can read AND WRITE to the disk. It comes preset as a NTFS format, which you can only have "READ" permissions on a MAC
5|Plug it in and it's ready to go. Perfect for taking a large number of media files on the go (outside of cloud storage) and only one cord necessary as device powered by USB.
5|Very good quality and stylish..
5|Great price for 1TB. Very slim, very fast. Does everything it claims (I've had it for 6 months). Amazon has the better price than B&H for this one, but be sure to check them out, they often have better deals.
1|Very frustrating product. I tried to format it on my Mac to be compatible with both Mac and pc but that was not the case. Very disappointing.
5|It runs great on my windows and mac. Saved all my photos and documents
5|This performed exactly as expected. Simple to use.
5|GOOD!
5|Great software included. Works perfectly.
5|Exactly what I wanted. As expected.
5|Small and fast
5|Excellent!
2|I just bought the 1TB version of this drive, which says it is compatible with Mac OS X 10.6.8 or higher. My iMac is installed with OS X 10.6.8 and installation failed three times - I tried both the "Mac Only" and the Mac & PC versions. Two hours of my life that I can't get back. I have two other WD "My Passport" external drives and they loaded up instantly. Looks like I have a reason to be brand loyal, regardless of price.
1|I ended up returning this as it did not do what I needed it to do. It may not be the fault of the item itself, but rather the online description of what it could do. Regardless it did not work on my Mac Mini computer. I need a backup that will work on both the Mac Mini and several PCs.
4|I used the hard drive from this unit for a Sony PS4. It worked as expected. I took the old drive from the PS4 and put it in the remaining case, reformatted it and I'm using it as a backup drive. Seems to be a decent hard drive,for,that application.
5|good
5|Met my expectations great product
5|Excellent storage size for an affordable price.
5|Easy to use. Works as advertised
1|Since 2010 I have bought 2 Seagate external drives. Both have bitten the dust already. These devices are terrible. I use these about once a month to back up my files from my computer. I keep it unplugged and stored in my desk drawer and it's never touched unless I pull it out and turn it on to back up files. The drives haven't lasted longer than 3 years and I lose all of my files when it craps out. I will never buy anything seagate in the future and I hope all the users who read reviews will be deterred from buying Seagate.
5|Works Great and Seagate provides great support
5|I like this thing. Was much smaller than I anticipated, but basically, as long as it works, I'm a happy camper. Comes with cable and software (software preloaded on drive). Price was right and I needed one. Would buy again.
5|I'm happy, it's an excellent product, recommend.
5|Absolutely love this drive. It's incredibly lightweight, thin and beautiful red color. I purchased it because it can go back and forth between my Mac and my old PC - it's been a chore trying to move files from one to the other. So very happy with the purchase. I will probably buy another one as soon as the first one fills up. I purchased the Seagate Rescue - 2 Year Data Recovery Plan for $10 for extra peace of mind. Hope I don't have to use it, but tired of having hard drives crash and take my valuable data with them. Highly recommend this product.
4|Great
5|good
4|I would give this five star's except for one thing. I installed the software per instructions and the after I hit the back up button the page froze. It wouldn't do anything, not even close. I went to computer right clicked on properties and could see it was working. Perhaps I didn't wait long enough but I uninstalled it all and started over. This time it all worked and you could see the progress on the back up page. I checked the back up and it looks good. It seem fast to me too. I also use "click free" which does the whole operating system as well and it is a lot slower. Not a fair comparison I realize but I thought it was very fast. My problem with the software might have been just me. I would buy this again.
5|I love the size and portability.
5|slim and small..capacity 1.8TB..backwards compatible with usb 3.0. got it for $110 including shipping and customs..definitely worth it..
5|Nice fast USB drive..
4|This Seagate Backup Plus Fast is one of the fastest and most spacious portable external hard drives we've seen. That, and the fact that it costs 6 cents per gigabyte, makes this a decent choice alongside this 2TB version here: http://amzn.to/1dFVW2M PROS + Prodigious storage capacity. + Speedy throughput. CONS - No more Universal Storage Module (USM) interface. - No Thunderbolt option. - Bulky.
5|This was a birthday gift for my brother and he loves it!
4|Good quality, good price
5|Never had a failing drive from Seagate. Great product.
5|I love these once. They are small. look good. Have lots of space. Great for travel. Also good for backups. I have two of them now.
5|Great
2|This drive works properly in windows - in my experience. I've not used it long enough to have had the experiences others report here of thinking they had things backed up and didn't. The drive acts funny in Ubuntu Linux, and Clonezilla, which is the main backup utility Linux users use, can't see it to mount it to write an image to it. It took far more going around to get this drive to work properly than it is worth. It turned out that the drive name, "Seagate Expansion+" is illegal. As far as I can determine so far, there is a way to change the volume name in Windows, though it was a day's work to find what that would be, and there is NO WAY to change the drive name in Ubuntu Linux. This is pure carelessness. There is a standard way of naming hard drives, and Seagate didn't follow it in order to be cute. Other things such as failure to conform to the USB3 standard turned out not to be the problem, but I wasn't left thinking that Seagate's conformity to any standard is more than accidental. I bought this drive at Walmart, and I was also disturbed by a review on Amazon that said this drive failed the second time she used it, which happens on occasion with any brand - but Seagate told her they would charge her $500 to rescue the photos that that was her only backup copy. It didn't happen to me, and I have no firsthand knowledge that it happened at all - but what kind of a company gives its drives illegal names. I'm not impressed.
5|exelente
5|Awsome product!
4|The Backup Plus Slim is a nice, easy to use back up system. The only problem I'm having is I have both Mac and Windows and I need to configure the NAFTS program for my MAc to get it to work. Otherwise, the small size makes it easy to total around and it was easy to set up on my 3 Windows laptops.
1|Died within a week, but I've never heard of a really truly durable external drive anyway.
1|I've had mine for over a year, I have been losing files, it happened over 4 times where my movies disappear, and files full of movies disappear. very disappointing. and Seagate doesn't have any tech support over the phone, i tried to get some help and they were impossible.
5|good
5|Got it to use for Time Machine backups. Takes up no space at all, was trivial to install, is noiseless and so far has worked flawlessly.
2|When my Seagate blue slim 2TB external drive went four days ago, it was maybe 6 months old, so it failed within the warranty period. My previous experience had been that Seagate drives failed outside the one year warranty period. Right after I transferred the data from this 2TB drive, I found that a 4TB backup drive attached to another computer was now dead. The 4TB was maybe 18 months old. My conclusion is that Seagate is selling crap that it knows will stop working. The files are there in the externals, but you can't access them. I am getting the impression that all backup hard drives are worthless in the long run but the Seagates now are so shoddily built they fail within the warranty period. I have no intention of ever buying any more Seagates.
5|Perfect purchase! Slightly confusing reformating it for storage use but bery worth it!
5|This item works amazing as a 2TB internal HDD for a PS4. It is slightly faster than the stock PS4 HDD as well. I extracted the 2TB HDD and put in the PS4, then took the stock 500GB HDD and it works great as a external HDD.
4|Wish I could transfer from my iPhone directly to this
5|awesome. love the slim size.
5|I guess that is enough said. :) Great external hard drive. Excellent way to get large storage. Very compact. Quiet and cool. Can be used as second drive in laptops.
5|Thanks
1|I ordered this hard drive (Backup Plus Fast 4TB) from an Amazon reseller earlier this year and only got around to using it on my home desktop recently due to travel commitments. What a disappointment - using the Dashboard software that came with the drive, the drive would hang at 6% and never get past that point. Using Norton's backup software that is included in their security suite, the drive at first looked like it was working but it was an illusion since nothing was actually transferred to the drive when I looked at the contents. Later, all I would get was a failure notice from Norton that there was a problem with the drive when I ran Norton backup. Running Windows 8.1, I am getting a notice that there is a problem with the drive when it is connected and it need to be scanned and fixed. I tried this but it didn't help at all. Instead, the drive got super hot to the touch but no fix. I tried fixing it with SeaTools but no luck there either. Clearly, I have a defective drive that I'm returning to Seagate under the warranty. Given the difficulty some reviewers have had getting a new drive, I'm not looking forward to the process but I don't like throwing away $200+. I had hoped for better quality.
5|It's the best product I ever used. It's handy. I love the black one more among all.
4|Good and new
5|Gave this to my husband for a birthday present. He is loves it. So far it is performing well. I'll be back with an update in about 6 months.
4|This one is "Plug and Play", as they say... it just works, and that is great! One thing to know: you cannot use a USB Hub port to connect this - it has to plug directly into your laptop/computer's USB port. This was challenging for my USB-limited MacBook Air (only 3 available), but I now use a USB Hub for other things (including my bluetooth keyboard and trackpad, external DVD/CDRoM drive), so its working out fine. The user-interface is fairly intuitive, backing up every hour or so. However, after a few days of backups, it only saves one per day, which is not necessarily the "last" backup of that day (one is from 3:21pm of that day, next is from 12:02pm the next day, then the following day saved the 1:58pm backup, etc...) So, I'm not sure about why it is set up that way, but I haven't tried to get Seagate's help with it, yet. Restoring from a backup is extremely easy, when coached how to do it the first time by my wonderful AppleCare phone support :-) The metal box (it feels like metal, anyway) seems pretty sturdy, but I am not one to lug it around with me. If I ever do need to take it "on the road", its size is beautifully compact and lightweight - well done design! Plus, the one I purchased is a very pretty blue, if colors matter to you. The price point was lower on this than the other color options, so that's what made my decision easy!
5|Using this to back up my wife's MAC. She likes the compact size and the color.
5|Love it
5|Worked perfect in my gameboy color
5|excelente
4|Had a warning on starting, but otherwise it works like a charm. I'm super satisfied, and don't need more than 500GB anyway. Thanks again.
5|This HD is so sweet. The best I've ever had by far. Don't buy anything else.
5|Excellent external drive, absolutely no complaints. Very fast and has a nifty auto backup system that you can use to store system images regularly.
5|My previous device was out of space. A "dot.com" relation recommended it; it meets my need for backing up all my computer "files" with plenty of " space" to spare. Another worthwhile product on the market.
5|Perfect portable hardrive, can work for both Mac and Windows straight out of box! And so cheap for 2 Tb USB 3.0 option
2|This hard drive is awful for Mac users. I had to jump through hoops to get it formatted to work on a mac. Now that it works, I just tried to save a PSD to it. It seemed like it saved...but it didn't and I had no way to recover the file. Also, I tried to use the hard drive on my fiancees mac to give him a file - the drive is locked and I can only get it to work on my laptop. What a waste!
1|Don't waste your time. I purchased this last November and just took our to Best Buy to back up a computer that I was cleaning out. They called me the next day and said the unit was no good and I would have to provide a new one to do the back up. Now I'm stuck with this useless Seagate that I spent $100 on and I have to get another one. I will not be wasting money on this crap again.
5|Still kicking after months of use
5|I have a Mac, but reformatting was easy. Google knows everything. There isn't much to tell, other than the fact that it works, and it's tiny, so I can put it anywhere. Buy it.
5|For now I will give 5stars, as I have just received it , and too early to give a valuable review...amazon is as usual great.... The looks and feel of the product is decent (not an important factor to me though). Transferring 450 GB from laptop to HDD... Avg Speed is 57 Mbps on USB3... I EXPECTED MORE... IDK if my expectations arr wrong... Other buyers can let me know about their transfer rate. I am worried about the number of failures reported with this drive... but will not comment before I face it. Will wait and watch. There is nothing else to point right now. Only request to my hdd---"Please do not fail".
5|Thx
5|Awesome hard drive, stainless steel exterior gives it a quality feel and helps keep the drive cool
1|I expected plug and go. An hour after taking it out of the box I am still trying to get it to work. The installer is horrible. The instructions are mult-lingual, too bad they are not clear in any language. I paid a premium for a "Mac" external drive and the only extra I got was aggravation.
5|small on the outside, huge capacity inside, GREAT product!!. But the connector cord is WAY to short
5|So far so good. I haven't had any issues. I really hope it lasts a very long time.
5|This item was purchased for my Mother-in-law. She takes lots and lots and lots of pictures and uses this as her storage device for all of her pictures. She says that it works great for what she uses it for.
5|Currently my main backup drive. I use compression with no indexing and still get a stable 67MBps write on it. Its just really nice and portable. I'm glad to have this.
5|Got this for my ps4 and it works fine u just have to take the hard drive out of the case. Gave me 1,760 gb of free space on my ps4.
5|My sidekick buddy. Always comes in handy when I need it. The best part, I can take it on the go!
5|Good product
5|For the price, you can't go wrong.
5|I had no problems connecting it to my old Windows 7 computer. I loaded all of the pictures, documents and programs that I wanted on to the drive, it loaded relatively quickly considering it was a few hundred GB. I unplugged it and replugged it, all the information is still there, hallelujah.
3|After my last Seagate external hard drive gave up the ghost (entirely my fault for dropping it), I decided to purchase a replacement -- I had no desire to lose all my pictures, documents, and music due to a hardware failure. This particular hard drive isn't too dissimilar from my old one -- same size, same brand, only a bit of a different shape -- and I found it suits my needs just fine. It has plenty of room for backing up my most important files, and even allows for some extra storage space in case I need it. And it's pretty easy to use -- even someone with only a basic knowledge of how to use a computer can use it. But there's one factor that keeps me from giving this a four-or-five-star review, and unfortunately it's a big one -- the accompanying software. Like many users, I installed this hard drive's accompanying Seagate Dashboard program to my computer and used it to back up my documents. And immediately I ran into problems. Seagate Dashboard eats up a LOT of CPU usage, and my computer would slow to a crawl even when the Dashboard wasn't running a backup. Programs would lock up for minutes at a time -- and any computer user can tell you that minutes feel like hours when it comes to computer usage. After trying many other solutions, I finally concluded that the slowdowns and lockups began occurring AFTER I purchased the hard drive, and I uninstalled Dashboard, which set things right again. I still recommend this drive, or really any external hard drive -- having a backup of your most valuable data is a must for any computer user. But I recommend against installing Seagate Dashboard. It's an unnecessary program, and you can easily back up your files using Windows Backup, or simply dragging and dropping files.
5|Works great for my Xbox One.
5|Excellent product, was a good choice for my external storage
5|nice
5|I purchased this hard drive around 10 months ago for my girlfriend to back up her computer. So far, everything works great, just as expected!
5|We had an older desktop computer that was dying. With this device we were able to save everything that was on it.
5|Very happy with this drive. Like every Seagate backup product I've owned, it works well, no failures so far (and some are 5-6 years old, with heavy use, which is why I'm replacing them.) I think they're the best small backup drives for the money, personally.
4|It's really light, good, worked quickly.
4|solid quiet light works perfect
4|Great, slim external hard drive but the embedded software is a little clunky with sparse instructions included on how to back up mobile devices.
5|Great price. Fast delivery!
5|This product is working great.
5|Works exceptional, fast transfer speeds, durable.
4|Quick. Easy. Fast data transfer. And most of all, its affordable.
3|Osx updates mess this drive up
4|These 2.5" high gig USB powered drives are great. This one works flawlessly. This is my 2nd 2Tb disk. I use it to store movies, TV shows, kids shows and music for playback on my TV via a Minix streaming player. I plan on purchasing more in the future.
5|The hard drive performs backups quickly with USB 2.0 or 3.0 and has been reliable so far. The drive has not been very hot under use and is very compact.
5|So Far so Good.
4|Very good
5|easy
4|Solid, relatively fast and compact
5|great
5|excellent....just what I wanted
5|This is great!
4|Good !!! Product as expected without issues.
5|Metal top looks meticulously machined and the wrap-around sides and the bottom in black compliments it well. Still, don't expect MacBook like quality aluminum. The metal top is very thin. I can see it slightly bend inwards with a just little bit of pressure with one finger. (It bounces back to its regular shape after I lift my finger.) I gotta make sure I don't put anything heavier than a few quarters and a dime on it. :) OK, maybe 4.5 stars rather than 5. I have discarded the software that came bundled with it, as I am planning to backup using TimeMachine on my Mac. I have reformatted it with Disk Utility to "MacOS Journaled, encrypted". I was able to copy an 800MB file to it in just over 8 secs, while it takes almost 11 secs to copy that same file onto WD Elements (both of them 2TB versions.) I guess there is a reason for the small price difference between them. Granted, I timed this test with a stopwatch rather than some app, so the timing may not be exact, but the speed difference has been noticeable in day to day use as well. In any case, either one is much faster than my old desktop hard disk (USB2), which requires more than 36 seconds for the same task. I would definitely recommend it.
1|After spending $100 on a product, I expected it to be good quality and long-lasting. Six months after I started using it, however, it is broken. I haven't abused it in any way, and there's no water damage or any other discernible reason why it should have stopped working. It simply doesn't work anymore. I've had a techie friend look at it and he thinks I MIGHT be able to get the data off of it, if we can buy a kit with the right tools. It's absolutely ludicrous for this item to be so poor quality and last such a short period of time. I'll definitely be buying another brand the next time- NOT SEAGATE.
4|Simple , sleek and easy to use.
2|Not Mac compatible.
5|Good product. The drive is completely quiet, I like to whopping 2TB capacity. Cable is USB3. The package was compact with a simple to follow instruction manual. The only thing is I wish Seagate had made the case a bit smoother. Also, I wonder, why a 2 TB drive has 1/2 GB already taken up by company's software!! Why couldn't the drive have additional capacity to compensate for this software? Anyway, very pleased with this purchase.
5|This serves all my needs. Easy to use. Great size for portability. Meets all my needs.
5|Works seamlessly!!!
5|Great value
5|Everything as described with fast shipping.
3|It seems to be a fine portable hard drive. However, the backup software that comes with it is really only useful for Windows, not Mac. For Mac, you are just expected to use Time Machine. In this case, I got it for someone with a Mac. They just wanted to regularly (and automatically) backup their photos and music, and Time Machine does not really give you that granularity. From the description, it looked like the included Seagate software for this drive would. But not for Macs. So if you are getting this for a Mac, hopefully you are just getting it to be a portable hard drive. Oh, and if you want to use it with Time Machine, you can't use the PC/Mac interchange feature either because the NTFS formatting is not compatible with that software.
4|these are as good as they work=- it is about how long they work rather than how they work- so a review is not worth anything unless it is one that says they work a long time!!!!
5|I've only had this hard drive for a week, so I can't speak to its long-term reliability, but the build quality feels very solid, it's even smaller and slimmer than I expected, and it works between my Windows and Mac laptops (when formatted to exFAT). For my purposes, this is exactly what I was looking for, and I might get a second one in black and use one for photos and one for videos.
4|Good value. Great for backups
3|I have been using this portable drive for more than 1 year, every day almost, and have it run Oracle Virtualbox for 3 virtual machines within a virtual network. It works great in terms of data storage and data retrieving but the only pitfall that I have observed is its USB connection jack - it looks very much unsecure in perspective of USB plugging mechanism. The jack sets in a shallow hole on the drive and easily causes "free-play" between a plugged-in USB connector and the jack itself. I once accidently pushed a book near the drive on the desk, the book touched the drive and caused the USB connection free-play losing the data connection to my laptop. I am not sure how difficult for Seagate technically to have the jack designed more secure in USB connections? I viewed several photos here on Amazon about the similar products from WesternDigital; the USB jack designed looks better to me than this one from Seagate.
5|Perfect size and adequate storage. Easy to set up, transfer and retrieve information.
5|Am using this for the Time Machine backup on my IMac. Works perfectly and is a bargain for the size memory. Bought a 2nd one for extra photos so not to crowd my main computer.
5|good! that's all what i can say!
5|A great slim and robust little hard drive
5|Meets all my expectations! could not be happier.
2|Just installed Dashboard and started the first backup... Suddenly Norton starts screaming about viruses. After the initial backup was completed I restarted the PC and Norton caught several more. Haven't had Norton flag anything for 3 months, then as soon as I install this drive and software boom...... I may do another review after I've had some time with it but this is my first thoughts..
5|it was shipped on time as agreed and the product works great.
5|It does what is says it does and has great storage.
5|Perfect as described
5|Exactly as advertised. Drive works very well.
4|As Expected
5|installed and working fine.
5|Great drive not expecting much, price is right!
5|lots of storage
4|I decided to get this as opposed to the nearest competition due to an article I read touting the performance, and I am not disappointed. I intended the unit to be used as a cheap and quick general network back-up. I know it is intended as a portable back-up, but for the price, I thought it would do fine for what I needed. It is connected to an HP DL380 server running ESXI 5.5, and have it connected through an added USB 3.0 card dedicated to a windows 7 VM. Initially I had some very disappointing performance where it is very slow connected to the native DL380 USB 2.0 ports, but with addition of the USB 3.0 port, it is faster than the 7200 rpm WD Blue on a desktop system. I ran disk performance tests with Chrystal Disk Bench and ATTO and got consistently 130MB/s transfer on large files. This is great for backing up large volumes of files over the LAN. Interestingly, Both Chrystal Disk Bench and ATTO show write speeds exceeding the read. I gave it a 4 stars instead of five because i think it needs a disk activity light. The light on the case only seems to indicate that power is applied. Note: to get the full speed, you must limit the USB 3.0 cable to the length of the one (SATA/USB) included. Anything longer and the performance starts to degrade pretty significantly.
5|Great product
5|Great product to have.
5|Excellent installed perfectly for my PS4. With no problem.
4|Thank you!
5|Nice product, I really liked the backup software.
5|I've got different models of backups, and bought this on a whim since I used Seagate for my larger system drives behind my working Samsung SSDs that my NLE and other video editing is really done on first. So I was impressed to see that the speed of this little monster, even though it goes against my creed to rarely (if ever) buy Chinese produced products, was faster than my Western Digitals. Not to mention so compact, for a 3 disc 2.5" unit. Needs to be on a USB 3.0 of course, but for the few hundred hours I have on it so far it has performed without any skips or errors. Love it. Will buy a couple more now.
5|I really enjoyed this product. From the moment you take it out of the package, you'll notice how light weight and portable it is. To when you plug it in and set it up for the first time.
5|Awesome. I use it with my Xbox One for the added space. No problems at all.
5|Quick delivery,great product
1|This thing has been a bust since I purchased it. My exchanges with Seagate were of no help. It has never worked. And because of waiting for Seagate and then thinking it was just me, I waited. Now it's too late to return it and my computer won't even acknowledge it even though the software is downloaded from my first tries. This was a total--and I mean TOTAL--waste of $100.00. I might have just as well flushed the money down the toilet. Seagate really let me down in not acknowledging the unit was defective.
5|I needed a larger external drive to use as my portable iTunes library, as my 1TB Seagate drive was full (all music, no videos). The Seagate Backup Plus Slim connected immediately and was ready to use. It took a while to get 1TB of data moved, but it works now and I am very happy. The 2TB unit is smaller than my older 1TB device, and it seems to be working exactly as I wanted it to, so I have nothing negative to say. I will not be using this as a backup HD, so I cannot comment on the software provided. But if you want a VERY small, compact, quick portable drive, this should do the trick!
1|I've been using personal computers since before the PC and this is hands down the worst backup storage product I have ever had the displeasure of owning. The original drive failed in less than 24 hrs. I thought to myself "that's what warranties are for", opened a case with Seagate and returned it for a replacement, Seagate then sent me the wrong replacement, which I had to return to them at my cost to get the correct warranty replacement drive. That drive lasted about three weeks before again failing, taking all my data with it. I did another warranty replacement and almost a month later I received my THIRD replacement hard drive from Seagate (they sent me a refurb this time), which has just failed after about a month and a half of use, taking all my data with it for the third time in six months. The only recourse offered by Seagate is to pay to send the failed drive back to them for another replacement. If I do so, I will have spent more on packing and shipping dead drives back to Seagate than this product cost. Do yourself a favor and just stay away from this product.
1|Stopped working after one week. Tried using it on a desktop with Windows 7 - disk couldn't be accessed. Tried using it on a Macbook Air - didn't even show up in Disk Utility. What a waste of money. :(
5|Does what it says it would. And the sleek red design is awesome.
5|no complaints yet
4|I like this product very much. quality with reasonable price.
5|Seagate has always had reliable backup/storage equipment. Easy install, easy operation.
5|Looks great, works great so far! No complaints
4|I bought it to use as my iMac Time Machine backup. It does what it is supposed to do.
2|I owned two Passport drives before this and for ease of use they were great, but they are useless when they fail, which they do quickly, resulting in loss of data not backed up daily. So I went with the Seagate this time, purchasing at Costco because they will take anything back forever. Well, all my important stuff is on here, including the contents of four computers from work and home and it IS easy to use, popping right up when I plug it in. BUT THERE'S THE RUB: It does not stay plugged in - the cord has never fit securely in its slot and disconnects at the merest breath; I can't tell if this is function of the cord's male part, or the unit's female part. Just now I plugged it in and it took eight tries to get it to stay plugged in. I also just got a format pop-up on this drive, so I am not optimistic. I am going to upload everything to my laptop tonight and take this back to Costco this week. I'll let them replace it and if I have the same problem it will be on to the next brand, whatever that is. UPDATE: Well, this failed. I contacted Seagate for a new cord, they wanted the whole drive back, and of course it's impossible to erase your data when the drive is invisible to your computer. So I went the Seagate site and the packing regulations on returns is RIDICULOUS. In fact, if you do a search about "Seagate RMAs" you will find plenty of beefs. They wanted it packed in plastic clamshells (which they do do have available, but for which they conveniently provide a link to a third party who sell at obscene prices), they also wanted the anti-static bag, though it was packaged with neither of these from Costco. So back I went to good old reliable Costco, and they took it back and tossed it right in the trash. They credited me the original price as they always do, and I'll try something else.
5|works properly...Fast and excellent service for myself being a prime member,thanks!
5|Good shipment and Good quality
5|Thanks
5|This hard drive is very slim and portable and fits just about anywhere. It looks very sleek and fells really nice. As far as performance, it is very fast and works great with time machine. To give you an idea of its speed, I transferred about 600 RAW photos from my camera to the hard drive in about 5 minutes. Great for pictures or pretty much anything else. Definitely would recommend.
5|Compact (especially for 2TB) and reliable. It's fast and I've had no issues with it, so no complaints!
5|Perfect!
5|good looking and work as expected
1|I have a dozen backups - all Seagate. This did not show up and never loaded. When I checked the instructions it said it may need to be plugged into 2 usb ports to get enough power. That was a red flag for me so I am returning it. Now I understand why so many got hot and failed.
4|I bought two and one was defective. Warranty replacement was no problem, just inconvenient.
1|Sending it back. Windows Explorer doesn't recognize it. I'll get another one as I've had good luck with the Seagate external drives before.
5|Slim and easy to use. And 2TB is enough for backing up my work data.
4|good
5|As described.
5|Great backup drive, very speedy on USB 3. Well packaged and arrived on time.
3|First day of use- have not done any testing to see if they are fast and haven't had them long enough to know if they are reliable (Raid 0 gives me pause but I need 4TB of portable storage so here we are. 8TB actually. I bought 2 of them). What I can tell you is that they are PIPING hot, as in REALLY hot, as in I worry about them. They've been running overnight being cloned and I had to suspend them in the air because when they were stacked on top of my mac they actually felt too hot to the touch. Even suspended, they were too hot to hold for long. I can't imagine this being a good thing over time (though I know that during regular use they would be idle a lot more than during a cloning operation). Though this doesn't effect me, you should make sure your laptop can power this drive (it comes with a Dual USB cable where it draws power from both USB ports). I'm also curious about the software. The installation was a tad clunky (and I don't know WHERE it installed the software even though I'm a savvy fella). I ended up formatting the drive using Disk Utility on the Mac. I'll see if there are any benefits to the software (I don't need this as a backup or for any of that social media stuff- it's a work drive). It's my only option for 4TB of portable storage- it looks good. It's hot to the touch. And that's all I know so far.
5|I love this little red box. So great for backing up everything
5|Very good!
5|This is a super fast and tiny little drive. I am using it with Time Machine on my Macbook and it flies yet makes no sound at all. The only thing you see is the pulsing light of drive. It works well, looks nice, and was reasonably priced. I used to be a WD guy. This is my second Seagate drive I have gotten that is portable and third if you consider a full sized 3TB. They are all excellent and reliable.
5|Very happy. It arrived fast. I would definitely recommend.
5|easy, no easier, no easiest
5|fast & reliable
5|This is awesome. Very small, quiet, and rock solid. Best USB drive ever.
4|Had my computer guy hook it up. Probably could have myself but he had to wipe the older one and set this one up. Seems to be doing what it's supposed to be doing. I sure hope so, but hope I never have a P.C. hard drive crash to prove it.
5|Works great for a replacement ps4 hard drive.
5|We are using two of these in our small business as backup drives and they are great. Very easy to set up and use. We tried several different backup programs like Acronis and Backblaze, and we had constant issues with them. Love these little drives!
3|The proprietary software and focus on cellular backup, then the absolutely impossible to self diagnose mac format issue all really hurt the overall price-point appeal .
5|This external was everything that I expected it to be. It is so very easy to transport files to it. The small size of the unit makes it easy to transport with me. I am glad I bought it.
1|All my toy's are Apple. This device does not work well with my Mac Air book Pro even with update software and the "fixes" from the Seagate support site. Every time I try to use their Dash-Board to set up my backup plan my computer freezes up. I have read the operators manual and downloaded several items from the Seagate site with no improvement. I did notice that Seagate has a similar model that states that it is made for the Mac OS system. I may give that a try. Note: in the past I have had good experience with Seagate products. Oh-Well! Gene
5|Fantastic drive. I used it along with my MacBook Air as a iTunes media drive. Movies streamed to Apple TV are perfect.
5|Nice price - arrived on time - works like a charm
5|Compact, easy to use, great.
5|Working great arrived as promised
5|works good!
1|The best I could ever do with this is get a partial backup. All I get is backup failed over and over again. When it comes to backups it has to be dependable. This thing is anything but.
5|Awesome drive, has tons of space and will wirelessly back up my cell phone when it is connected to my computer.
5|This is a super easy product to use. It's as easy to use as a thumb drive is. It came in 24 hours if me ordering it. also great price for the amount of space
5|Excellent
5|a++
5|The perfect size for travel and looks so good too. Plus the transfer is super quick between my laptop and this drive.
5|Works great have had it a few months now used it for more storage for my xbox one. No complaints so far.
5|very good
5|Using it as a DVR drive and it does a great job. Very small and was fast when formatting for it's use. I've also had really good luck with Seagate drives.
1|Only lasted a few months.
5|This is a fantastic drive. I am a major hardware geek, especially when it comes to drives (desktop, mobile, SSD, whatever). Your life and work (or school) are stored on drives, so I keep many around, usually in pairs -- one of which I keep in a fire safe at all times. I also have this drive in the larger (thicker) dual-platter size, and I don't like it nearly as much. Although the price difference is small between the 500GB and 1TB drives, I like the 500GB better. It is plenty big for OS and files -- about anything other than video. The 500GB drive is just super slim and SUPER quiet. It is about 9mm versus the 12mm listed on this page. I am burned-out on loud drives, and this sleek, thin drive is not only quiet but well-built and handsome. I got this as part of the VINE program, but I subsequently purchased a twin silver one in 500GB. I then purchased the 1TB (thicker), but I don't like the 1TB drive nearly as much. It is thicker and louder. The tops of these are real metal with a nice machined logo on them. The sides are shiny plastic which I don't like as much because it scratches easy and shows fingerprints. The bottom is a nice, matte, textured black plastic. The LEDs are white and in a slit which has a nice effect. The slimmer 500GB also minimizes the black sides while emphasizing the nice top. I have not had any problems with any of these. I was tempted to buy some of the 2TB drives, which are a fantastic price, but they are even louder, and you basically destroy the nice case if you try to extract them. In fact, the 2TB drives are louder than my WD Green desktop drives. So, despite the price, the 500GB is really my pick of the litter. They also make a Mac version in silver which, instead of a brushed silver finish, comes in a matte silver finish.
5|Works like a charm... everything as promised.
5|very good
5|lightweight and small cool apperance
5|good qulity and much lower price than that in Korea
4|Plugged it in, moved all the Seagate files off but haven't put files on. Bought it for two reason .. 1) 2TB for a decent price! Are you friggin' kidding me? No brainer, buy it. 2) Potentially ** I ** could fill it up with ** my ** genius. Potentially .. you know once I unleash it .. on an unsuspecting world .. I mean it could happen .. and when it does, that's where I'll put it. Woot! Woo!
5|Great product
4|It got here very fast and has been working great ever since.
5|Perfect
5|I travel a lot for wildlife shoots across the country. I'm a serious photography hobbyist but I want to make sure my photos are safe and secure so I don't lose them. I purchased two of the Seagate Backup Plus Slim drives. For a few dollars more I went with the 2TB model. I use a MacBook Pro on the road and a PC at home so I formatted both drives for exfat so they would be compatible with both platforms. I copy all of my images to both of the drives I purchased in case one should fail. I've used these drives for several trips so far and they're working perfectly. Pretty good read and write speeds and much faster compared to some of my older external drives. They're very small and thin so they don't add much weight to my camera bag. For the price, it was a solid purchase for my needs.
5|No problems so far, only problem that I have is how fast I'm filling it up with movies and music I have. Don't realize what you got. ..until it's on a external hard drive
4|great for upgrading my ps4 from 500g to 2tb was simple and easy. Just pull the hd out of the case and slip it in to you ps4 and your good to go. Just remember to back up your ps4 1st. If your nervous about doing it yourself go on youtube and there are plenty of videos about it.
5|Rather than settle for a 1 TB drive, the pricing of this compact unit allowed me to plan for growth. It arrived in a timely fashion and was simple to install.
5|Super quick, easy, fast, TRUST-WORTHY, and works everytime. I have had numerous WD and other brands of external hard drives that I use to store different media and work files on. This is the first one that has worked as advertised.
5|EXCELLENT!!!
5|Its a good brand and worth money
5|great for backup and movies.
5|simple and good!
3|The software supporting this Seagate Backup was not good. My previous Seagate was superb, but this one has not been easy to work with and I have been trying for 3 weeks to get the "dashboard" of the external drive to record and to record at a specific time.
5|Very good... in speed and built and very handy... very good...
5|Its worked great, just what I needed for backing up all my pictures!
5|I've been using these little external backup drives for several years and they've never disappointed me. This one is FAST!!! It's a pleasure to use. The interface is intuitive, so is also easy to use.
5|This was recommended and worked great!
1|keeps rebooting, so when i'm working on a video project in premiere the entire project goes blank and I lose all the video files and have to stop, unable to save the current progress and have to restart the entire project. Bought it for my laptop but it has proved itself completely useless for video editing, even though its advertised as a fast drive. now its just sitting on my desk with no point to its purchase.
5|High speed and quality
4|A lot of storage, good looks, just seems a bit flimsy.....
5|Light and nice!
4|So far, after installing and having the Seagate Dashboard software not work again and again after reinstalling it on a windows 7 computer, I was able to find the error on their website. Error=Dashboard Freezes when starting scan. Fix, use the system tray to quit program and restart. Did work after. Not altogether thrilled, but if it continues to do the job, and I'm optimistic it will, it gets 4 stars.
5|So far so good, hope it last for more then 3 years. I had an other brand, It lasted for 3 years, thats why I had to buy a new back up system.
5|Bought it as a gift for a friend. She loves it and honestly it looks much better in reality. Super Sleek
5|Great product .. You should go for it. 10/10
5|Greatest hard drive and very Fast
4|Seems to work O.K. It is quite compact (you could put it in a shirt pocket) and reasonably fast and easy to use. Haven't had it long enough to comment on reliability, but assume it is typical of Seagate products, mostly reliable.
5|Great drive.
1|Don't bother refuses to backup data on Mac time machine
5|Only had for several months for my iMac 2011 but it was very easy to use with the Time Machine. Backs up quickly after initial back up and doesn't take up a lot of room on my small desk! Love it so far!
5|Wirecutter recommended as best. Works fine. Looks nice.
5|Works well
4|Great hard drive and quick delivery.
5|Good
3|Too early to say anything about dependability, but it's quiet. Not particularly fast, just average for this type of drive. Bus powering is a plus.
1|Bought this in March. It failed in May. Had all of my pictures on it. Seagate said that I should have backed it up. So basically, I should back up my backup. Maybe it was just a bad batch.....but, shouldn't happen after a couple of months.
4|Excellent product, delivery on time
5|Great lil HD. Affordable, stable, no issues with it. Have even been eddying video on it with no issues. Take it everywhere.
5|I've been using this for a week now. So far, I am loving it. I got the silver/gray version of this external hard drive. I find it fast, slim, and really light. I don't mind taking this with me whenever I travel.
1|I purchased this last August and a few months later, this hard drive crashed. It makes a beeping sound each time I connect it to my computer and does not recognise itself anymore. Do not purchase this product it you don't want to loose all your data.
4|Good but would rather had it in red and mac ready. Still, all in all for the price a good option.
4|I like its appearance and texture, good , if have more beautiful color
5|It's great!
1|Mine crapped out after sparse use for a couple years. The hard drive head got stuck to the platter. I replaced it in the case with an old 100 gb I had and that works but only holds 1/10th the data :)
5|I don't know how this is going to work. I did alot of research before buying this particular item. From my understanding the only default is it may be tricky to set up. It's light weight looks good. And if it stand true to the reviews I got a winner.
5|Excellent product! Everthing it was advertised to be!
1|I own lots of external hard drives and this is the absolute worst of them all. The first one I received wasn't recognized by computers so I replaced it. I was more patient with the second and usually computers recognized it although it often took 1 minute or more!. Now my replacement has decided it will only work on certain computers but it's slightly past my 30 day window for return. Unbelievably bad product even when it (seemed to) work correctly.
5|my seagate backup plus slim 1tb portable external hard drive didn't even last 3 months before it just crashed without warning. the same happened with someone I knew who also bought one. and from reading some of the reviews here I wouldn't recommend you buy this product. at first I thought it was the perfect product but now I cant say that anymore. I have lost over 500g of music so now I have to start over from scratch. if you don't want to end up like me and lose everything just choose a different brand of hard drive.
1|Do not install the backup software if you are using Mac, iMac did not boot after the restart executed by this software, spend 4 hours with Apple Care to get my 2014 Mac back in working order. Buy either the Mac only version or format the drive right away.
5|Works great with my Mac Mini!
5|This external backup disk comes with a good backup program. I have used it for a while and am pleased I made the purchase. I am now also using it on my Netgear router as a network storage device, and it is performing well. These drives are easily transportable - I bought an Amazon Basics hard carrying case for when we travel.
5|Great little drive. I'd also recommend getting the Data Recovery Plan for it, just in case it does fail.
5|good^^
5|Very fast! From the order to receive less than 20 days time,The package is formal and complete,Such a small volume, there is so much storage space,Let me feel very satisfied.Blue metallic shell,Looks very good texture,No damage appearance,The transportation is well protected.Noise is very small in the process of using,The white linear indicator has a high-tech experience.Storage speed of about every minute 108M,I‘m very satisfied with the shopping experience in Amazon
2|I bought this drive to backup my Apple toys (Macbook Pro, iPad & 2 iPhones in my house). Unfortunately, Seagate backup over the home wireless network does not work. I called Seagate customer support, they asked me to try different things and it still did not work. Finally, the rep said there is a bug in the App that they can't figure it out. So, backup over the wireless network won't work for me. They don't know what causes this. I was told to try backup over the cloud. Why should I upload my data to cloud to sync up external drive? I bought this especially for my mac. I already had another seagate drive for my windows PC. Its a waste of money if the product can't do what Seagate mentions.
5|I bought this product to upgrade my playstation 4's HDD and I have to admit this hard drive gets the job done.
5|Worked great with my Mac Time Keeper Backup Program. Helped me save numerous files.
5|Excellent backup device. Easy to use.
5|does a good job
5|Good price, fast, and 2 whole TB! 5 stars!
5|Portable drive worked as expected. Easy to carry around. No problems whatsoever.
5|As described
5|I love this external drive! I have been using it on my 2013 retina macbook pro, and have not had any issues. I have windows 8 on my laptop through bootcamp, so I found the need to partition the drive. I used "disk utility" (the native mac program) to partition the drive into 3 sections. I split it into: - a 400 GB Mac OS Extended (Journaled) to be used for osx time machine backups - a 200 GB NTFS partition to be used for windows backups - the rest was a 1.4 TB ExFAT partition which I used for common file storage, which can be accessed by a mac or windows os. This has worked out great for me, and have had no issues with the disk formats. ExFAT works seamlessly between the two operating systems, and the backups work great too. I have never used the Seagate software, and there is really no need to in my eyes. The native backup programs do their job well, and I don't know what more you could need.
4|I never had a backup external drive before so this is all unfamiliar territory for me. I have an old Macbook, hooked this up, and it worked fine just using Time Machine. I didn't even read the instruction booklet. The initial backup went fine and took less than an hour. I just did another backup and there was no problems. 2 TB is way more than what I ended up needing.
5|Great hard drive.
5|Very compact and attractive case. Fast file transfer. Very happy with this purchase.
5|Very Handy!!!
1|Breaks Down after 6 months of usage. Never was compatible between Windows and Mac as advertised. On 1 fine day, I got an error saying that Drive Failed and I lost all my Data. I also started to doubt if this product I received is NEW or was REFURBISHED. I wouldn't recommend buying from here.
4|Initial experience was not fun - froze my PC after downloading the software. Restarted and eventually ran OK again. Software did NOT make it clear what was being backed up - I was particularly concerned about my photos and favorites. Examined the Directory of the disc as best I could afterwards, and still was unable to determine whether they had been saved. Sent email question to support group - they replied within 24 hours, but the process for determining what had and hadn't been backed up seemed quite complicated. (No, I'm no PC expert.) Then learned I could backup to the disc via the standard Windows File History software. Proceeded with that option, and am now proceeding down a known path that I've used previously with other drives.
1|NOT AT ALL MAC FRIENDLY. This is advertised as something that works with Mac and time machine BUT it is a huge hassle to try to get it working with your Mac because: 1. This is formatted for windows 2. They fail to give you a step by step instruction about how to reformat it. I just installed it and immediately got a Time Machine error message!!! Shame on Seagate
5|Great price for a nice size HD, I keep my extra DVR shows on it, easy to move from room to room, and no external power needed.
5|Excellent little hard drive. This is my first Seagate (Previously only used Buffalo) and this little guy is fast as hell, quiet and packs a punch. USB 3.0 is awesome - runs smooth on a 2.0 also.
5|Compact, easy to use, nice finish and feel.
5|worked perfectly
5|good!! i like it!
5|Seagate... enough said. I have been using them forever and they have always been reliable. This is my 3rd Backup Plus Slim. Can be used for both PC and Mac (pre-installed software that is completed with initial set-up). It is also compatible with Xbox One for those of you who might be interested. My advice though is wait for the purchase. Seagate usually has a sale every other week/every 3rd week. The price on these will drop 10-20 bucks. Thats the time to buy them.
4|It's compact and it's got a good transfer rate.
5|Good
5|This hard drive works great and is very small. I forget it's even attached to my computer!
1|I purchased this product because I have a new computer with USB 3.0. I backup using external hard drives. Before I purchased this product I have been using USB 2.0 hard drives. I figured why not take advantage of USB 3.0 transfer speeds and upgrade to a USB 3.0 external drive. Well, this drive isn't the answer! Just before purchasing this product I did a backup to my external USB 2.0 drive. Here are the results; 465.76 GB, FINISHED with elapsed time: 04hr:04min:45sec. I then did the exact same backup using the same software using this Seagate USB 3.0 drive. I am using a USB 3.0 port on my computer in case you are wondering. Here are the results; 465.76 GB, I STOPPED the backup after elapsed time: 09hr:40min:41sec with only 73% completed! Forget about it! What a piece of crap! USB 3.0 really? I'll give this drive away to someone I don't like! Pros: Slim design Nice looking Cons: Horrible write speeds! The included USB 3.0 cable is only 12" long! The drive runs, and runs, and runs without even accessing it! Included software is garbage.
5|I bought this on sale and it's the biggest backup drive I have so far. I still haven't used 1/4 of it. It came with a leaflet, a cable and the drive. I like the size because it's not too big. It can fit in your shirt pocket. It's also slim. It's using USB 3.0 connectivity. I don't have a USB 3.0 port but it's still pretty fast with USB 2.0. It's also very quiet when copying data. Although it's a 2TB drive, there are system files in it which you can remove. For me, I just leave them there. 2TB is too big for me and I won't be able to fill it anytime soon. The data cable has USB 3.0 Micro-B plug on one side and a standard USB port on the other. It's a pretty short cable and it does not easily bend. If you want to back up your data, you don't have a choice but to have the drive a bit close to the source. I'm not sure how it will handle falls, but I think it will be broken when it falls.
4|I've had this drive for about a month now. So far it is working fine. The read/write speeds are very fast. The drive itself is compact and nicely self-powered by USB.
5|Used it to switch hard drive on my PS4 because 500gb was not enough. With this I now have a 2TB PS4.
5|As advertised.
1|After only 5 months, this backup quit communicating with the computer, and sounds like a rattle, perhaps a disk issue. No support/ response from Seagate technical service. A total waste of money.
5|It is thinner than my expectation. I love it
5|Excellent! The space and portability I need with a drive! Makes my life so much easier! Delivered in a timely fashion and the drive is very fast.
4|. You think it stopped working, then you see something after 10 seconds or so.
5|Very user friendly, just plug n play! Using for my Xbox one and loving the extra memory. Only downside is that it formats only to the Xbox once installed.
5|Great product. Simple to use and works with my mac
5|this is the best external hard drive I have ever had, its size and weight is unbeatable. never had any problem using this drive on my different devices and I can regularly backup my data on different devices on this hard drive. definitely would recommend it
4|I have some problem understanding it. I'm not computer literate, so it takes a while for me to learn all that it can do.
4|So far, so great!!!
5|Got the Backup Plus Fast 4TB for Xbox One external it is plug and play fully USB powered. I use the included Y cable and plug in both USB ports and it works great, never tried using just one, the Xbox one has 3 USB ports. When installed you have 3.7TB of usable space on the external. Plus you still have the internal hard drive space on top of that. The hard drive is very fast with very high read and write speeds. Faster load times, installs, texture streamimg, in game assets loading etc. Love the drive so far we will see how long the drive lasts. For me the RAID 0 configuration isn't a problem when using this for Xbox One. If it did fail because of RAID 0 it's only game installs lost which could easily be re installed and it comes with a 3 year warranty. Best portable drive for the price that I could find and I couldn't justify spending more with this drive available. Got it for about 209.
5|Took it out of the case and upgraded my PS4 to 2TB. Works get as the harddrive is a samsung MT9 spinpoint 9mm.
4|i am happy with his.lightweight and well built
5|quick delivery. product as described. good price
4|It works but shipping box was damaged and it had no handle with care stickers. Actual disc box was perfect. So I'm keeping it.
5|Solved an issue that I had with Windows 8.1. Windows 8.1 does not recognize external drives that do not rely on USB port for power (those that come with their own power supply). Because this drive uses only USB power, Windows 8.1 could detect it. Works as stated.
5|No problems
5|I use this just a couple time, it's very easy to copy stuff from my computer to this Seagate Backup Plus Slim Portable.
4|As advertised, works well thus far.
5|Excellent drive and its very thin and is very fast. My USB 2.0 quad core HP computer rights at up to 50MB/s where most other external USB 2.0 drives don't exceed 30MB/s. I purchases several different colors of this drive and my customer's love them. I also purchased several Seagate leather cases with zippers on the Seagate site for about $10 to $15 and fit perfectly (snug) I love both purchases and am trying to purchase the drive cases at discounted prices to sell on Amazon, EBay, or Craigslist. I recommend this drive.
4|USB 3.0 speeds are way faster than the drive. No power bricks or wall-warts needed. Just plug it in to the back of your Mac point the Time Machine at the drive and let 'er rip. I/O is actually pretty slow, but that's a reflection on the dainty power requirements. Backup is background, and Restoring hardly ever happens, so I don't really need blazing fast as much as I need something that requires nothing more than one USB cable to work. [edit] I also have another one of these dedicated as the backup target for my household NAS. It works great with Synology DSM backup software. Plug and Play.
5|great product
5|Works great with my Xbox One.
5|great reliable product. It read really fast, and cable can be attached to your lap top devices firmly.
2|junk
5|Excellent
5|Amazing product for amazing price! Loved it!
5|So far I am very satisfied with this product.
5|The backup system is really easy to use with both Macs and PCs. Easy install and instructions. Glad I got it! I also love the slim size of it as well.
5|Great product and price.
5|Best drive I've experienced so far...
5|Just what i needed
1|red cap was bent!
1|I have attempted to do a Time Machine backup several times, but even after running for over 24 hours, the backup seems to get hung when it is less than 20% done. I attempted reformats, with and without partitioning (my intent was to use this drive to have an off-network Time Machine backup, as well as a flat-file backup that could be readable by Windows as well as Mac machines). I contacted Seagate customer support, and they were helpful and responsive, but even trying their suggestions (most of which I had done previously on my own), but the issue is not resolved. They suggested I return the disk for a different product (the Backup Plus for Mac). Their recommendation was "To determine if the drive is the issue or the USB 3.0 ports are causing the slow transfer, I recommend connecting the drive to a USB 2.0 port on the computer if you have one. Try running the Time Machine backup again and see if it is going faster than the USB 3.0 transfer. If it is, the drive is causing the issue and I recommend exchanging it for the Backup Plus for Mac drive. The chipsets are different from the PC version and Mac version and this can affect the transfer rate. I would refer you to the point of sale for the exchange. Be sure to get the drive that says "For Mac" not "For Mac and PC". I only have USB 3.0 on my Mac (running 10.10.3, and I have a 2TB disk with about 300 Gb used). In theory, USB 3.0 is 5 Gbps, but I would assume that is a burst speed. Having said that, I would think the Time Machine backup would complete within 24 hours. Prior to that backup, I did a straight copy of all my files, and the straight copy did complete overnight. Because my mac is a MacBook (laptop), leaving a backup running for multiple days is not acceptable. I did do a secure erase using an unused Mac (USB 2.0), and that secure erase took 4 days to complete (just adding this as a data point). I am not sure I will return the drive, though, because I still have concerns about what will happen to it (I know I'm being really paranoid, given that I did the secure erase).
5|Great product. Small, light weight and fast with the latest generation USB.
5|I don't think people realize what an incredible product this is. Not everyone uses large drives for long-term storage, many professions like computer forensics and digital video editing require large capacity, portability, and very fast speeds, while the risk of Raid failure is not a concern as archive copies will be made. The BUP Fast is basically a 4TB portable drive with SSD-like write speeds for <$250.
5|Very sturdy and well packaged. Can't wait to back up all my precious pics! Would buy from again!
5|for back up my computer,it is useful
5|works great as my laptop drive backup
5|All good!
5|easy to use, works well
5|Item as described fast shipping worked great in my ps4 ty
5|This product is good and work well in Mac.
5|Works fast and user friendly.
5|good.
4|Didn't get the color I ordered but product works great!
5|Great product.
5|Easy to use, very quiet and fairly small & portable. Pretty good.
5|GReat
5|Well packaged! Purchased as gift. Exactly as described
5|Love it so far; it's working flawlessly.
5|Working great so far!
3|This Seagate drive seems to work well as far as the hardware is concerned, but apparently it is incompatible with the Photos app on a Mac under OS 10.10.3. I installed the required driver from Seagate and was able to read and write files, but when I tried to use it as an external storage drive for my photos (the main reason I bought it), I got an error message from Photos complaining that the format is incompatible. I swapped it with a different portable drive (from LaCie) which I had been using for backups, and the Photos app works fine. I am now using the Seagate drive for backups (replacing the LaCie drive), and it's working well for me, so not a big problem in my situation. Just be warned that the formatting may make this Seagate drive incompatible with some Mac applications.
5|Great size, very fast, no noise.
5|Good
5|Small, simple, and it just works!
1|WiFi backup stalls every single time. No option to create a backup plan for a sub folder on HD of a computer. Unfathomable design decision.
5|Small, compact, fast.
1|Thank you Seagate for destroying all that has value. After approximately 1 month usage, the Drive, Not controller gave out and all my irreplaceable data has forever gone loss. This drive was used as a back up while my computer was being fixed. Would not recommend be careful and have a back up for your back ups
3|I have a lot hate relationship with this. I love it because it stores a lot and it might just be my computer but I find I have to shutdown and reboot up my computer a few times before the hard drive? will even be recognized or turn on.
5|Works fine. I like the physical size--think cell phone--makes it easy to transport.
5|great!
5|this should last me for awhile.
5|Works great! Can't beat the price. Pretty fast via USB 3.0
5|Awesomest external hard drives
5|Is a fantastic size, worked great and a good price - what more can I say?
5|Great value!
5|Functionally solid and silent.
1|spoils in less than 9months without even using it often.
4|Is there a THUNDERBOLT CABLE like the USB one that comes with it instead of a THUNDERBOLT ADAPTER? I have the 1TB model SRD00F1
5|Its slim and much cheaper than korean usual price im satisfied
5|Good product at a great price. Arrived really fast.
5|Just as described
4|Good to go easy to use. Just make sure you use the right cord. I didn't and thought it was defective... I'm kinda dumb lol
5|Good
5|Ultra portable. Size almost equal to iPhone 5. Very impressed.
5|Perfect back up, better than cloud.
5|Seagate has never let me down. There hard drives last forever, I have never had problems with them crashing on me.
5|Works great. Easy to use, very vesatile
4|Worked well and fast for me. Interestingly my friend got the same one and it seemed to be defective. It's very convenient and I reformatted it and had no problems and the USB3 speed was fast enough for my 'semi high-demands'
4|good
2|This Seagate 2TB external HD is fine as just that. Where I don't like it is the Seagate backup software - Dashboard. The install file that comes with the drive will install an older version, which is fine, except it won't let you create a backup job. Since this drive is sold as a backup hd, the software not working is a really big issue. So I tried to get the software from the Seagate site, which was down adding to my frustration. Well, hours later, I finally got to their site and downloaded the dashboard software and installed it. As soon as it started, it told me there was an updated version. This was really perplexing since I downloaded the software from their site. One would think a company would have the latest version for downloading??? So I downloaded the latest version and installed it. BTW, this software installer is not the fastest thing around. So I finally have the latest version of dashboard loaded. Once again I tried to set up a backup job and the software would not let me do that. Who is running this company? and do they even understand their business??? All-in-all, I am very disappointed with Seagate. I doubt if I'll every buy from them again. Fortunately, I have a Western Digital ExtHD that came with their backup software, WD Smartware. Smartware is very easy to use so I set up the Seagate drive as a backup using the WD software. If you are not adept with computers/software/HD backup, I would advise staying away from Seagate products. Go with Western Digital, or at a minimum, get the WD Smartware software to use with any hard drive, external or internal or any other storage device.
5|Great size and capacity.Really nice product!
3|Originally bought it to use with my Ps4, but alas the ps4 does not read it. It's now connected to my PC as a back-up hard drive, but I have a base hard drive of 1tb already installed, so my seagate is collecting dust. I might however do some data transfer with my ps4 stock hdd and replace it with my seagate.
5|Love the size for so much storage!
5|good
5|Can be opened to replace the HDD of a PS4. I did this and then I put my old PS4 HDD into this box and it's been working perfectly.
4|I'm using this drive as a backup for my Mac, but not a time-machine backup. Figuring out how to do that was a huge pain and Seagate is far from helpful as their documentation is generally garbage. For example, their "mac" instructions all talk about windows. It's great. But, I found instructions on how to get rid of all the Seagate Dashboard junk and just use the drive as an external drive. I partitioned, cleaned out the Seagate software, and I am currently backing up a decade's worth of photos, videos, and data. So apart from the hassle of actually getting this thing running, it's working fine now. I got the 2TB for $90, and now that I figured out how to get rid of the Seagate software, this thing is working pretty well. Oh, and it's tiny. Here's the link to the instructions on formatting the drive. http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/207851en?language=en_US
2|Used it with my Mac to keep my iTunes library externally. Unfortunately would randomly disconnect and several times corrupt the iTunes library, which is a major pain. I finally gave up and purchased another 4 TB Fantom Drive with native Mac formatting and Firewire connector. Much more reliable, haven't had a single corrupt iTunes file. Would not buy this Seagate for Mac usage, despite the indication that it supports both formats.
5|Works as advertised. Very handy
5|This is a phenomenal External hard drive. I've had about three external hard drives since I got my Macbook Pro in 2012 and I have to say this one has to be the best. Pros: -Requires no configuration -Works with Mac as well as PC -Very thin design -Low cost compared to other external hard drives. Cons: -None yet
5|Installed in my ps4 so far it's beautiful
5|Works like it should.
5|good
5|I had (and still have) earlier versions. I needed to expand my local back-up options because I have more 'stuff' now. This is solid, and works great. I also immediately delete their back-up program (I use Synchback software -- which is wonderful!) and then reformat and DSKCHK the drive so I know it's sound. (I use one of the earlier versions now for my Disk Image backup. I use the two others as 'feeders' to my Roku box; I pull documentaries off YouTube and play them in other rooms.) (Okay, I've gotta write it, cause it makes me laugh: the first two (red and blue) I named ThingOne and ThingTwo. Then the next one, a silver one, I named HiYoSilver. The next one after that (black) I named Zorro. This new black one I also named Zorro, and renamed the original Zorro2. The new blue one I named BlueFish. (Yes, I'm thinking I need to buy a new red one too... you can never have too many right? Uh, right?)
5|this is very good
5|High performance and low price?Like it very much?
5|good price, works perfect
5|I love the design and performance. Sleek and slim easy portable. Attractive design.
3|4 stars for using a real SATA drive inside Opened it up with finger nails - no tools needed Peeled back foil and detached USB3 - SATA adapter Inserted into MacBook Pro 15" DVD adapter that held the original 750G drive as part of a 750+250 fusion pair Booted Mac - it asked to repair fusion drive - nice - no Terminal needed But... Time Machine restore from another one of this model attached to USB failed... restarted, tried again, failed. Opened computer back up, swapped SSD & HD positions Booted into Time Machine and it's restoring now. Errors when restore hits the HD portion of the fusion drive. This drive seems to be faulty. Makes me wonder if 2TB doesn't work with DVD's SATA or if it needs a firmware update. I presume SSD is slower in the adapter - but not sure.
3|Got this as a gift about a month ago. I have a Win 7 machine that is about a year old with an internal Intel solid state hard drive and a Western Digital external hard drive. I have my operating system and related programs on the SSD and use the WD external drive to store my other files such as pictures, documents, vids, etc. I installed the Seagate Dashboard and selected the WD drive and set it to back up continuously. Earlier today I went to look for a PDF file and could not access the WD drive as it was no longer recognized by the computer. I thought it wasn't a big deal, as I had the Seagate drive and surely all of my files were on that. Not quite. Opening the Seagate drive revealed a bunch of folders but they were mostly empty. On the verge of panic I rebooted the WD drive and fortunately it was recognized again and all of my files remained intact. I immediately opened "my computer", selected the WD drive and opened it. I then selected the folder that I wanted and dragged it onto the Seagate drive and it copied everything in about 20 minutes. My advice is to not depend on the Seagate Dashboard exclusively as it may not copy everything that you wanted. Make sure your files have in fact been copied or you may have a nasty surprise waiting for you when you need your data.
4|This is my second Seagate back up drive and it works nicely with my Apple computer.
5|I like the 2TB even more - but these are great.
4|its very slime and nice ~
1|I got a defective one from Amazon (yes, sold and ship by Amazon). I tried everything I could but nothing worked. I deleted and reinstalled the app on both my phone and my laptop like 10 times (literally 10 times, I'm not exaggerating...that's how hard I tried, I really hoped that it would work). I tried to do it on a different phone and computer but still useless. This is very disappointing!! I was so excited when I received it, sadly the process was just a mess. And when I removed the app from my laptop, it even froze my laptop. I am that unlucky one :(
5|Works well on my mac and pc! Have always trusted this brand. I highly recommend.
2|not bad. but delivery is awful.
5|I formatted it for my Mac and use it as a backup. So far it has had no problems.
1|does not work, do I really have to send this back. It is garbage. wasted money, I want my refund or a working one
5|Loved it ... used it to upgrade my PS4.
4|Overall is great. Only the interface is a bit slow and difficult to organizer the files.
5|I LIKE THE SLIM DESIGN OF THIS AND THE QUICK SPEED TO TRANSFER THE DATA!
5|I ripped out the drive and put in my ps4. It was cheaper to buy this rather than the drive by itself. Works great.
1|I can't cancel this. Idk why.
5|Perfect for upgrading a PS4!
5|very light and practical.
5|was worth the money.. now I can backup project files from server to take on the road to use on laptop as needed...
5|LIGHT AND FAST!
5|brand new and it is working great so far. Thanks.
4|Small and works well.
5|Small portable 2TB HDD, Works great for photo storage, music, video's and other media. Use on pc, laptops and more. Comes with a two year warranty and a connector cable as well. I used mine to expand the storage on my ps4 **NOTE** (once you pry the hard drive casing apart it voids the two year warranty). Ships fast in very safe packaging... Over-satisfied with the product and plan to purchase another in the future.
5|Small and cute, speed is high if connected with USB3.0
5|Awesome add-on to your data storage. Easy to set up and use, light and smaller than most. Not actually 2TB storage, more like 1.8TB because of the background files for the system.
5|Great 2TB HDD replacement for PS4 you have to take the unit apart if you don't damage the casing or 3.0 USB you can use old PS4 HDD pop it in and erase it with your computer and reformat and your good to go!
5|Just as described!
5|Great price and I do like it because we have purchased 3 last year and 1 this year. We use some of them on a MAC and others on a PC. Thanks for a stable product. Ron
5|Very light, very like
5|Slim Size is awesome
2|First off, the drive wasn't bought at Amazon because I had a gift card at another company that I used for the purchase. But I couldn't find any place to rate it with that company. The drive worked for 4 days then stopped working. I noticed that the light was not on just before turning my computer off, but didn't give that much thought. When I tried to start my computer the next morning it would not boot. I have an Alienware computer and it would not go past the alien head. I tried restarting it 3 times, same results. The Seagate Backup plus was plugged into the front USB 3 port which was the easiest to get to so that's the one I unplugged first. After doing that the computer would boot normal. Re-started and booted right up 3 more times. Just out of curiosity I plugged the drive back in, tried to re-start the computer and was back to the no boot thing. So something in that drive is causing the computer not to boot with the drive plugged in. Also tried the other USB 3 port with the same results. I checked in the BIOS to make sure nothing was changed there. The company is sending a replacement drive which I should have in a couple days, this time I ordered a 6 foot USB 3 extension cable so I can move the drive completely away from the computer and monitor just in case. That 18 inch cord that comes with the drive just doesn't cut it when the drive is being used on a desktop computer. I have been using Seagate products for years with no problems. Will see what happens with the new drive coming.
5|Daughter talked me out of it. So didn't get to use. LOL
5|good
5|Great Buy
5|for my friend. have not open the box . but looks good
4|graduation present to track papers.
5|Bought this as a backup drive for my laptop. It works perfectly and I am happy with it.
5|product of exelente quality product
4|I've been using this for almost a year with my Mac Mini. ZERO problems. Didn't try the Seagate software but why bother? Apple's Time Machine backs it up perfectly and is a no-brainer.
5|Excellent product!!!
5|Fair price and fast shipping
5|Portable hard disk drive for laptop and works well with Ipad also (using my laptop). Amazing how small it is and with the added case I bought - Superb !
5|Note that you cannot upgrade your PS3 using this HDD. I've gotten the message: The installed hard disk is not supported. You must install a hard disk that is compatible with this system. Note that the HDD inside STDR2000100 is ST2000LM003. My PS3 Super Slim FW is 4.70 I've formatted the HDD to Fat32 using FAT32 Format http://www.pendriveapps.com/format-fat32-larger-than-32gb/
5|great price solid product
5|very good
5|Good!
5|good product
5|Awesome and beautiful. Waaaooooww, receivedit on tym earlier than expected and I love how it looks , it portability , slimness and how it works easily and effectively. Honestly I so happy with the device. Good job Seagate.
5|Handy size and very fast in transferring files.
5|good
5|good thanks!
5|EXCELENTE
5|very good.
1|I started having problem right away when I noticed that the cord connecting the hard drive to my computer was loose. The drive would frequently force eject itself just because I moved it a few inches. I contacted the seller after a month asking for a refund, but I never heard back from them. I kept using it, and just tried to be gentler on it. But now, less than a year after I bought it, it has completely failed. My computer froze during a time machine back up. Upon restarting my computer, the external drive wasn't visible. I tried ejecting and plugging it back in. Eventually I got a pop up saying the drive wasn't formatted and couldn't be read by my computer. I tried it on another mac and got the same pop up. In other words, I lost ALL of my data. My time machine backups, my archived documents. Everything. FURTHERMORE, when I gave up all hope of finding my lost data and decided to wipe the drive and start over, I couldn't. I went through the process and thought I was able to reformat it, but Time Machine wouldn't recognize it. After restarting my computer, the drive doesn't even show up any more as being connected. So I spent $70 to use this for less than a year, have it lose all my data, and to be unable to reformat it or use it all. It is literally useless.
4|good
5|Bought to add storage space for my XBone...worked well and easy to set up.
5|good deal
2|Unacceptable frailty. It fell from the top of my two foot tall case onto a carpeted floor 20 minutes ago and is now inoperable. This is the only time it has fallen since I purchased the device. Second Seagate purchase in a decade, and both hard drives--one internal and this external--both failed randomly. Going to try their return department to see what can be done about this. I could see if it fell on hard wood, concrete, brick, or something. It slid off the case and fell flush to the carpet near soundlessly. If I hadn't saw it, I wouldn't have even known it fell based on audible clues.
2|I've had the drive for a year. No catastrophic problems, but annoying as hell. Often, but not always, when my laptop boots, the drive fails to initiate. I have to unplug the USB cable from the drive-connection end and plug it in again, once or several times, before it starts. It was this way from day one, regardless of whether the connection is directly to the laptop or though an AC powered USB hub. Once it initiates, that's no guarantee it will remain active. Sometimes, I have to unplug/replug again. I also have a second Seagate external drive. It turns itself on and off randomly. I have a third external drive (Transcend SSD) that works perfectly; so I don't think the problem is with the laptop.
5|This Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB Portable External drive works effortlessly and well. I have not tried the Seagate backup software since I use Carbon Copy Cloner on my MacBook Pro (which also runs a software-based virtual machine for Microsoft and PC-based software). This is my second backup drive. I overcame a bad experience with my first backup drive (another manufacturer with a 4 letter name) and a later PC laptop crash (same manufacturer). Although all data was backed up online, reloading the software and restoring the laptop was impossible. I now use a MacBook Pro and this drive backs up the Mac (and virtual machine). Learn from my experience and test your backup drive before you need it. I can run my MacBook (and virtual machine) from the backup drive if necessary.
5|very good
5|Good for use.The transmission speed is quick.
5|So Great ! fase delivery, works well. thank you for product!
5|Exactly what I needed and it performs better than I thought.
5|it's light and slim. good workmanship
5|I got this for using HDD upgrade for my PS4. Works perfectly. Also nice case.
5|Excellent purchase, convenient shipping
5|This backup drive was a seamless addition to my MacBook Pro and it serves as my time machine drive. No complaints, and it takes up almost no real estate on my desk.
5|Love the price for the storage also backs up my phone wireless so cool
5|With discount very cost efficient, good product!
5|2 terabytes for less than $100 dollars ? Crazy ! Good, fast and reliable. I use it to store all my photographs with a Nikon D5200: I plug the Seagate in a USB-port and the SD-card in the reader, and transfer them through the computer. Fast, easy and moreover, it automatically backs your stuff up ! 5 stars, for fast, reliable back-ups and storage !
5|Small and fast USB 3. When I travel this goes with me and my Mac Mini.
5|Pros: Easy to use Very sleek Good capacity Cons: None
5|good
2|Your mileage may vary, really depends why you are considering these types of devices. I wanted to do large backups using USB 3 ports. That seems to be trickier for some people and computers. In real world senarios USB 3 whould be 4 or 5 times faster than USB 2, so when backing up gigabytes of data that is an important capability. I have been adjusting power settings, disk drive caching, Windows drivers, bios, rebooting for two days. Nothing seems to get this device stable and running backups at usable speeds ( Windows 7 Home premium, I7 processor, 8GB ram). That fails the plug and play test in my book. These devices seem to work wonderfully for some, but a google search will find lots of internet chatter about painfully slow speeds and random disconnects. Might not be entirely this device, but simply the variables of laptop, Windows, usb controllers, blah, blah, blah.
5|love it!
4|Its very good
5|I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS. I paid $69.99 for it. It was smaller than I expected. Looks very cool.
1|Perfect. Update July 19, 2015 Well, it was too good to be true. The Backup took a dump last week. Complete failure. Lost all of the data. Not happy.
5|excellent
5|I used this as a replacement drive for my PS4 and it worked perfectly. I was able to place that drive inside this case without any issues. So far no issues.
5|Very easy to use and set up. I partitioned it to use as both external storage and my Mac's time machine backup. It's also very portable. Love the color and ease of use.
5|Meets expectations. Simple drag and drop files while connected via provided USB or use the provided software (haven't tried this yet). Simple design seems durable so far and it travels across the globe with me for business
5|I loved the product... :)
1|Already own several external drives from seagate, never had a issue. Bought another a few months ago & it failed in less than a month. Contacted seagate & received a new one through an Advanced Replacement Order. Sent the failed drive back & thought all was well. About 3-4 weeks later my failed drive was shipped back to me with no explanation & I got a $280 recovery charge on my credit card. Could've just went out & bought a new one for the trouble. This will be my last purchase from seagate. It's unfortunate because for the most part the drives have been reliable but I cannot continue to do business with a company that won't stand by its products or its warranty.
5|Very reliable. I love that I can use it on PC and Mac without any issues. I use this hard drive for work when traveling between PC work stations and use on my Mac laptop and it has always worked great. Also I have a Mac Air and this is basically my hard drive. You won't regret your purchases.
5|I'm waiting for the 16 TB back up drive---I have too much data...
2|I don't know what the rest of the world considers fast, but this drive took 10 minutes to backup just 5% of what I want to back up (just personal files, not the entire computer like it's automatically set up to do). This, to me, is insanely slow, I mean, over three hours to backup pictures and tax files! How long would it take to backup the entire system.
4|Has lots of memory and was easy to use. The only reason I marked as 4 stars instead of 5 is that the directions weren't very clear, but I am not a tech savy person so I wanted to be sure that what I was doing was correct step by step. I figured it out and did it correctly. I am very happy with it and would purchase again and recommend.
5|The error is the format but after you try it again makes sense.. Are you glad to be affordable. Thank you.
4|THANKS.
5|good
5|met my expectations.
4|It works OK as USB3 external disk. It contains also useful backup software for your PC and smartphone. It would have been better if this software could provide phone contacts and messages in clear readible format instead of requiring to restore them.
4|Reliable and very easy to handle.
5|Great Product!!
5|2015 0428 LOVE, love, love Seagate series USB drives. This is my third terabyte drive. Compact, fast, USB driven, these drives are light weight, travel well and have performed well as backup drives. If they had more colors I'd buy more. Saw green years ago at a store, then nevermore. Uncharacteristically, packing for this shipment was atrocious with the drive battered around loose inside a box with a much larger item but to the drive's credit it was unharmed due to Seagate's protection box. I have red and blue drives as well which were packed and shipped much more securely, still operationally perfect. My seller: Amazon.com, LLC
3|The first one melted down, taking my pictures with it. The second one has been alright.
1|Just received my drive and loaded up Dashboard but NO password option. Are Seagate kidding with their talk of data protection and back up? Their documentation talks vaguely about changing passwords but it appears, that only refers to Seagate Cloud. The most likely element of my IT to be lost or stolen is a very small, lightweight backup drive and yet it is totally unprotected by the Seagate software. I don't want to share photos, music, videos etc through my backup drive...I just want security and this clearly does not give it. Pity I cannot give it zero
3|It's kind of slow but does the job
5|Lot smaller than expected. Does the job.
4|Great hard drive and super portable. My only complaint is that one day the hard drive got bumped and fell off the desk while it was plugged into the computer. It cam unplugged from the cord as it fell. There wasn't any damage but the removal of the hard drive from the computer without ejecting it properly caused the hard drive to lock itself. I had to upload software from the internet to get it unlocked. This may be a safety feature but it sure is a pain. None of my other hard drives are like that. It seems to be unique to Seagate.
5|Great product highly recommended (:
5|I like this hard drive we use it when we travel somewhere to watch movies when we want.
4|Compact, good transfer speed &good look.
1|This external drive completely screwed up my iMac when I tried to install it. The USB ports stopped working, which meant my iMac would not sense my keyboard or mouse. That took 1+ hours to figure out how to get those working again (turns out I had to safe boot, with the drive attached, and switch my keyboard/mouse USB connections to different USB ports…still not sure what was going on or what went wrong). The install process had glitches: I received a cryptic error message at some point about some system file that I have never heard of with a mile long reference (I chalked it up to typical non-meaningful messages and the install continued with no obvious issue), the registration process appeared to work but then reloaded and tried to make me re-register after one of the many reboots to fix my computer, etc. Despite all that, I was able to get the drive to do a single backup, which took many hours. But when I restarted my iMac, for another reason, the next day, I had all the same issues all over again: the USB ports would not work so the iMac would not sense my keyboard/mouse, and I couldn't do anything, so I'd reboot in safe mode yada yada yada…another 30 minutes wasted. I finally disconnected the drive and deleted the software off my iMac and it is fine again. I can't return the product to Amazon because it has a full copy of all my files on it…I don't feel like trying to get the drive to work one last time (and the hour or so that would take) so I can wipe the disk clean, so I'll either be refunded by Amazon out of the kindness of their hearts (I contacted customer service about it) or eat the $68 cost and buy a different product. I do not rule out the fact that my age iMac (2012) may be a factor, but I've also never had a product out of the box do anything this crazy to this computer in 3+ years of owning it and attaching various hardware to it so...
5|Wow. Great price, fast, compact, and über stylish!
5|Ia learningg curve, excellent tech support over phone
5|Works awesome!!!
5|Great product, the best hard drive for the price!
5|Used for my PS4 HD replacement. Put in my old PS4 HD back in this case after the swap. Perfect.
5|Very compact, sleek design...I LOVE this product!
5|Superb and does all I asked it to. Used with Mac and with time machine completely backs up files AND System.
5|Transport capacity, are very satisfied, copy speed in general.
5|Good price. Works great. Great size to carry around.
5|Wonderful drive. Works very nicely. Very reasonable price for 2 TB!
1|Defective unit - returned
1|Have had trouble with this drive, and Seagate, from the start. Different techs contradicted each others advice on troubleshooting. Now, after only 4 months of very light usage, it seems to be irretrievably corrupted and unreadable. I may have lost very dear photos because i stored them on this terrible unstable device. It should be discontinued and recalled - STAY AWAY.
5|Ridiculously and incessant Xbox One updates consumed all of its built-in hard drive space! Bought this portable drive...it arrived quickly...I formatted it and plugged it into the Xbox One (USB port)...and it worked flawlessly. No power adapter is needed.
5|I like it. Huge drive and its fast.
5|easy to set up with my Mac. Was shipped quickly and was well priced. thanks.
5|good price - but just not formatted to a MAC....seagate needs to keep up with technology!
4|I had trouble with this product at first but it resolved itself (although I'm still not sure how to use the Dashboard), the instructions aren't super clear on how to set it up. But aside from that, it works great. I was worried that it would not be compatible with my MacBook Air, since a lot of external drives are not, but it works perfectly and is great for storing all of my files.
5|Great backup device...slim and easy to carry around.
4|Small and very convenient for traveling.
5|Works Great. Just make sure you don't drop it. Can't for a WD to come out with a 4T though.
5|got a bunch of these drives, all working well, hopefully for many years
5|Shipped fast works great
1|First of all, this is the first Seagate HDD I have ever purchased, every other bit of magnetic storage I own comes from Western Digital. I bought this drive as it is one of the most well reviewed portable hard drives sold on Amazon. I cannot comment on the functionality of the drive as it is not recognized by the computer when plugged in. Nothing under my computer, nothing under disk management, and a couple of errors in the device manager. When I couldn't fix it myself, I called Seagate support and had the misfortune of speaking with an unhelpful woman who snapped at me when I couldn't provide the the serial number with sufficient haste. Nope, not today. I don't care if it isn't reviewed quite as well, I'll buy Western Digital drives til I die because of this hassle. Don't buy Seagate. Don't support their brand of "customer service."
4|Nice compact external hard drives. Backup Plus doesn't deal with networked drives so I had to get a different backup software. The drives are compact and very quiet!
5|WIll definately continue relationship.. Fastest shipping, met expectations and a genuine product
2|Original drive failed within a month of purchasing it. Lost all the data that was on it and Seagate wanted to charge a ridiculous amount of money to "attempt" to recover it. I argued with them about the price of the service since I had just bought the drive, they ought to have attempted to recover my data for no cost as the drive was BRAND NEW! At least they replaced it with a new one, still lost all of my data though. Not a very happy customer.
5|Great disk, works very fast, and is slim, and of a very good looking aspect, it feels sturdy, I love it.
5|Works reliably and very quiet. Highly recommended.
5|works well as advertised
4|Like the older version better....that you can pull the adapter off on the end and use on other drives
5|everything was great
5|This is a very good mobile hard disk.
5|Original authentic
4|Bought this for my PS3 ... Turns out in my experiences and inquiries that PS3 will not except 2TB internally; (1TB yes). How ever it will see and utilize it externally when properly formatted (FAT32). so if using it externally you can leave it in the case as is. Was also cheaper than many other 2TB drives w/o a case.
5|I love it
5|my go to storage device, very portable, and it looks nice
5|Bought this to replace the 500 GB hard drive in PS4. The hard drive fit correctly and is working great. A word of caution on installing the PS4 System Software. Make sure that you are downloading the correct file for when you are re-placing the hard drive. The standard file is 200 MB and will not work. Along the bottom of the page is a download that is 800 MB and is the correct file.
5|lives up to its assignment, it work as i asume.
5|Fast & easy.
5|This was so easy to use it's perfect. Amazon prime membership shipping is the best!
5|great
5|I love the hard drive. Not only is it portable but extremely lightweight. It has been in my bag and has been my backup buddy. Go get one! Give it as a gift to someone and they will thank you. It is fast and reliable. The perfect solution to carrying your pictures when travelling. I have transferred my photos while travelling , so that I have my camera prepped up for more pictures. yay!
1|I'm not usually one to take the time to write reviews, but in this case, I'm compelled to as this particular Seagate Drive has failed not once, but twice! I bought this drive 2 weeks ago, and it failed after a few days, so I returned it to Amazon and ordered another one thinking it was a fluke. Now the second one has failed too, and again, after only a few days of use. I wanted to use this drive as my Time Machine backup on Mac, and in each case, Time Machine eventually fails to back up to the disk, and Disk Utility on Mac is unable to repair the disk, and the problem resurfaces after reformatting the disk.
5|I have ordered this for my sister as a present. She told me the packaging was really great and the product is also great.
1|drive failed within 6 months, I've been asked to pay seagate to use their data recovery services, what a joke. They have DIY software which they charge $99 dollars for. $499 for them to attempt to do it for you!
5|Nice
3|I bought this back in January, and then had to postpone taking the photography class I bought this for, so I only just opened it up and used it. This drive was advertised as being Mac and PC compatible. When I registered the drive, and then formatted it, I chose the Mac only formatting option. It didn't seem to be doing anything, and I wasn't able to copy anything to it. Finally I looked under "get info," and saw that it had been previously formatted (9/2014) to be PC compatible (only), and was "read only." Now it's too late for me to return it. A very expensive lesson for me to test devices as soon as I buy them, and not trust the seller to deliver as advertised. This device was supposed to be new! The seller was Wholesale Memory. UPDATE: This HD does, in fact, arrive formatted for PC. It is not, as stated in its instructions, usable on both platforms. The formatting option I was led through in the set-up didn't work, and it was only after going to Seagate's website that I was able to find the instructions to truly re-format the drive using my disk utility. It would have saved me several hours if this had been stated clearly in the included instructions. But, to be fair, there is nothing wrong with the HD itself. Sometimes being a Mac owner still feels like being left-handed in a right-handed world.
5|Love the slim design.
5|Takes two USB cables to power it up, but it works!
5|works wonderful
5|As described
5|Works like a dream!
5|To preface this, I installed this drive into my ps4. Cracking the case open voids the warranty on the drive. It was cheaper then the standalone drives. This drive gave me all sorts of space on my ps4.
4|Had initial problems with getting the software to work, but called customer support, and they got it to work.
5|Compact, Light Weight, Powered by USB. Definitely recommend for backup storage
1|Does not work w/my MAC only PC
5|it much cheaper than in China, we have to pay $122.41 for it in China
5|USB3.0 is good I tear it open. 1.8'' SAMSUNG disk inside with glue.
5|Fast and secure. Operates on both Mac and Windows. Got a nice deal too
1|Failed after less than a year of light use. Do not buy.
5|It's containing samsung M9T hard disk. I'm using this for my ps4 and works perfect!
5|It work fine on my ps4 just make sure to fallow installation instructions on YouTube videos
5|Just what I needed !
5|nice
5|Am Pleased With Purchase.
5|nice god blessyou
2|No way to password protect your backup as far as I can see.
5|This is my second Seagate back up and has never failed me. The first one is full and needed two for myself. One just for movies and picture backup and the old one for Backup and Music. Great product.
5|It has lots of room. I have started filling
5|I had bought different colors of this to store different media. So far its been quiet and cool.
5|Working fine
5|test averaged 124 MB/Sec on USB 3.0, thinkpad t440s
5|i kove it
5|On time. As expected. Would recommend. Would order again.
4|Easy to use, stores a lot while looking good. Just handle with care, not very protective against drops.
5|awesome!!
4|so far so good :)
4|Works well. One caution: it draws enough power to possibly overload your usb3 port. You may need a powered usb3 hub.
5|Works like a charm after registration and configuring it.
4|A really nice backup drive. Nice feature set in the backup software, and it is very fast for real-time backup as compared to using an online service. The drive is a 5,400 RPM drive so it is slower than the drive on a desktop system so bear that in mind. Easy to use, and it operates on the power from the USB port. The drive is a great value at its price and it does the job. If there is a flaw it is that the software eats up quite a bit of foreground CPU time.
5|Slim, reasonably durable, plug-n-play just worked. Been using it for 6 months with no problems. Using it as my travel back-up drive. Small and sturdy enough to slip in my pocket and be on my person at all times when needed.
5|I LOVE IT!!! What more can I say :)
5|Really pleased. Arrived early. Easy to use, reliable seller.
5|10/10 would penetrate my ps4 with it again
5|Taking it out of the casing and installing it into my ps4 was a breeze. Works fasted and quieter than the original ps4 drive.
4|I will purchase a couple soon but I am still not satisfied with another item
5|Great price, easy to plug in and it has a LOT of storage space.
5|Works great for my Xbox one!
5|Such a great hard drive to use for the PS4, i upgraded it in mine and I have so much more space now.
5|Great product at a reasonable price
5|Outstanding
5|Works great! I love the its slim and that it's quite. I also love being able to have online storage as well if desired.
5|Very good!
1|nice package but that's about it. comes with software that is non-functional (hangs at 6% forever) on more than 1 PC I've tried it on.
5|Works great! Looks awesome. Very small and slim makes it easy to carry. With USB 3 it works like charm! A case should have been included :-)
5|Good price
5|super fast on transfer files and reading
5|I bought this for my PS4, because my hard drive was full, installed this baby after taking it apart and it works perfectly, well worth the money.
5|Works fine-I have several of these
5|Have 3 of them, all working fine on various laptops with a StarTech USB3 adapter card. I have 1 WD slim and it isn't recognized on my Dell Vostro Windows 7 laptop using the same StarTech USB3 adapter card.
5|Using asbackup for systema nd working great
5|This is the second one I've bought. I'm really liking these portable backups. They take up hardly any room on your desk and are easy to tote around. I use them for photographic file storage. Great price for 1TB worth of storage
5|Hasn't broken yet.
5|I love it! quick ship.
3|Love it.
5|Awesome product, awesome seller. Highly recommended.
5|Just right.
5|Best product and good service
1|This crashed within 3 days of using it. I never moved it while it just sat on my desk. Good thing I still had my original files.
5|good
4|The seagate software does not have built in encryption or password protection. Otherwise, would be 5 stars.
5|5*
4|good product!!
5|low price works great shipped fast!!
5|Works great.
5|good product!pretty appearance and useful function!
5|I have purchased two of these. One for my sons Xbox and one for my home computer.
5|Great drive for the price. There is a claim that it does not need to be re-formatted but that was not the case for the one that I recieved. Very easy to format it to work with both operating systems.
5|Love it
5|Delivered as indicated and has been working great!
5|No problems, a good purchase
5|very very good!!! thanks~
5|very good.I love it.
5|good
5|Just a quick note for Mac users. When my Slim came, it was preformatted in Windows so when it was plugged in it only gave me an option of saving to "the cloud". I called Seagate, and after a LONG time on hold, the lady walked me through in seconds how to reformat the hard drive. You have to go through your disk utility. Once it was reformatted it works great. I was about to return it before I talked to the Seagate rep. I told them they should post step by step the easy steps on their website. She said she knows but they just don't??!! By the way I have OS10.10.3
5|Good one!!!!
4|Solid, easy to use device, with very customer friendly interface. Easy to use, Hooray! You know that you should backup your "stuff"; This makes it E-Z!
5|It's amazing how far drives have come. 2 TB smaller then my cell phone. I am a geek. Using this to backup stuff for home and work computers
5|Great value for this item. Nice size and great price!
5|This thing great!
4|good
5|awesome product
5|This is for my daughter. Her old one finally kicked the bucket. She loves it!
5|Great backuo device.
4|Works fine
5|It's good ,2T inside is SAMSUNG‘s disk.service is excellent.
5|Very good product. Perfect size.
5|Outstanding backup and storage device. Quick to install and easy to transfer data.
4|5 Stars for the product. I have used 3 of these babies and this one I got for using as a timemachine backup drive. I am also running an entire Ubuntu off this drive and its fast enough over USB3.0 BUT 3 Stars for how i got it!!!!
4|Adequate for backing up data.
5|Good hard drive. It does not require you to plug into an outlet and it works great with my xbox one
5|Love it
5|I bought two of these-one red and one blue. They are excellent HDs, and I would recommend them for regular use or backup purposes.
5|brilliant
5|This portable disk is perfect for quick connection to my system, taking my backups, then disconnecting it and tucking it away somewhere -- offline. I had been using a NAS, but since it was online all the time, it was vulnerable to hacking. Speed is reasonable on this USB 3.0 device, and monthly backups are convenient with it. The quantity of 2TB will take care of my backups for several months. Of course, it would be neat if the system gave me a message saying "Please attach your Seagate disk now", but since I always take backups on the 1st of the month, I'm OK with remembering.
5|Use it for my XBONE, perfect, no problems at all.
4|Works well
5|I have been a bit worried about the reliability of Seagate hard drives due to their history. I bought 2 of these for personal use due to their good price. One is hooked up to my Xbox One and the other is used to move files from one PC to another. About 6 months in and both so far have worked flawlessly.
5|I purchased this hard drive for my PS4. The install was super easy and the drive works great.
5|Fast transfers and it's incredibly lightweight to use while traveling.
5|I bought a Seagate 1TB Goflex a couple of years ago and it has served me well. However, it requires a power supply and utilizes a full 3.5" drive. This darlin' needs no extra power and is so small and light that I could toss it in a shirt pocket and forget it's there... with its inevitable discovery in the dryer. Don't worry, it is not going in my shirt pocket. So far I have used the Seagate supplied Dashboard Agent to back up my data and that has generally been unobtrusive to my system use, including playing online games like War Thunder, et al. I can recommend this drive for the technically inclined as well as people who don't know everything about computers. Just, don't let it find its way into the laundry.
4|Nice design, extremely small, slim, and light weight. Perfect portability for 1TB. Fit easily into the small pocket of my messenger bag without adding unnecessary bulk.
5|Seagate nails it again. The color also is good. I orders silver initially but had to change it because Amazon messed up my order, but after receiving it, I'm happy with it. It performs exactly as its advertised. I will try the mobile backup plus function and update soon.
5|Awesome hard drive that is super slim.
5|Excellent
5|Slim and nice. I like it very much. Especially when theprice is that competitive.
4|NOTICE: it does not come formatted for Mac.... You have to go onto a pc and reformat it straight to (forgot the name) Just right click on the drive while in files, select format and select the other option. Their format allows you to paste into the Mac, but not take from it. So just beware before you start copying everything into it. Other than that, it's very small and nice. I haven't used it all that much but it does the job.
1|I don't know why so many people give "seagate" a good review. Maybe it just happened to me. I use seagate hard drive to backup my files and data from desktop computer which have my 3 years stuff. Then the other day the light on this "my favorite hard drive" blinking and a strange sound can be hear. There is nothing shown on the computer. I just lost all of my data in days. I felt so disappointed and would switch to other brand of hard drive.
4|Fast, efficient, quiet and with large storage capabilities: I cannot but being happy with this portable hard drive! Highly recommended.
5|Works as well as any I have bought - and I've bought many! However, like all portable hard drives, it is subject to damage. I had a 2 TB Western Digital desk drive fail without a Seagate Rescue policy, and it cost me $500 to restore the drive. Now I buy a Seagate Rescue policy on every drive. A Canvio finally refused to mount, and I sent it to Seagate Rescue. They totally restored all the files to a new Seagate portable drive - for free. My "policy" now - if I can't afford the insurance on a drive, I can't afford a drive.
5|Love it
5|Excellent product!
5|I purchased this for my PS4 so I can't speak for anything other than that. I have been burned by Seagate HDs more than a few times in the past so I was at first a little reluctant to go forward with this purchase. But after reading the reviews and comparing my options for upgrading my PS4 system storage to something more substantial, I bit the bullet because this drive seemed like good value for my money. I was originally going to get the Seagate 2TB standalone drive but someone posted that the drive in this was the same thing for less money but more steps. I like saving money as much as the next guy so I went with the more steps option. The drive fits perfectly inside the system once you remove it from the original case. It was easy to remove and do the swap. Just be careful when removing the USB adapter plug and realize that your warranty is null and void once you open the case. I just used a small flat edge screwdriver to get it started and pulled it off the rest of the way with my fingers. I actually reversed the process with the original 500GB HD from the PS4 and put that one into the Seagate case, so now I still have a spare 500GB external drive laying around. I just formatted it and it works great. Make sure you backup everything on your PS4 before you do the switch because it will wipe everything when you replace the HD. I have two profiles on my system but only one is PS Plus(auto cloud backup availability). I just assumed that everything would be backed up universally on my system since I had the Plus service, but the non-plus profile stuff was not backed up online. So have a flash drive or something to backup your stuff before you remove the original HD. Steps to get your PS4 up and running can be found on the Playstation web site (google PS4 HD upgrade) but it can be summed up into the following: 1. Backup your data to the cloud or flash drive 2. Swap drives 3. Download new (current) PS4 full system file from Sony website and copy to flash drive per the instructions on their site 4. Plug in the flash drive with the software on it to the PS4, power on the PS4, hold power for 7 secs until system beeps a second time(safe mode) 5. Choose to Initialize PS4 (Reinstall System Software) 6. Choose your USB drive or disc if using a disc and let the system update and activate 7. Download your digital games from the PS Network/Restore your backups from the cloud or flash drive 8. Enjoy your spacious new HD!
5|surprisingly small
4|The device and the prompt delivery fully met my expectations.
5|I bought this to upgrade my Xbox One. It works great no power needed just plug into usb and go.
4|Fastest drive I have ever used. It is quiet and consistent. The sleek profile makes it not only easy to carry around, but looks good as well, as it matches my MacBook Air, for a clean asthethics look. Only thing I didn't like is that it did not come with a carrying case. Not really a deal breaker, however it would have been nice to have, to protect this good looking piece of tech.
1|Completely died after 10 months! Disk not only became unusable, but caused Mac to become almost unusable until problem drive was disconnected. Very, very annoying. You get what you pay for. Cheap equals crummy product. The return process is hideous!!!!! The drive is dead!!!, but I have to very carefully, and expensively wrap it as though it were fine china (and, of course, pay the postage. Never ever deal with Seagate again! Strongly suggest other better products - G-Drive, for one.
5|EXCELLENT...great value, terrific for travel.
5|For a small (in size) drive this little guy is great. I use it for small video editing projects and so far even tho it's not 7200 RPM it doesn't seem to have a problem transferring material.
5|Really easy to use.
5|It was easy to get the hard drive out of its external case and install it into the PS4. This is the best bang for your buck for a hard drive replacement for the PS4.
4|Nice small compact
4|Great price great drive so far...it is fast even in usb 2.0...I woulda gave 5 stars but the micro plug seems easy to damage if you're not careful...big fan of seagate drives this is the first external drive
1|Worked for about a month and then started having a hard time getting my computer to recognize it. Now i can't get it to connect ever. It seemed like it was going to be a good hard drive and now I can't get anything on or off of it. complete waste of money in my opinion.
5|Excelent hard disk portable, is small and fast it !!!
5|Use this on my Xbox One. Makes everything load a lot faster. It's super sleek/good looking as well.
5|I have had Seagate Backups and hard drives in all my computers clear back to my first desktop. My hard drive from 2 desktops ago is still used as a backup drive in that computer. With technology I am now on my second Seagate Portable Backup Drive due to the amount of storage has prolonged the life use of my laptop as I can recall any information from it and keep my laptop hard drive efficient and responding like new.
5|This is the third one I've bought. Excellent product! Works as advertised, and its small size doesn't clutter my desk.
4|It is very compact and slick. I like it a lot.
5|Fast and efficient
5|So far it's great! I backed up the files on my computer and it took about a solid 12 or so hours to backup around 400 gigs of stuff. I'm not sure if that a decent speed but I did it while I was sleeping so no complaints.
5|This is another very good product from Seagate. I've been using Seagate external HDD's for long time and when I needed to have 2TB capacity I went straight for this one. It is very thin and light, USB 3.0 (compatible with USB 2.0) and compact. I have never had problem with Seagate drive and still using ones purchased 4-5 years ago. Dashboard software included (if you want to use it) and this drive can be used on both Windows or Mac computers. Drivers included already on the HDD - if you don't need them or Dashboard software, just delete this. The only thing which is different from previous Seagate Backup Plus model or GoFlex series is that this one doesn't have removable front with USB port. Not big deal but with for example GoFlex you could swapped USB adaptor with FireWire of Thunderbolt. One advice, if you looking for carry case for this one, just go for "Case Logic PHDC-1 Compact Portable Hard Drive Case (Black)". They are available in other color as well. This case is not so big but Seagate Backup Plus Slim hard drives fits perfect and still there is special space for cable in the top cover inside. When you close this case with cable inside there is no extra pressure on you drive and case is easy to close.
5|needed extra storage...works great
5|Worked right out of the box on both my Mac and Windows machine. Good price and as always, great service from Amazon!
5|perfect
2|Very slow transfer rate. Not recommended for back up of large files.
5|Great drive, fast and reliable. Easy to setup and use.
5|arrived shortly. worked with USB2(although capable for USB3)/WIndows 7, No extra work needed. simply plugin. love it. size smaller than an iphone with 2TB!!
1|This HD worked great for the first few months but now the HD wont recognize on my Mac or PCs on reboot. It is really getting annoying because i have to unplug and replug it to get it to recognize. It looks like there is a cheap USB chip in the enclosure seeing that I have tried it on 4 different computers with updated drivers. Now I have to spend extra $ to ship it to hopefully get it replaced. I am not satisfied and would stay away.
1|Nice while it lasted... didn't used it much but still went down in less than six months... :(
5|small size?speed fast ?nice
5|So easy to backup my data. I recommend this Seagate Backup Plus Slim
5|Great easy to use and good price.
5|Great product, works quickly, very light and easy to track around.
5|Arrived when expected. Easy to use. Perfect to back up my Mac.
5|take it apart works great in the ps4
5|Works great
5|Works.. looks great! Tip: and Apple rep once told me to try not to put these on its side and keep it flat because it's a disk that spins inside. I know you may know this but if not it's going to help you in the long run.
5|Used it on my PS4. Has been working perfectly. It's very pretty, too.
2|I really wanted to like this product and it worked well for several months after purchase. I was able to keep all of my music and most of my documents on the drive and not need to worry about space on my limited memory laptop. I generally brought the drive with me everywhere and was looking forward to using it for a good while. However I recently found that it would not stay connected unless the connector cable is bent somewhat backwards. I've worked out a solution that involves six hair ties and a pencil to keep the cable in the position it needs to be to work but am worried that the drive will fail to connect at some point in the future and then I will lose my data. This is very disappointing! I am now looking to purchase a drive with a full usb port as that will hopefully be more durable than the micro-port that I'm having problems with. This probably means I will have a thicker drive but that will be worth it if the durability is increased.
5|nice
5|Use it constantly, no problems yet. Really enjoy having it, and that it is so compact and portable.
5|Excellent product. Easy to use. Was able to recover data from my desktop computer which froze up. High capacity (2TB) and compact size ( about 3 x 5) makes it great. Will use it primarily to archive videosI will be recording for YouTube.
5|Great drive at a great price!! Perfect for what we needed at our office!! Super fast shipping!!!
5|excelent
5|Good Trader. Will trade again. Thanks.
5|Perfect.
5|Excelent product
5|Could not love it more... amazing HDD, fast, stable, reliable...
5|Fast shipping ordered 2 . Works great
4|Like a champ so far.
4|Like it, backup software could be better
5|Tested it by uploading 60GB (couple files) via usb 2.0 and 3.0. Speed 18mb/s and 125mb/s. Drive is cool, about 30 degree Celsius
5|Arrived quickly and is functioning at expected parameters. :)
5|Received product just as advertise. Really slim and very elegant looking. Functions are just as mentioned. Love the design!!
5|Works well. I used this HDD for an upgrade to my PS4 since it was cheaper than the same HDD in a bare drive.
5|Seagate is second to none. Works perfectly, and so dang good looking!
5|Great, good one
4|It is very small and fast. The cons are it didn't want to work after connecting another external drive first. Also, any movement of the USB cable made it likely it would disconnect from the computer. It would be a definite 5 star without the issues.
5|Received in time, perfectly packed and brand new. For now I love it and would give 5 star for its weight and thickness which beats its rival WD my passport 2tb which is almost double its thickness and almost double the weight. Performance wise both are almost same. I am happy with this product. Swift,Sleek and SEXY :)
5|Love the small size and the portable-ness. I recommend getting a hard case to carry it in.
5|Deliver in free shipping is also quick. I ordered it at April 1 morning, and got it at April 3 noon. During operating, it's temperature is very low, very little noise. Maximum write speed of large files 90MB/s. General 55MB/s.
5|For ps4 user's You must download the full software from the official website and that its size by approximately 900 m and will only get errors and can not use the ps4 console
5|Great quality awesome hard drive inside Samsung guts tore apart for my Xbox
4|Good
2|Very stiff cord mfg should supply a more flexible cord
1|Purchased this last February 2014 and since then it has been very inconsistent. Using it on a Mac osx 10.9 and once plugged it, it won't show up or read it. I've tried changing cords and testing it on other computers but it doesn't show up on all of them! I have a western digital and that has lasted me years without problems like this one. It will be hard for me to trust and purchase Seagate products in the future! All of my files are on it and now i'm in a situation that defeats the whole purpose of having an external hard drive because I can't access my files.
5|A nice little external hard drive for backing up your computer. Just plug it in the USB port, and it does the rest.
5|Great product looking forward to getting another one.
5|This is the eleventh drive I have installed. And like the ten before it, this was just as easy to install. The backup software that comes with the drive is very easy to set up. I highly recommend this drive for all your backup needs.
5|This is great. More than I expected.
3|I wish they could just make a plug & play external hard drive. This thing was a little bit of a pain to get going on a mac and PC, but once you get it going it's fine.
5|I save everything I do on the computer to a back-up drive. Actually, two. I work off one and save it and then back it up to another so that I have a back-up to the back-up. When I travel one goes in my home safe and one in my safe deposit box. I was using a different brand and it was not working smoothly with my new iMac 27" screen. I got so frustrated that I ordered these instead. They work perfectly, right out of the box! They are small and actually good looking. I bought 2TB as I have thousands of photos and songs that I also save and these have more then enough room to accommodate everything. I have had absolutely no problems and will probably only use Seagate in the future.
5|Very small, too fast and very nice looking as well. Great capacity for the money.
5|It works great and is easy to set up.
5|nice and compact
4|Very good
5|I love this drive. I've never had any problems with it. It does it's job, and looks good too. It is slimmer than some other drives I've owned, so that's also a plus. Overall I love it. I've had it for a year with no problems!
4|Pros: Size Blue colour is gorgeous ease of use Cons: the cable. I am more than a little cheezed off that seagate used such a short, proprietary cable with this. If you lose this cable there is no borrowing another USB cable to make it work.
2|Did not work with my macbook pro despite all trouble shooting efforts both from apple and seagate. Drive was never recognized even to be able to try reformatting.
1|Worked perfectly for 4 months then had a corrupt folder with every picture ever taken of my child. Had to pay $99 for recovery software to get them back. Highly irritated it costs more to get my data back than it did to purchase the external hard drive. I have a WD hard drive that I have used for 4 years with never a problem. Will be going back to that brand.
2|I purchased this hard drive to back up my video files needed for my class, but it didn't work. When I attempted to transfer files, it would work fine for about 30 seconds, then all of a sudden the transfer bar disappeared from my screen and the file would remain grey in the folder (indicating it hadn't fully transferred). I tried several times, rebooted my laptop, even tried to erase the disk and reformat it like the support website said, but nothing worked. My father has a Seagate for his Windows and he loves it, so I know the brand isn't all bad. I'm pretty sure I received a defective drive, but I don't know if I'll be repurchasing this drive.
5|Excellent so far. Beautiful, lightweight and good performing. I can carry it in my pocket just like my mobile. I hope it works like this for a long time.
3|:)
5|Works great!
1|Installation for Mac is terrible. its like a loop of installation with no clear direction. I followed the limited installation instructions and after 2 hours i still cant drag and drop a single file. when you go to the dashboard there is no option to "add file" its all about update to cloud, add social, back up to cloud etc.....i just wanted to copy a file to a back up drive, do they have to make it so confusing and difficult. Seagate website sucks, good luck, im returning this piece of non supported crap.
5|Great!
4|very small and portable; it is real fast too.
5|Amazing storage and product!
5|Im have been using this for almost one month and i havent had any problems about this.Quality is good.It is not heavy and big.Data transfer speed is incredible!I saw over than 100 mb transfering speed and this is awesome.I recommend you buy this if u want to buy good quality and also not too expensive hard disk.
4|took a while to connect to my Mac Mini - I had to call the seagate C/S Rep who helped me download a new driver After that everything is fine. I loaded many many photos on to the Back-up drive and have used less than a Gig. Wonderful
5|I have internal hard drives from Seagate. This is my first Seagate external drive. It is sleek. Performance on USB 3.0 is good so far. Very good one for the deal I got.
4|Its fine for under $80, not slow; no problems after months of using it every week.
4|As expected. I had thought that the materials either supplied or on-line would clearly erview what the device can do - and how to do it. But, I was wrong.
5|woow its very fast Max speed shows 256 mb !! & light & comfortable
5|Works as advertised.
5|This is great to upgrade your ps4. No issues installing hardware or software. Ps4 works like new with 2tb of space. I'm very satisfied.
5|Lots of room for personal items. Easy to use.
1|I was so happy with this devise... But I dropped once and stopped working completely. Might I add is was the day I have to turn in a final paper? I lost all my college work and my job's documents. For the amount of money a payed I was expecting something more resistant. The fall was not as big since it fell from my lap while seating on a child chair.
5|works great
5|:)
5|Love my new HD. It's small, has huge memory. RPM is only 5400 but it doesn't bother me too much. couldn't sync with mobile phone device didn't recognize my phone anyhow I tried
4|Seems to work OK, just slow. This is my first external drive, my first usb 3.0 product. I have it hooked up correctly to a usb 3.0 port on my mobo (upgraded bios/drivers last month). I am using the cable included with the drive. I was expecting it to be faster. Maybe it depends on what you are transferring? Review I read said it would write at around 120 mbps. I transferred a folder containing a few hundred files (pictures and a lot of videos), maybe 100 GB. Transfer speed was just north of 30 mbps. Also, included cable is too short. Many products ship with way too long cables but at 18" I barely have room to set this drive somewhere. I'll have to buy an extension cable next time I order something just to make it more usable. <update: I upgraded my review from 3 to 4 stars. I transferred some other files to the drive and it was much faster.>
5|I love it, love it, love it. Bought it to backup my desktop. Works perfectly. So small. Would get it again.
5|As expected, stores data, travels well. I purchased a cheap case to keep the drive and cord together. Love the color! Overall very satisfied with the value for the cost.
5|Good! Slim and easy to use. When I got the parcle, i open the box up and put the little disk to my macbook air. it automatically run and showed what it can do like registering, backing up or file recovering. sure i can choose whether i will install the functions or not. the size is smaller than paperback(similar to the size of 2 namecards) and as thin as my macbook air.
4|Good
1|I've had this Hdd for four months now. Was looking for a compact and fast hard drive which I got. I accidentally dropped it from my working desk and the damn thing just died. How about losing all your back up. Insult to injury they have added a clause on their warranty page that there are no replacements if you've dropped it. Bottomline. Do not get this if you want something hardy. Frustrated!!
5|Everybody in the office has one, they are great.
5|Works great!
5|Compact (pocket-sized) with ample storage. As a person that has (combined) thousands of digital files, movies, and pictures, there is more than enough storage. Even if you aren't in the creative field requiring lots of digital storage, this unit will suit your needs. It's reasonable price makes buying 2 of these within reach. I gauge value, usefulness and price on percentage basis and I am a 100% satisfied using the above parameters. If I liked it, you'll ? it.
5|Have several of these. Use them for Winders and Mac. And a combination of both. A snap to configure.
5|Absolutely the best......thanks!
4|Meets expectations.
1|It worked for a short period of time.... Then nothing! It will make a great door stop
4|I had to get Customer Service to help me format it for my Mac ?
5|It works well for my Mac. It is slim and loos good. It matches my expectataion.
5|Works slick on my mac, and changing computer is easy. Took a minute to figure out the installation, but once I got that down it hasn't failed me. Backed up my whole mac with thousands of pictures and under 10% full. D Not sure why i didn't get one sooner
4|It worked for me on my mac by just formatting. I liked it.
2|This hard drive was great...until it failed. I purchased it for a deployment and within 4 months, it had failed. It is supposed to go back and forth between PC and Mac....I wouldn't recommend it unless you have hours to sit and fix it. I almost lost all of my data multiple times, thankfully I'm fairly efficient at restoring most of it now. A fellow coworker has the same drive, different color, and his did the same thing. I'm still debating whether to send it back to seagate when I get home, or just purchase another more reliable brand. Either way, what I have on it is fine, but the failed part has taken up so much space, it's not even close to 2Tb!
5|Excellent little backup unit that I am using on my macbook. Set it up as a Time Machine unit which worked right the first time it was installed and gives me peace of mind that the extremely sensitive data on my laptop will be saved in case of a hard drive crash.
2|I was a little surprised as to how confusing the software was.
5|LOVE this thing. Great solution for storing files from my iPad, iPhone, Sony laptop, Macbook Pro, and Samsung Galaxy Tab. It delivers on its claim that it can be used between a Mac and a PC. I did have to install something on my macbook pro upon initial setup that allowed for it to be used between Mac and PC, but that took just a few seconds to do. Perfect storage solution, regardless of what operating system you have!
5|This device has been easy to use and reliable. The device switches easily from my Mac (OS X Yosemite) and my PC (Windows XP).
5|like that this works with mac and pc which was a must for my hubby
5|This little external drive is awesome! I use it for all my photos, audio and video storage. I literally keep iMovie, iPhoto, and Itunes on this drive and run then from this external drive. It's fast and I don't have to worry about using up space on my mac. And the price... hello ya cant beat it!!!
5|Good and reliable drives.
5|fast deliver, function as expected.
5|Perfect.
5|This hard drive arrived exactly as described & I was able to save data to it on a Windows 7 server without any modification. Looks like it will store a LOT of data & is backward-compatible with USB 2.0.
5|A1 hard drive, easy to use, plenty of room. Only thing is it gets hot when you put large amounts of info on it at once so make sure you ventilated it and maybe put a fan on it.
5|Once a week I use Windows backup and save my files to this drive. I then disconnect it so I reduce the probability of anyone hacking the backup.
5|exactly what i needed and i will definitely buy from this seller
5|Very nice product!!!!
5|super! does what is needed.
4|Works great
3|Used it backup all of our data from a laptop and from a network drive at school. Works fine - has the standard USB cable, but has the newer USB 3.0 connector on the HD drive side.
5|SMALL AND PERFECT!
5|Excellent
5|Absolutely excellent. Being only 9.5 mm thick fits into any laptop (of course after you take it out of the case)
5|good
5|Perfect size and speed up to 60MB/s(wt).
5|So my PS4 was running low on space and at the at the moment and this is the only hard drive that fits in it. I followed the instructions on Playstation website and it worked great!
5|easy to use. fast
4|I've only had it hooked up for a couple of days, so I can't say yea or nay yet.
5|Works very well with various software. I haven't had any problems to date. I would recommend this drive to others as I already have done so. Great for pics and video storage on the go as well as for those files you just can't be without.
4|nice
5|This so quick!
5|Works great in my PS4
5|This one is great
5|All Good.
5|Excellent!!!
5|I love it!!!! Way more space than a bunch of flash drives, it's small, and I love that about it also. It was a good price for it also. Working well for me. I love that it'll work with a Mac also, my husband has one.
5|Just what I needed.
5|Seagate is the best !
5|Great deal !!!!
5|I love this product and his beautiful color! Very good for my needs!
5|Solid construction, looks great. It's a Seagate, you can't go wrong.
5|So far so good! I ordered prior to a vacation to backup photos/videos and it works like a charm. Fit easily into a zipper pocket of a carry-on bag; and made it back in one piece!
5|Very quick, beautiful red color, I'm happy
1|After installing it froze. Not sure if I can get it to unfeeze
5|Good Product arrived on time
5|Bought This For A Dear Friend
5|So awesome. I did a lot of research before deciding what backup hard to buy. This one won because of the great price, getting to chose your own color (i'm a sucker for that kind of stuff) and the FREE backup drive app. A lot of the other hard drives give you a free trail of their app that you can purchase later or you have to buy the more expensive version to get the app. This is a DEAL. One of the smarter/better purchases I have made in a while. Works flawlessly going between my PC desktop and mac laptop - which i was nervous about. Also it is so tiny, it is mind blowing how powerful this thing is. I would definitely recommend this product to anyone looking for a backup hard drive.
5|Works great-fast and quiet.
5|the best on the market right now. Good price, durable, stylish. pros very small, can be stored in small places, doesnt get too hot. noiseless. difficult to scratch, can be used on macs and pc at same time if formatted as ex-fat. the price is better than mypassport which is bulkier, heavier and somewhat noisy sometimes. durable. dropped once, still intact. same happened to other external HD and it stopped working. cons cable is too small. could come with a case...
5|I love this item it's just what I needed.
5|Nice compact little backup drive.
5|Works as expected.
4|Seems like a great product. Only quibble is that the lead to connect it to the computer has a standard USB one end, but the other end is something I've never seen before. I expected a mini-USB, but this isn't it. This means carrying around yet another cable, instead of being able to use a standard USB to mini-USB lead which has many other uses. OK the cable is small, but it adds unnecessary clutter to my bag that I just don't need. I don't understand why Seagate didn't just standardise on a mini-USB.
2|This is the first lemon I've ever purchased from Seagate; I have several of their FreeAgent drives and they have performed perfectly out of the box. This drive might have a problem with Windows 8 . . . I don't know what was going on, but my PC would recognize the drive for a few seconds, then it would disappear. After a lot of maneuvers to make it work, I gave up and returned the drive.
3|Have had no other issues other than the dashboard download didn't work for my computer. I think my computer is lacking an update or something. Over all very happy with the product. And product support was great. Thanks.
5|Used it to swap out my ps4 HDD easy as pie.
5|compatible for the $. Good value
5|Excelent hard drive and nice price
5|I am a 77 year old woman who appreciates the ease in using electronics. Well, I sure found it with this little Seagate external drive. It is so easy to use as a back up, but the most definite emergency I used it for was when my laptop failed and all data had to be taken off the hard drive, but more specific, with a Dummies book and the Seagate drive the transfer of files and data was so much easier than I expected. This little drive is well worth the money and so easy to use. I am not an electronics wiz, but felt like one when my computer is running perfectly.
1|I expected a new product, but it was actually used because the partition on the drive had been deleted. This required several emails with Seagate to resolve. Now it is fine but it took way too much time to get it working.
5|Good for back up
5|Just what I wanted but in a black color. It is the same as the Mac version because all you need to do is format it on the Mac's disk utility. The slim version is a hard plastic cover to a metal hard drive with a built in fan/driver.
5|Had it ~2 years and has held up so far. No complaints here.
5|So far seems very reliable. Light weight and easily stored away anywhere.
5|Slim is in. And Seagate really went slim on this one. 2TB is a lot of storage....so take those files with you. Take those movies with you. Back up those photos. A lot of room in a little space. It used to be your 2TB back up was a monster that sat by your desktop model. Now its the size of your iPhone and not any heavier. I'm a Mac user, so I love the fact that this was made for a Mac. Plug 'n Play -- just makes life soooo simple. No reformatting, just plug in the USB and it was recognized immediately. Seagate has a reputation for quality, and once again, they came through. And, when Amazon runs a sale, you get an even better deal (although their price is highly competitive to start with -- especially for Prime members who then save on shipping). This unit seems quieter than others I've had and it doesn't seem to get hot like some others I've owned. And, if I haven't said it before -- for 2TB the price is right! The storage is great. While color is not important to me, you do have a choice, so for some, that's another added benefit. Overall, I highly recommend this.
5|Good
5|Bought this to use at home to keep my school files. I initially had a yoga pro 2 form Lenovo which started crashing on me at barely two weeks of age. I then switched to a MacBook, all my word files and music and pictures files that I had saved on my from my Windows 8 system just copy and pasted straight onto my Apple Product no problem. Compatibility is most definitely not an issue. As for build quality, it's awesome, slim and sleek, the aluminium body feels sturdy and tough. I would avoid dropping it of course but I wouldn't be very worried if I did by accident. It's also very portable; I carry it with me in my school bag when I go to school.
4|awsome product, only remark short connection cable
5|Exactly what I expected.
5|really small
1|If there was only a way to give this ZERO stars I would. Seagate should be paying you, literally, to buy this product. Mine failed in just over a month. In the back and forth with - and I use this term loosely - "support" they wrote, and I quote "Seagate always suggest [sic] maintaining a copy of your data in at least two locations". One, that advice is stated nowhere, not on their website, not on the product insert. And, two, the goal for this drive was for this to be one of those locations. While they did replace the unit, they would not replace the data. Well, not entirely true. For a mere - and in the words of David Barry "I am not making this up" - they would evaluate the unit, not recover the data for a mere 5 C-notes. Yup, 500 bucks as a starting point - on a $65 product. So their business model should be: sell the poison for free (or PAY you) and charge whatever they want for the antidote. I have zero faith in this product and will use if for transitory data only if at all. I've debated selling it in hope of finding "the greater fool". But somehow my conscience won't let me do that.
5|It works as intended. FYI if you intend to use it across different platforms (MAC vs PC) the Free Mibil Backup App doesn't do it automatically. You just copy from one onto the other as you would with any other HD. In my experience if you're using it on a MAC just use time machine.
5|perfect with my ps4. Although it's 5400 rpm, my point is it's capacity
5|Best portable drive on the market.
5|Love this drive,A great deal for price and size of drive and usb 3,,,,,,yay
5|Not much needed to be said great and awesome
5|Fantastic product!
5|So glad seagate came out with a 4TB drive. I'm a freelance graphic designer/photographer. I save a lot of picture and Adobe Software files on my drive. So far it has made my life easier from moving all my files from a 2TB Seagate portable drive to the 4TB. Transfer speeds were good (in my opinion). I'm a mac user, so I reformatted it to MAC OS Journaled and my macs read/write has been great. So far, so good!
5|This is a great external storage disk. I would recommend it to anyone.
5|PS4 upgrade ready. Excellent product.
4|Works great so far! I used it to back up my MacBook Pro before a software update. The only problem was the phone backup keeps failing. Gonna keep trying though. I saw the same one at Costco for the about the same price after I bought this one. And it came with a case :(.
5|Worked as advertised!
5|i bought this to supplement my Xbox one hard drive. Quick and easy setup. Just plug it in to your Xbox and you're good to go. I have about 18% used with around 20 or so games installed.
5|No hassles! Just connect to a USB port on your computer and Windows 8.1 will recognize it instantly!
4|Second one I have, both are great.
5|I've had this 4tb guy for over a year now and on top of being fast, it is reliable!! Seagate it a home-run here
5|Fast, reliable and still going strong 4 months later. Great for the price ! And extremely portable.
5|Best economic hard drive for ps4
5|I used this hard drive almost daily to backup my photos and videos that I took while travelling. The compact size and no need for AC power makes it perfect for throwing into my camera bag. It is sturdy and made from quality materials. The transfer speed is as fast as any other USB 3.0 HDD I own - maybe slightly faster. The only complaint I have is it did not come with any sort of protective sleeve. Seagate has made a great product at a decent price. I would recommend it.
5|First time using a external hard drive. But this one seems to work great for me. There isn't any problems and it came as quick as it could.
5|I purchased this item to combine all the data from my other external hard drives that I carry around in my brief case and boy is it small!! I had two of the popular Seagate FreeAgent Go's and this is about 1 inch shorter in length and 0.25" smaller in width! The thickness is the same as the FreeAgent Go. The USB 3.0 is fast and I combined my other three drives to this one so I didn't have to carry around as much stuff - I was using a 1TB drive for TimeMachine (backup software) on my Mac, a 640 GB media drive, and another 500 GB media drive and this worked out nicely. One trick I learned, if you are using this for TimeMachine and want to be able to share data with a PC be sure to partition the drive into ExFat (readable by Mac & PC) and Mac OS Journaled (required format for TimeMachine). I have never had a failure with the Seagate drives and I will update my review if I have any problems with this drive.
5|So far so good with good backups.
5|Awesome External hardrive great for movies and files
5|Great little HD. USB 3.0 is lightning-fast and the brushed aluminum look is very nice. Price per GB is great too (purchased at $60).
5|It worked as I expected it to. Nice and easy to use.
5|This is a small, thin, quiet 1Tb external hard drive ... perfect for backing up your home laptop. Using Seagate's Dashboard backup program is easy, and you can setup your own timetable for when backups are made and select the folders/files you want. By default, it makes a complete backup the first time and incremental backups (just the changed files) thereafter. The restore feature allows you to select a previous backup date and the folders/files you wish to restore. If you use it (as I do) to backup multiple laptops, the unique name you gave each PC at setup keeps the backups separate. It attaches to your PC with a full-size USB connector. The drive is powered through the USB connection, so it requires no external power source.
5|I do like this hard drive for a number of reasons, its small and fits into my camera bag very easily. Two year warranty not bad at all. I just received it a few days ago and I haven't had any problems with it. Just plug and play. Ofcourse you can install the Seagate dashboard if you please! Good for the money!
5|Very good!!
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2 TB External Hard Drive is awesome! It comes with some software for registration and also some for backing up files. I registered the product, then deleted the rest of the software as I just use drag and drop in Windows Explorer to back up my drive. It is not that the software is good or bad, but I don't use it for backing up. I have 4 Seagate USB drives and have never had a problem with any of them. I use the drive for backups only, and once the files are copied, I shut the drive down and unplug the USB connector. I believe the drive will shut down by itself if left plugged in, but I don't take any chances with my data. Once I had two hard drives on my computer. I had everything backed up on both hard drives and felt safe. One day the power supply on my computer crashed and burned (literally) and to my surprise I lost BOTH hard drives! I lost over 3000 photos and learned a big time lesson from that. Now I keep at least 4 backups and they are not plugged into my computer either. You may say it is overkill, but not to me. Now my photos are safely backed up and all is well unless my house burns down. When I plug the USB connector into the computer from the drives, they power up and show in Windows Explorer. I actually do not use Windows Explorer. I use PowerDesk 9 for backups and it works great. It has a mode called Sync, and I point it to the drive with all of my photos (C: drive) and to the same folder with my photos on the Seagate Drive, and click on Sync. It synchronizes both folders and that is all I have to do to backup all my new pictures. It works for me and may not work for you.
1|It just worked for 5 days. I am returning it to Seagate claiming my guarantee. I'm quite disappointed with this product
5|I bought this specifically for the Spinpoint M9T drive inside this little guy. It is currently the largest capacity drive that will fit inside the PS4, and this is cheaper than the drive alone. I followed a guide online and the process took no time at all, but be warned THIS WILL VOID YOUR WARRANTY! All you have to do is gently pry the case apart, take the drive out, put your old PS4 drive in this enclosure, and you now have a 2TB PS4 and a 500GB external hard drive!
5|Works fine with my xbox
4|Only used for a short time, but no problems at all, does what is says perfectly.
5|Slim and works good
5|Great product!
4|Product is as stated.
5|Its been 3 months and still working well. Small and portable, nice to have it powered by usb instead of those clunky AC adaptors.
5|Great product it shipped and came in on time. The 2 TBs are enough for my PS4, anyone looking to upgrade theirs should get one.
3|The product works great, but I only gave it 3 stars because the cable is too short and does not have a standard connector on the end that plugs into the drive, so I can't easily replace it with a longer cable. I HATE HATE HATE manufacturers who use proprietary connectors on devices that can easily use standard connectors (usb drives, cameras, digital audio players, etc.). I have not used the backup software that comes with the drive, as I already have automatic backups in place. I like the slim size of the drive, but due to the non-standard cable, I would not purchase another one.
5|Backed up all my files and still have plenty of space.
5|No problems with this product
5|Great addition to your backup devices.
1|The product never worked. I tried contacting the company for support, but they work short hours, are off on major and minor holidays. When I called during their work week, I was put on hold for over twenty minutes.
5|I used this to upgrade my PS4 hard drive. I've never taken any sort of electronic apart that wasn't really meant to be, but based on the others that had tried successfully to pry this from its shell I decided to give it a go. It took me a little longer than I thought it would, about a half hour to get it to fit inside the PS4. After removing it from it's case I was most worried about removing the stripping on the end of it. I eventually got it done and my PS4 is running great. Nothing like 4X the space! Plus the shell makes a decent case for my old hard drive (though I did scratch it up with the screwdriver).
5|good
5|Very durable and has worked completely as expected. Seagate quality.
4|Light, pretty, simple product. Good working.
4|My computer crashed after leaving this connected for about 2 weeks. The "blue screen" mentioned newly installed hardware could be the problem. I can't say for sure that was the problem, but computer worked again after disconnecting this hard drive and doing a Windows Update. Running on an older Vista OS with 2.0 USB. Fast to save; sl-o-o-w to retrieve. I did not read instructions, and just used it like an internal hard drive.
4|OK SOFTWARE IS POOR
5|I've been very impressed with this so far (only owned about 3-4 months). Extremely quiet, very small, great capacity. Does the job and was very reasonably priced when I bought.
5|I own three of these (2TB). So far I haven't had any problems with them at all. They look and perform great!
5|Works well
5|Works perfect and fast on Mac and pc after installing the drivers and out of the box. Haven't bothered installing the software. All I care is the storage. Slim and good look, but most importantly does what it says. That's five stars to me.
5|very good product
4|I like it
5|Installation was easiest - drive works fine - so far
5|Small fast solid. What more could you ask for? I am using them for archival storage and put them in my fire safe. They don't take up hardly any room at all.
5|An excellent low profile hard drive by one of the most trusted names in the hard drive business, Seagate. I have three and can easily tell them apart by their colors, one red, one silver and one blue.
5|love it!
5|Great product
2|Difficult to use
5|Purchased this a while back. Currently it has backup copies of all my media, as well as backup images of my systems. Have had no issues so far. USB3.0 and 2tb, cant beat that combo!
5|Amazing! It was smaller than I expected. I love it.
5|Works great. Using it for a home backup system so I leave it at the office every other week and change it out with another external drive in between.
5|very good
5|Pretty good
5|Works great with PC. The Mac installation takes longer and it seems if you want to use it one various Mac computers, you will need to install the special launch file on each of those computers, or else you will be able to copy FROM the drive to the Mac, but will not be able to copy FROM the Mac to the dirve. With PCs that isn't an issue. But, having said that, I have seen many external harddrives promising to enable editors to switch from PC to Mav and vise versa, but that isn't true in most cases. Seagate is one of the only drives i;ve seen that comes with a PC AND Mac installation file on it to enable this switch. Most do not have these files and people spend a lot of time searcing online how to enable, and even then, most brands either don't recognize these drives on Mac, or, recognize the first computer you used - say Mac, then refuses to recognize the other (PC in this example). So yes, as an editor I HIGHLY recommend it!
5|good
1|This is frustrating. I bought this less than a month ago, but it constantly fails to stay connected with my laptop. I have been using my laptop for about a year, and had no problem, so it should be this external hard drive that has a problem. This may be just a few unlucky cases, but there are several report related with this issue.... NOT RECOMMENDED.
5|Was a gift for a family member. They loved it
3|The installation instructions for use with a MAC are incorrect. You have to call the company. Now that it's installed, it's fine.
4|Sturdy external hard drive with good space for music and pictures.
5|Tried to buy one of the cloud drives and wasted way too much time trying to set it up and make it work with my Mac. Ended up returning that and buying this, so glad I did! It is just as cute, portable, and light as it looks in the photos. It is almost totally silent too. Data transfer is extremely fast. I was able to partition the drive so half is used for Apple time machine and the other half is holding my files. The drive is so small I can easily throw it in my laptop bag and travel with it. So glad I found this product!
5|well made works good, nice size for traveling
5|OK
5|If your looking for a hard drive to put into your ps4 this is a great option.
5|Very thin and I use it for a backup. Much smaller than the other portable drives used in the past. Bought two, so now I can backup to one disk on Friday night and the other one Saturday night.
5|No need to talk about this. I am very happy and very pleased always with Seagate.
5|Great backup device at a great price.
5|Good product
5|Tiny and reliable.
5|Perfect solution to my space issue on my Mac. Great customer service too.
5|Its a great product and I recommend it.
5|This is a great external hard drive for people who own a PC and a Mac, or either one. Having the option is what mattered most to me when searching for an external hard drive, considering my wife is Mac user and I opt for a PC. I purchased this unit in preparation for a long duration overseas assignment in austere conditions, I.e. Sandy, dusty, humid, basically lots of exposure to outdoor extreme elements. I was surprised that it performed so well under the conditions I was exposed to. The price was about $15 cheaper on amazon in comparison to best buy, not including tax. I will purchase from seagate again if I need another but I will go with the 2.0 terabyte option next time for the added space. I also purchased a pelican case to store mine in, which protected it from moisture and abrasive contact of sand and getting plopped down onto rocks and dirt muliple times a day. Overall, 5 stars all day for this gem of a hard drive.
5|Great item
4|Small, light, fast. I hope it lasts, some reviews say Seagate products don't last. I suggest you copy the docs from the disk before backing up with Time Machine, it wants to fully erase the disk. After it's formatted, recopy the docs back onto the disk. Seagate doesn't tell you that.
4|Bought as a gift. Works good.
5|Excellent product! I use it to replace my PS4 HDD. Its working perfect.
5|good drive. slim and speed is cool!
1|I've used this for approximately 3 months and it no longer works.
5|Actually bought this to use the internal HDD for an upgrade to my PS4. It's still a great hard drive regardless how you use it
4|Add additional storage for WDTV! Excellent, mobile, USB powered data storage and backup solution!
4|Arrived on time, fit the description, met the need. I do like the slim, lightweight design and high capacity. I prefer all the items I order to have already earned 4-5 stars in others' reviews! Good quality, as described.
1|I bought this drive less than a year ago, and it has already failed. It was well taken care of but now has stopped functioning completely and requires professional data recovery services. Beyond frustrating.
5|good!
1|Keeps messing up, shut off, restructure your music lose your music. So mad I bought this
5|perfect! fast shipping! thanks!
5|Nice backup unit.
5|It works out really well for downloading all my embroidery patterns on, thus freeing up my memory for other things.
5|I love it. It's very small and somewhat thin. For a 2 TB to be this small. I'm very impressed. Love it.
1|A piece of crap. Literally just received in the mail less than an hour ago, installed the dashboard and immediately got word that the drive is full. It won't show me the phantom files on the device. Been searching online for a solution but to no avail. I want my money and time back. Again, piece of crap.
5|This is fantastic!!! Put my whole digital life on here with room to spare
3|the only reason I gave 3 stars is because this think don't work with Mac computers right off the box. If you have a Mac and don't have the technical skills you may end up spending more than a few minutes to set up this drive.
1|There are two big issues with this hard drive. I have purchased two of these and and since they both exhibited the exact same behaviors, I think the problem is not just picking the bad cherry. 1. If I put my desk computer to a sleep and then wake it up with this HD attached, it shows blue screen error. No other HD had this issue. I can connect this HD to my computer only after waking it up first. At first I thought something was wrong with my Windows 7 and even formatted my computer HD to clean install. After countless hours of futile efforts I realized the culprit was none other than this harmless looking HD attached to my computer. After I removed it, problems disappeared. 2. If you use not-so-powerful computers with this HD, the video playback will stop very frequently. No other HD had this issue. It plays AVCHD files terrribly. I had to move the entire library backup of my AVCHD from this HD to WD Passport, after seeing that the video playback makes frequent stops. All in all, I would not recommend this one to anyone, although it looks sleek and pretty. I would order a WD My passport or a Toshiba any day, even though they are thick and ugly.
5|My son said it worked easily with his apple laptop
5|I've been a computer tech off and on for 33 years, and initially when I bought this drive I was taken aback by how poorly functioning it was. The fact that I purchased it brand new, use it on a modern system, and with today's drive technology available to Seagate, I just assumed it would be the best of the best for a portable "pocket" drive. Right? Well, it is. It's blazingly fast, remarkable considering it's a USB powered slower RPM pocket drive, with flawless transfer rates and error free performance. Awesome! More than I hoped for! So what was the issue? Well, initially I needed the drive to work easily between my Mac and PC, software free, so I formatted it according to the old FAT 32 system for DOS, which both platforms read. Worked perfectly fine on the Mac, but with my PC it performed like a one-legged dog back from an all-nighter at the bar after 2 hours of sleep. Not suspecting the format/driver issue at first, I left a bad review here BUT - Seagate responded promptly and invited me to call in for help. Wow! Tech support answered quickly (I could end my review right there, that in itself is amazing) and the first thing I mentioned was the format, and my new suspicion that maybe that could be the issue. The tech agreed, we reformatted it to NTFS and it's been great every since. Probably the best performing drive I own, utterly silent, smaller than most phones these days, and solidly built. (Nice looking, too). Thankfully I don't need the drive for my Mac any longer, but for Mac or multi-platform users just be aware of this issue. It worked, but the transfer rate was a literal crawl when transferring files on the PC with the FAT-32 formatting. Hope this helps.
5|Great Product quick ship
5|This product is awesome.
5|I love this, I purchased it to store pictures and documents. I have over 1000 images and tons of space left. Excellent for the price.
5|Delivered quickly, does every thing I wanted it do, copied of all my pictures, videos and files.
4|Works beautifully with my Macbook Pro. Easy to use!
5|Read many reviews about which external I should go to and it seems I always go back to Seagate... my last Seagate I purchased roughly 10 years ago and still use gave me the biggest reason to stick with the brand.... I've been using this new one for almost 3 months now and couldn't be happier.... this has the USB 3.0 which is super fast for file transfer... For Quality, Size and ease of use, stick with Seagate.....
5|Sleek and portable.
1|Failed after 9 months.
4|Works great, but found out I have to buy a backup for my backup!
5|Works great!
4|At first, I was regretting buying this product. It seemed more fragile than I thought it would be, and when I tried to install the software, it wouldn't work. It took me five or six times to install the "Seagate Dashboard" that comes with the device. Once it finally installed, I couldn't drag files from my current flashdrive to the new external. Long story short, I emailed customer service on a Friday at 6PM, and they got back to me in less than 10 minutes. All I had to do was reformat the device to my Mac. Now it works great! The customer service was unbeatable, with fast response time, good answers, and clear instructions.
4|Item as described.
1|Broke within 3 months of using. :(
5|Very easy to use. I just connect it to my computer and then start create the back up.
4|Just what I needed
5|Nice size. Great value
1|Simply did not work. Returned it.
5|Excellent !!
5|As expected
5|Using it as a backup medium for my C: drive. Works as advertised.
5|I love it. Easy to use and very light to carry.
5|awesome slim external hdd compatible with xbox one
5|The body is beautiful, nice feeling (of all of my external drives). Does not have or need the sata adapter. Cable is usb a-b (I think) and the speed is excellent. Can become warm (after transferring 500) but never too much.
5|These are wonder little devices. So easy to use and tiny!
5|Superb
1|I know what you're thinking, you're already skeptical of this one-star review. Should I buy this hard drive? Not if you own a Mac. I was super excited to buy this unreliable turd. I am regretting it now. If the hard drive is unplugged while the computer is on, it will fail. Can you repair it? Not on a Mac. You can on a PC but it takes FOREVER... no work this morning! My clients will understand... /s Ok, well, stop being a dumba** and stop unplugging it without turning off or ejecting. Ok! I did! Had a minor freeze up on the computer, held the power button and it NEEDED TO BE REPAIRED. F***. Well, to it's credit, it repaired on Mac... but I will be dealing with this turd, with regret, until I get even more upset and smash it on the concrete. Well, you say, swap it with another one, must be a fluke! I did that... paid the shipping too. Are all hard drives such POS at this capacity?
1|The first Seagate Backup Plus I got stopped working within a couple of weeks. I had already transferred ALL my music, pictures, videos, important files to it ... and it DIED! Very upsetting. I immediately ordered a back up and had asked the vendor if i can get an extension on returning the first one, since I wanted to see if I can try to recover it. No one ever got back to me so of course I got charged for both HDs! I tried emailing, calling customer service, got nada information back. I'm very displeased with the customer service and more importantly, losing all my precious data and memories!!!
5|I love it
3|I am not a computer genius by any means... but I am the tech person when the true it person isn't around. With that being said this does not let me choose what I want to store and leave out the rest. I wanted something more like a thumb drive. It give me an option to back up Facebook and my phone... not what I needed
5|This product was delivered to my house and works perfectly, love it!!!
4|Easy to install, seems to download fine. I was really surprised by how small it was. Wish the cable that came with it was a bit longer. That's why I gave it four stars.
4|good work
5|I LOVE THIS! Its hard to believe how much you cna get on this drive. I work in graphic arts and can back up all my clients files for easy access on this drive
5|Great, fast little HD
2|The USB 3.0 cable shipped with the drive was faulty. My MacBook Pro would as a result only intermittently detect the drive. After replacing the USB cable, it worked fine. Support on the Seagate website is terrible.
5|It is easy to set up and use.
5|It did the job and still is. Can't ask for more than that.
5|This drive is great! Using the included USB 3.0 cable you get great transfer speeds in a size smaller than many smartphones. I have since purchased a number of these drives for people I provide IT support to.
1|transfer rate is slow.
1|Seagate is notorious for shoddy hard drives. After having 3 fail on me and reading countless reports of the same, I have given up on them. If you care about your data at all, pay a little more for something else.
5|I have purchased probably 30 or so of these. Every single one has worked perfectly. I was really surprised at how fast they are. Sequential file transfers at 120 MB/s. No joke! I was expecting maybe 50-60. Huge storage for the price. No extra power, just USB. Works on USB 2.0 as well.
5|I use it to backup data for my photography business, and its fastness and size lets me take work remotely in days when claustrophobia sets in and my apartment becomes a requiem of my doubts and horrors. It's a sturdy beast too.
5|Awesome for personal use backups. My Surface Pro 3 laptop/tablet was ruined and a backup saved everything I needed. I backup at least 3 times a week (Documents, Music, Pictures, Video). I first created a "Backups" folder on the drive and inside I create folders with a date name, "2014 11-02" and so on. I then copy the Documents, Music, Pictures, and Video folders to the new date name folder. DONE Keep at least the last 5-10 date folders and a few older ones for "archival" purposes to suit your needs. Do all of this REGULARLY and you will not regret it. 2 TB is fine for my personal use. I am thinking of buying another Hard Drive as a replacement/ADDITION in a year or two. Let me know what you think with a comment.
3|I bought this hard drive for my father to use as a storage for photos and documents. On his Mac mini running OS X Yosemite the disk exhibited failures when the computer woke up after sleep - the disk was disconnected and the operating system complained that it was not ejected properly. This seems to be fixed by the latest hard drive firmware upgrade ('Seagate Slim for Mac Firmware Update' on http://www.seagate.com/gb/en/support/downloads/), hence 2 stars down.
5|Great
5|Daughter uses it to back up her video film projects. For the last 3 months its worked flawlessly. It accompanies her on film shoots around Boulder so it works in the cold.
3|It gave out on me after 3 months of use. It skipped n lost so much data
5|I used this to replace my PS4 hard drive. The casing came apart easily and without damage, so I was able to easily swap my old hard drive back into the case for a portable 500 gb hard drive. The 2TB in the PS4 took perfectly, and I was done start-to-finish in under 20 minutes.
5|Great product at a great price. Easy to use. No brainer.
2|After about 3 months using this as my back up for Mac Time Machine, I started constantly getting a message that it was not ejected properly. Then it would fail to show up in Finder. It seems the cable it came with is the problem, but I've contacted Seagate for assistance. Also, it no longer will recognize the password to unlock it (I'm not really sure the purpose of the lock/unlock, but it's disturbing.). This had better reviews than any competitive product, so I don't know what to replace it with and am hoping this one is just a lemon. Post Script: Seagate said that you could not use a longer cable on the device, and that they did not sell the cable separately. But as a one time courtesy, they'd send me another. If I can find an 18" cord with the same port by another manufacturer, I'll get it, but no luck so far.
5|I'm happy with this drive, its got plenty of space to store all my stuff and then some.
4|Good little drive. Not the fastest, but good for general purpose or backup.
1|broke on me within 2 months and it hasn't left my house or my desk.
1|Wanted to like it I really did. My computer didn't recognize it. Then it did. Then it didn't. Then it did. I downloaded photos off my phone and it was surprisingly slow. Probably was my wifi that was causing it to be slow but still I was surprised it wasn't as fast as I thought it would be. Honestly though you are paying way too much considering you can get the exact same amount of storage without the worthless mobile phone download foat least 100 dollars cheaper.. The Mobile App is awful by the way, they didn't put a whole lot of money into the development of it you can tell. I'm taking it back to Best Buy tomorrow first thing. Seems like a no brainer to me. Probably not getting Seagate again either.lol
4|A good sized drive for backups and storage.
4|portable drive that is slimmer than the 2tb passport and just what my kid needed to back up this school work and fiels.
5|So far has been performing great! Easy to use
5|Using as Time Machine for Mac. It works flawlessly and I did not need to format at all.
5|This is the third seagate purchase. The first purchased over 6 years ago is still working fine.
5|...got this for my niece at Christmas, I got one last year...EXCELLENT product.
4|The first portable 4 TB drive. 4 star because on my desktop I need 2 USB (one USB3 for data and one USB2 for power) connections to powered it. On my netbook with a USB 3.0 one is enough.
4|I think this hard drive is really great. I would have given it 5 stars but the fact that the USB connector is not a standard connection going into the hard drive it becomes impossible to use it if you happen to lose the connector it came with. I broke the one I have because my chair got pushed back against my desktop computer.
5|Good, Data transfer is also fast, pretty handy. No Heating issues or other...
5|Great product, works well; small, thin and fast.
5|I used this drive for my PS4 and it works like a charm! I took it out of the casing and threw her inside and she is enjoying her new home. This was a much better deal than the model without the casing as it is cheaper (even more so with the unpopular colors).
5|We like them for simplicity and reliability.
5|Self powered, fast, small and works. What's not to like.
5|Easy to transfer files and simple interface.
3|It is good to back up one to several files. But I ended up using an old backup drive to backup to transfer all my files to a new computer (clickfree). Over all I was not happy with this product. The only reason I keep the drive, was for moving large files to different comp (my wife work).
5|Perfect, tks
5|love it
5|Excellent HHD and quicker, quieter than my toshiba HDD.
5|This was a great deal when I purchased it, and was able to do a full backup of a pair of computers - media folders included. It has been fast, quiet, and an overall great performer. I can't wait till the 3TB or larger sized drives come out in the 2.5" form factor!
1|Too late I find out that the speed of this drive is at the expense of data security. Twice the risk of losing data since your data is lost if either of the 2 drives contained in this enclosure goes bad. Not only that, but it hogs both ports of my USB on my Macbook Pro. No room for flash drives, or peripherals etc without a hub. I love Seagate drives, but this was a bad choice for me. This one is in the box now and I replaced it with 2 individual Backup Plus Slim 2 Terabyte drives. Almost as fast and much more reliable.
5|I love this hard drive.. Able to save everything used it on different laptops with no issues.
5|Works great
4|This is a great device: small, slim, lightweight...feels sturdy, USB 3...fast. Fast Fast Fast. Large capacity (mine is the 1TB, I wanted the 2TB, but don't need that much (barely need 1TB) and didn't want to spend more). At time of writing, this is the SLIMMEST slim USB 3 drive on the market. Western Digital and Toshiba both make a 'slim' that is a good bit thicker. Western Digital's Ultra Metal model comes close, and may be about the same, but I played with both, and I think the build quality on this guy feels a bit better. I like everything about this except the cable--I never like the cable for external portable drives. The cable for an external hard drive is nearly as important as the drive itself. I wanted something that could connect and be wound to the side (without being damaged over time). I don't want a cable that has to be wound up separately and stored with the drive (in a case?)...its a slim model! The whole package should be small and compact. Silicon Power makes a whole series of nice ones that have integrated cable storage...a separate cable that latches on for storage. They're neat. They're rugged. They're not slim. Anyway, I was hoping something on the market like that existed in a slim form factor. No such luck. My solution is somewhat lo-tech, but it works for me, and keeps everything stored away and neat (see pic). It was hard to find an 'angle' USB 3 cable that recorded full USB-3 speeds. BTW, I bought another one on Amazon here, and it was USB 2 speeds, though advertised as being full USB 3 speed. I'm still not happy with the length of the cable I found, I would have wanted another 2-4" (don't we all?). But it does the job.
1|I bought this for a system image backup for my system. It didn't last a year and it broke on me taking all my files with it. I didn't back up my back up because..that's why I had a back up. So I contacted seagate, the drivers and recovery software did not work. I contacted Amazon and after a few calls back and forth I got a full refund after sending the product back. I have had other seagate hard drives in the past and they lasted a good while before biting the dust. I am not going back to seagate I am sticking with Fantom, I have two of their externals, 1TB, and 2TB, and both have lasted over 4 years no problems.
2|It works just fine with a Macbook Air, but after just a couple of months it has developed a serious problem. Though it is intended for portable use, the movement of the cable has loosened the port, so the cable so longer snugly inserts. It works, but I can see that it will have a short life span. Seagate should expect that there will be some wear on the port given the drive’s portability, and made the port more rugged.
1|Drive may work well, but the backup software is a nightmare! Windows recognizes the drive, but their software will not. Therefore the drive will not work without the software. Spent 2 hours on phone with Seagate, they captured my computer and still couldn't figure it out. Told me to buy third party back up software. Excuse me? If you see this drive on "net" or are thinking of buying Seagate...run..run..turn your back and run as fat as you can away from this product.
5|great drive. great physical size
5|tiny and quiet, constantly backs up my hardrive. Love it.
5|100%
5|Straightforward!
1|This item failed in less than 60 days. It has a 1 year limited warranty. I have not been able to make any human connection with Seagate. Amazon.com advises me that to much time has past for me to return it to them. This is support at its worst.
5|Great product! Would and have bought another one.
5|Great product
1|Great back up tool
5|I use this drive to do weekly backups on my computer at home. It's fast, compact and quiet. I like the fact that it doesn't require a wall plug for power.
5|Love this. Depend on it all the time.
5|I have one of these at work and another at home. It is very easy to use, small, and lightweight. It works on a Mac or PC. This device definitely gives me peace of mind that my computer is backed up in the event of a crash.
4|Couldn't get it to work with Seagate software. Tech support told me to try it with File History (native in Windows 8) and I'm happy with it running that way.
5|Great "Backup External" hard drive. I bought this to backup my Asus Laptop that has Windows 8. I will use this drive for when Windows 10 is released so I can revert "back" to Windows 8 if 10 has problems. I currently have 2 of these drives and both work very well. Love that I can use these drives without having a Large External Drive to store and I don't have to have external power supplies to deal with. These drives are very small in size and have large storage capacity. Overall, these drives are dependable and worth having!
1|It worked great, until it didn't. I've owned this drive for just over 3 months and now I own an external drive that's not working. Seagate's "SeaTools" can't repair it. Their online Troubleshooting guide isn't doing the trick either. The only option I have left is to try and recover my files using Seagate's File Recovery for Windows...at a cost of $100! How's that for a rip-off? This drive is a huge pain in the ass. I'd suggest thinking long and hard before buying it.
5|Best external hard drive I have ever bought. It is super slim, and does every thing a hard drive should. Very quiet and feels good in the hands. For the price it can not be beat!! I would buy again. My local Apple store carries these and actually recommends them.
1|It's pretty good at first but it does get hot after using it for a while. I am using it to backup my data. I don't get the fast data transfers when copying files, they are usually around 60 MB/s. Update: It is now having file system errors and data is getting corrupted. Chkdsk has to be run to try to save some of my files. I've purchased a Western Digital Ultra Passport instead.
5|Great item, and a great price. Also recieved on time. A+
1|I'm extremely disappointed with the quality of this product. I purchased this product for my wife as a birthday gift (December 2014) so that she could back up tons of photos on her Iphone and make room to download new IOS updates. The Seagate drive worked perfectly fine for 2 months without any issues and then all of the sudden, the drive is no longer being recognized by any of my computers. My wife is extremely upset because she already deleted multiple photos from Iphone and expected them to be on the seagate drive. Now it looks like the seagate drive is a complete bust and precious pictures have been lost. Once the drive gets plugged in to the USB port, all we hear is a screeching noise and see a solid white light for 20 seconds and then a flashing light with nothing being recognized by any of my computers. Unless Seagate replaces this drive (through waranty) and recovers my data at no extra cost (yeah right), I will never purchase another Seagate product again.
5|Compact ... Light and lots of space on this 2TB ... 3.0USB
5|good!!
5|cool slim. easy use.
5|Arrived on time and installed like cake. Works great and is faster than I expected. Told several people to pick one up.
5|This is a really slim portable hard drive, loved it!
1|AVOID THIS DRIVE. I bought it in November 2014; it failed completely by Feb. 2015, even though I was very, very careful with it. It was never dropped at all, I kept it in a cushioned case and used it sparingly. The drive is under warranty for another nine months, but Seagate will charge me $500 to recover data, which is out of this photographer's budget. The do-it-yourself Seagate recovery software did not work--it said the drive was too corrupted. I am no computer genius, but I don't understand why the drive would be so corrupted. Most files on there are also on my Western Digital hard drive. Unfortunately, I was copying the rest of the Seagate photo files to the WD drive when the Seagate failed. So, there are a few hundred important photos that I've lost. In the future, I'm buying Western Digital, and the data recovery insurance with it.
3|not for me
5|Works as expected for recording TV on a Tablo device.
5|Great.
5|Worked perfectly to upgrade my ps4!!!! Digital games here I come!!! Look on YouTube for an instructional video on installing.
5|Awesome design, very slim, the metal case gives it a very refined look. Works perfectly! It's the best external HDD I've had so far, and I've been through several Iomegas, WDs, and other models of Seagate.
5|Works great for the Xbox One.
5|Fantastic Hard drive writes at close to 50mb/s when connected to USB 3.0 and just under 40mb/s when attached with USB 2.0 love the drive glad I bought it and it even got delivered on a Sunday woot woot.
5|4TB portable harddisk is quite big with amazing transfer speed, with only 1 usb3.0 to drive,make me also very surprised! the size is also acceptable!!!
5|works great ripped out the hard drive put it in my ps4 then put Old ps4 hard drive in case the new One came in for an extra external hard drive
1|First one was DOA (Dead on Arrival). I am no stranger to mass produced consumer electronics, so I opted to have a replacement sent to me. The replacement failed after only a couple of hours. I have to conclude that this drive is riddled w' systemic problems. It's a shame too because I REALLY NEED high capacity (4TB) portable storage, and there is only one other option (WD My Passport Pro) which is also riddled w' systemic problems. I've got an idea....how about Y'all give us a 4TB portable option that is not Raid 0 configured? Now I have to buy two 2TB WD Passport drives.....ughh! I say WD Passport because I have 5 of them, and after several years of constant operation they are still chugging along. I trust those drives. Wish I could have said the same for Seagate's offering :/
5|Great item fast shipping, perfect design
4|works good. takes a little time though.
5|Easy to used.
1|I have had this drive less than three months and it failed. What a waste of money.
5|This drive is incredible, awesome size and extremely easy to remove from the chassis. For those installing this drive into a PS4 system be absolutely sure to download the full system firmware from the link towards the bottom of this page http://www.playstation.com/en-us/support/system-updates/ps4/#newinstallation The file must be the new installation full firmware and NOT just the update diwnload at the top or it will not work
5|Works great and a good price.
5|This is a good product
4|working great so far, will see after a 6 month deployment. The 4TB comes as a single slotted disk space, but I formatted a partition for 2TB FAT system and 2TB for MAC OS Journaled. I use the FAT side for backing up my Dell Precision 6800 and the MAC side for Encrypted Time Machine backups of my File Vault encrypted MacBook Pro with a Samsung SSD hard drive. When I hook up the partitioned drive to my MacBook, both the FAT & MAC OS partitioned sides show up on my MacbookPro desktop at the same time. Same same for hooking up to my Windows 7 laptop.
5|Excellent quality drive. Works exactly as expected. Very quick service by the seller as well. Removed from the case and works perfectly as a replacement drive for my HP Pavilion Dv7
5|Considerably smaller and faster than I could have ever imagined. The bright blue makes it easy to see in my bag. Super easy plug and play setup. Will continue to buy Seagate drives in the future with the kind of quality and value they've delivered for the past decade.
5|About half the width of the Passport. Like how small it is!
5|Really fast, super slim and small, excellent quality and durability. I couldn't be more happy.
5|Would never be without this. After having a computer break and going through all that trouble this has definitely put my mind @ ease. Worth the $$$$.
5|If you are a blended family (PC & MAC), this is the back up and storage drive for you. U Tube video was very helpful in partitioning the drive so there is no re-formating required when you go back and forth. If it holds up, I will continue to love it. So far so good!
5|What a wonderful Product. I am totally satisfied above my expectations! Will buy again!
5|Works perfect.
5|Received this drive on time. Took apart the case and used it to upgrade my PS4. So far it has held up to a weekend of gaming. Good price as well.
5|Good one..
5|Saved my files when the computer crashed - what more could you ask. Was much simpler to use than what I was trying it to be.
5|So much love... this item it's perfect 100% recommended
5|I am extremely pleased. I have bought Seagate over the years and been satisfied. I bought one of these units and was so impressed I bought three more and gave to my family members. Really nice!
5|Works great!
5|Love it!
5|This turned out to be better than I thought. It's compact, small, easy to use and does everything I need it to do.
5|Very portable, strong and reliable.
4|Very happy with product
5|Excellent little drive.
5|very good
3|Perfect
3|It works so far
5|Great Product
5|works great,easy to use. thanks
5|excellent
5|Awesome portable hard drive as expected from Seagate.
4|I did a lot of research to make sure that this was compatible to use with my iPad Air with wifi, and everything said that it was perfect for it. It probably would be, if I could get it to let me make an account to set up my mobile dropbox. Oh well, it still works as a 1TB external harddrive that is nice and small and I can carry around with me.
5|good price and on time
5|This is a great little drive! I work in tech and need a large amount of storage. So far, so good!
4|I'll keep it but, if I had to do it over again, I'd pass on this. Here's why: 1) It has a proprietary cable which is maddeningly short. 2) It has a metallic appearance, but the case is not metal - cheap plastic. And when I say cheap I mean it feels like a minor bump will crack the case. Yes, it works for backups and it's a very svelte package. Still, I'd keep looking and pass on this one. UPDATE: Okay, I'm kinda stupid at times. The proprietary cable appears to be more or less standard when I compared with other drives at BB and Costco. I wish the casing was a little more durable but it's not like I'll be throwing these against a wall - just shuttling to and from the office to have an off-site backup.
5|Seamless backups. I use another brand day to day, but use this once per month so when the Russian mafia encripts my files and my day to day backup I will still have the monthly back up. Just plug it in and it does it all without intervention.
5|Working great with my Tablo.
5|I use this as the Time Machine drive on my new MAC desktop computer. Works fine.
4|Excellent quality, small and very portable.
5|I have nearly 2,200 movies on this hard drive that we use to store our collection. It has held up really well and is much more durable than the other ones I have had in the past. The speed is plenty quick and the HD makes very little sound. I am quite impressed by how well constructed these drives are. We currently have two and plan to purchase more for backup's. I would highly suggest this hard drive if you are looking for portable, durable, and slim.
5|works well and is easy to use
5|Awesome product as promised#
5|Great item at a very good price. Works as expected.
5|excellent addition to computer for backup of important files
5|Good price.
5|I am pleased with the purchase.
5|Great, great product. Gives user around 3.7 TB of usable storage-- very fast read/write speeds. I'm very impressed with Seagate on this one.
5|Nice small portable hard drive, quick, small and compact enough and yet enough hard drive space to use for working on systems and transferring data or backup data from one system to another.
2|I was honestly astonished to dig back in my Amazon order history, find this drive and see it had close to 5 stars. I purchased this in April 2014 and this will be my second time sending it back as a defective drive because it suddenly stopped working. AWESOME product when it works. Looks great, is tiny and light, and easy to use (again, when it is working). I had an issue a few months back where just like this time, the drive stopped working randomly. My Mac (up-to-date) would not be able to detect the drive...followed all of the troubleshooting steps, etc. Nada. Under warranty so I was able to get another one luckily. But here we are again.
5|it works
5|Small, compact and works well. I might get another.
5|Works great
5|This is an excellent product! Just plug it in through USB and forget it!
5|Very compact! I am very impressed with the small size of this hard drive. I used it to backup my Macbook Air. Did not use the seagate software that come with the drive. Just use the Time machine from Mac. Backup and restore both work perfectly.
1|I plugged in this device into my Surface Pro 3 and right from the start it did not work . Apparantly the device drivers cannot load. I tried updating drivers and did not work. I tried uninstalling it , it did not work. I will return it unless someone contacts with where I can get proper drivers for this. Bad.
5|Fast and small... works great.
5|Always nice to use for backup. Never had any problems. Super slim and lightweight for travel.
4|Not sure why but this drive is cheaper with the enclosure than it is as a bare drive. For that reason I ordered this as a replacement drive for my PS4. I took the drive out of the case and swapped it with my PS4 drive. Both are working flawlessly.
5|Easy setup, I did reformat it to suit my needs. I travel extensively, and use this as the primary drive for Virtual Machines. Drive read/write is pretty good using USB 3, and has become a stable part of my travel bag. I've bought a second one to use as backup storage of my client data. I do use this drive on both Mac and PC's, and haven't had a single issue on either platform.
5|I bought this as a gift since my friend has a new dslr camera and takes lots of high resolution pictures. No complaints! They hard drive was compatible with her windows based laptop and she's been using it ever since I gave it to her.
5|Plug and play, it couldn't be any easier to set these up. I have two running on different schedule. Supplied interface software supports with no issue
1|Didn't work at all, my computer won't recognize it
5|easy just keep by you computer and download.
5|Bought this to pair with a Tablo DVR (2-tuner) and so far it's working just fine.
5|It's so easy to portable.
5|Got this as a gift for my sister to back up music and pictures. Everything is safe now and she likes it.
4|The wifi for uploads from your phones get error and stops loading. But I guess that's why you shouldn't go over Wi-Fi
5|Great product. Would recommend.
5|Unbelievably easy to use and so far so good. I've had it about 4 months now.
5|Brand new fast shipping work great thank you
5|Bought for my daughter as a back-up. She likes it!
5|really happy whit this purchase
4|I needed to back up files on my desktop (windows 7) and other external HDD and found this HDD to be pretty good at the job. Installation was easy and the backup app was simple and intuitive. Like the WD My Passport Ultra the app gives you two options: guided or all file back up. The guided back up will find files that fit certain categories (like music, photos, etc) as well as any non system folder and back them up. The all file back up will copy all folders that you select. I had issues with the all file back up as it refused to copy certain folders (like program files). In the end I had to manually copy a couple folders over to the hard drive that were not copied by the software. This wasn't much of an issue with my desktop but it would have been with my older laptop which had more data stored under folders like program files. I imagine this issue has been resolved but I didn't take the time to look into it. The back up files were easy to locate on the hard drive. I found the social media backup app to be a really useful and easy piece of software. I only used it for facebook but all you have to do is sign in and the software will automatically download all videos and pictures from you profile, including ones you were tagged in. This was something I had always wanted to do but never took the time to find a program to do it. It was definitely a nice addition. With USB 3.0 it took about 3-4 hours to backup 300 GB of data. Of course once you get the first backup completed it won't take as only with the updates.
5|IT'S EXCELLENT
5|Works great
5|This is an excellent compact drive, very thin. The large capacity and 3.0 usb speed works great. Works almost better than a jump drive because of the capacity, but obviously a little larger.
4|The drive arrived as advertised. Its small and fast (for a 5200rpm drive).
5|Works great and a lot of storage
4|It's much lighter than i expected. Totally worth the buy.
5|Delivery was fast and product is awesome.
5|Works great for wired transfers and solved my wife's issue with transferring her pictures from her phone to her computer. For some reason, Samsung phones make this task very hard to accomplish, where my Motorola phone comes with a program called MotoCast and it transfers all the pictures I have taken automatically to my computer any time I have it on.
4|I had connection problems after a couple of months, but I replaced the USB 3.0 cable and it has been solid since.
5|Fast, great price, and does the job. Honestly, I was surprised at how fast USB 3.0 consistently is. I highly recommend this product.
1|I only wish I had the option to give it zero stars... For anyone hoping to just be able to plug it in and go, you're going to be horribly, miserably disappointed. And if you're hoping to transfer files from one computer to another using this, you're going to be sadly disappointed as well. Save your money.
5|works great
5|Great product, does exactly what I wanted. Easy to use with both a mac and a pc
3|It works.
3|It's okay for windows, but for MAC is necessary to install a specific software. I had some problems.
5|Love it no problems since my purchase and especially happy that the 3-yr service agreement is available
1|I bought this for 2 simple reasons. 1.) Quoted transfer speed being roughly double a typical external drive. 2.) USB powered. 1.) The transfer speed when writing from a networked Synology DS411+ NAS box was pretty good at an average around 50MBps. Larger files were up around 65MBps (videos) and smaller files (MP3 audio) bottomed out in the 35MBps range. Not the quoted speed, but the marketing speeds are typically for reads, not writes because write speeds are generally lower for HDD's. Plus you have the factor of data coming across a Gigabit Ethernet connection between the NAS and my desktop IC. All in all, I considered it a perfectly reasonable speed. Not perfect, but still good. 4 out of 5 stars 2.) The problem is that I could not get the drive to work from USB power on 3 different computers. The power LED would light and the drive would sort of spin, but none of the computers (2 desktops with USB 3.0 and a laptop with USB 2.0 only) were able to connect with the drive. I was about to seek an RMA replacement when I decided to give it one more go with an external USB power supply I happened to have nearby. Boom, connected immediately with no I/O failures and the data write speeds quoted above. So it works great with an external supply that is not included with the drive, but no dice on USB power. Critical failure IMHO. 0 out of 5 stars Update 2/19: Yeah, it died completely now. Very disappointed with this drive. I've used lots of Seagate products over the years, generally with good experiences, but not so much on this one. Update 9/20: I sat this drive aside and completely forgot about it until now. It is working again, and I now know why it failed in the first place. Based on past experience when something like this stops working, but starts working again later it is usually temperature related. I loaded some SMART monitoring software on my PC and started another large write to the drive. Sure enough, after about 20 minutes, the reported temperature had reached 128 Fahrenheit and was still climbing when I shut it down. This is in a 72 F room with the drive sitting on a USB stick on my desk to elevate it and make sure it had airflow on all sides. Thermal design is clearly a problem on this drive. If it overheats before I can transfer 4TB of data to it, it's pretty useless as a backup drive. I was also dumbfounded by all the good reviews, but then realized Amazon is lumping this drive together which several other Seagate models which have no mechanical relationship to this 4TB Backup Plus Fast drive. If you sift through the reviews, a decent percentage of the 1 stars are for this particular model. The lumped reviews are masking the issues with this particular drive. I would highly recommend steering clear of it. Even if I get a warranty replacement from Seagate, I expect it will work the same and I am well outside any return windows, so I'm stuck with this paperweight.
5|I got this based on good reviews. I got it January 4, 2015 so its a bit early but so far it works fantastic. I use it for my movies. I have PLEX and it goes there to access them. No delays and I feel it was a great investment at a decent price.
5|Needed something to take with on trips to back up all my photos, this does the trick.
5|Such an improvement on my old 2008 Seagate. Smaller, no need to plug into the wall, and much faster, as well as more storage space.
5|This little thing lived up to my expectations. Easy to use and super-easy to transport. Never had a problem with Seagate and this is no exception.
5|Love the size
5|?
5|works as expected.
5|I love it !.
4|good
5|I ordered it on the 12th. Amazon said to expect it on the 23rd. Got it on the 14th. I was shocked. Plugged it in and it worked great. I am so happy. I had another one that I returned because it wouldn't work with my laptop. I would order from EZ overstock again.
4|Good capacity but bad software.
5|Great value when you can grab these on sale. I've set each family member up with one to ensure no issues with backups, lost files, etc.
5|I popped this open and installed the 2 TB drive in my PS4. It worked like a charm, completely painless. If you're looking for a HDD upgrade for your PS4, this is it. I didn't actually use it as an external drive, but I definitely like how the enclosure looks. It's very slick. Either way, I say buy it.
5|I love it~ thank you. The goods arrived in good order.
5|Using this as extra storage for my Xbox One. No thicker than a Blu-Ray case. It uses the USB to power itself and is practically invisible.
5|Stores so much and easy to use.
5|so far no problem
5|works great!
5|Great value. I partitioned this HD to use with my MacBook Pro. One portion of it is for time machine backups and the rest for data back ups. I would buy again.
5|This will serve as a backup only external and so far (2 weeks), works great!
1|Crashed after a few months. Horrible just as WD.
5|This is great - works with Mac and Windows
2|Sent it back. Software would not load on my PC. Could not use it.
5|does the job
5|So thin! Or slim... Yes this is a great portable external drive. I have a 500gb seafarers hard drive already but I bought this only to use as backup with my MacBook. Initial registration and set up was easy. I used DiskUtility to Partition the drive into 2 parts (600gb and 400gb). Back up with TimeMachine on Mac was simple and fast enough. Great product.
5|I can save everything that I every owned in this little hard drive. I back my computer up with this. It works very very well.
5|It works great. I partitioned it in to 2 drives and use them for pictures, music and downloads. Even when hooked to USB2 it is fast but faster still when USB3.
4|I bought this due to it being the only portable hard drive I could find with a 4TB capacity. I use it with my Mac and have no complaints. The only things I have noticed is that when I try to search for files it does not work. That might be a Mac issue but I do not have the same problem with my other external drives.
1|Attempts to back up iPhone 6 using the Seagate app fails. Even though both computer and phone are on same wifi it can't detect the drive. Paper weight.
5|Great
5|This is great - works with Mac and Windows
5|A solid hard drive! I own two!
4|have been heard a little sound
5|I got this for my mom. She loves it. Great price on amazon!
5|Excellent ---I have been needing one for years
4|Great product and fast.
4|Nice. Easy to start up backing up data.
5|Working well with our DVR
5|Excellent drives from Seagate. Very fast and work well. Comes with the USB 3.0 Cable.
5|This thing is quite convenient. It runs easily off an unpowered usb3.0 hub. I use it for time machine backups on my macbook pro.
1|Doesn't work. My Macbook Pro Retina 2014 does not recognize the hard drive. The tech support page of Seagate wasn't even written for this drive, but is generic and refers to things (such as making sure you've got the drive plugged into an outlet properly) that do not apply to this product. I bought a MyBook for Mac, and it has worked perfectly for months and months. I love it. Seagate though is total crap. This product should not even be sold on Amazon. It's criminal to frustrate so many people and worse, to cause people to lose their data. The positive reviews, many of them, are from people who haven't had the drive for more than a few weeks. What's funny is that the only other time I had a hard drive disaster was decades ago in 1987, and it was a Seagate too! As far as I'm concerned Seagate is to be avoided at all costs. Disgusting irresponsible company.
5|Very good
5|Works great as expected
5|I bought this Hard Drive for my Xbox One because 500 gb internal was not enough seeing as how an average game is almost 50 GB alone. This HD is awesome period. For the memory capacity and overall size and weight you just cannot complain about this product. I now store all my games on this HD for my Xbox One and plan on never having to buy another external hard drive again. I highly recommend this to anyone looking for a HD for their Xbox One.
4|pretty cool
5|As always, Seagate products are of the highest quality. Super price for such excellence.
5|Very reliable I just bought too much storage!
5|My son advised me to get one of these for travelling --- glad I listened... it works great so far, no issue and is exactly what I needed!
1|This product didn't even last me 6 months! I bought it in July and it pooped in January. One day I went to go update it and it wasn't being picked up by any computer. I have come to understand that none of these external drives are reliable and to have more that one backup.
5|good!
5|This is an excellent product. It is very flexible in terms of responding to different operating systems, and easy to use. The size and the esthetic appeal are also remarkable. I recently took it on a trip with me, and found it to be practical for transport and occasional use for back ups and storage needs.
5|Great product! I've been using it for the past month with no issue! Significantly faster transfers than my last external drive (USB 2.0).
4|Compact size, good value, and decent speed. This is exactly what I was looking for
5|A little slower than I was hoping for. Those that say it just as fast as thunderbolt are full of it.
5|It is very easy to carry and works very well.
5|The Seagate Backup Slim Plus works great. I could not figured how to format for it to work for PC and Mac. So far it works great with Mac.
4|Amazing external!
5|Works great with my son's Xbox One. No complaints.
5|Great hard drive for a PS4 swap.
5|I got it when I was told, I'd be reviving it. Even in the start of a blizzard, it arrived!
5|Easy set up and back up! Love the slim design as it takes up very little space.
3|While the drive seems ok, I was at first alarmed because the drive would cut in and out, but it turned out to be a faulty cable that came with it. I have since replaced that with a very rugged cable bought here on Amazon and it's been a good drive and would recommend it. but, be warned, the cable you get may be suspect, so try a different cable before you send the drive back.
1|Software crashes continually and must be repaired/reinstalled. No firmware update available. Several re-installs of software. Not a bad piece of hardware, but the Seagate software gets worse with each "update" and "bug fix" New update: after several Seagate "bug fixes" still very unreliable.
1|I have about a dozen of these Seagate portable drives and have never had a problem until this one. I received it just a few weeks ago and used it to backup my entire Windows 7 computer. When I went to restore files, or run any exe file or even open a text file, I am getting access denied errors and need administrator privileges and I am totally denied access to my own files on the computer they were created on. I have other backups of some of these files on older Seagate drives and a usb thumb drive and the very same files are no problem at all for me to access. I contacted Seagate and all they would do is direct me to some article from Microsoft about file and folder permissions, a subject I've never been able to make any sense of. No matter how seriously I read the details of permissions, it always becomes a game of who goes first: do I get permissions or do I give myself permissions. It is a losing proposition I can tell you from past experiences dealing with Microsoft security and file and folder permissions. I can only believe there is something wrong with the drivers or firmware or something that causes the problem to exist on this Seagate drive only. I would not take another chance on any Seagate drive as my data is too valuable to have something like this go wrong and then the lack of support from Seagate. If you value your data at all, do not buy or use one of these drives, even if given to you for free. One additional thought: to find out the length of the warranty, you must send an email request to Amazon. This is absurd as all other products are honest and open about their warranty terms. For some reason, they are keeping this warranty a secret and that is a very bad sign.
5|Nice...Nice...Nice...I put all my movies... plug it at the back of my samsung LED tv ...WALA... now I can watch all my favorite movies anytime... thanks.... OOOPS...ARRIVED ON TIME
1|This product is a waste of money because you cannot password protect it!!!! Waste of my time and money, best to go with WD drives!!!
5|Easy to use and take along with me. I had tried to use a regular external drive and it was not built to be portable and quit working due to the jarring of being carried in my laptop bag. Get a drive that is built to be portable to protect your work.
5|As described, will do business with again!
1|Could not find my files I stored after a month. Do not buy this product.
5|Great for backing up the home PC
1|Very unhappy with this product. It completely stopped working literally 2 days past the return date. I tried getting help from sea gate, but the hard drive apparently has no factory warrantee. I have been in the professional digital world (video/web/design) for over a decade. I have had dozens of hard drives over these years and none of them broke in the first month of using it! I use my hard drive with a stationary desktop. I don't edit video from it, it's strictly a back-up drive. I am so disappointed. I spent at least three hours labor ing over hard drive comparisons and thought i had found a winner. I feel ripped of and dumb. Thankfully my computer still works and I didn't necessarily lose any data for good... But I am out the money that I spent on this, and to me it was an investment.
5|Truly portable device with expected size.
4|Hard drive is not sealed, can be directly removed. Do not know who changed the. Did not test for bad blocks, the software does not take. Simple look, three discs, 32M cache. sumsung m9t. to PS4 change, ps4 original is sumsung, but this will be slightly slower, it should be more a result of the number plate. Game card, but reading and switching will be black and waiting. A lot slower than I hgst 7200 1t on the PS3.
5|Prompt delivery-great product! Would definitely buy again!
5|Great buy!
2|Very frustrated to find this drive locked in read-only privileges no matter what I do to it. It's formatted in MS-DOS FAT mode, making it incompatible with MacOS. In theory, one should be able to reformat it. In practice... nope. I tried installing the bundled software hoping it included a utility to reformat the drive to make it Mac-compatible. No go. I tried downloading the GoFlex driver from Seagate's website, which claimed it would let a Mac talk to the drive. Nope. I tried using Mac Disk Utility to reformat the drive, but it refuses to unmount, so reformatting can't proceed. At this point I'm stumped. And yet I purchased another Seagate slim drive last year that worked right out of the box. What gives? I'm going to return it and order something different. There's probably some way to fix it, but I've wasted two hours troubleshooting what should be a simple install.
5|5 star so far. Hope no issues like others have had.
5|Awesome
4|Although it has a continuous backup feature, when I tried to use it it slowed down the computer so badly I couldn't use it. It seems to work fine in the once a day mode, which is all I need anyway.
5|It was worth every penny!
5|Great, just what I wanted.
5|perfect Size. Very elegant presentation. works real fast . I just love it!!!!!
5|I purchased this portable hard drive simply to strip the hard drive out of the enclosure and add it to my laptop. I figured 2TB for $99 is a steal. Just do a search for 2TB laptop hard drive, and you'll see why. The enclosure took a bit of patience to crack, but I eventually got it. I actually purchased this expecting that I would destroy the case in the process, but after removing the hard drive, and some insulation foil from the hard drive I was able to appropriate my old laptop hard drive (500GB) into my PlayStation 3, and the 60GB PlayStation 3 hard drive into this enclosure. Sure, they make USB sticks larger than 60GB now, but hey, I considered the enclosure to be a loss anyway, so it's just a bonus. The enclosure snapped back together pretty easily with minimal force. Overall I am very happy with this purchase.
3|metal casing does not absorb shock well. very good hard drive otherwise
5|Great... Love the size...A+++++YABBA DABBA DOO
5|can help you transmission very quickly and much small we can take it very convenient.
5|Seems to be doing a great job in backing up. Easy to set up, and very pleased with the price.
1|Received this Seagate 2TB Portable Hard Drive and was packed and shipped just fine. However, the it DOES NOT backup as advertised and promoted by Seagate. It will only do one backup and then fails on any further scheduled backups. Also, will not backup any of the additional drives on my computer other than the 'C' drive. If you specify another drive to backup it will do that one once and quit. This drive is very compact and portable but the backup function is basically useless. I had another, older Seagate that finally bit the dust and it backed up everything very reliably, not this one.
5|Amazing product at an amazing price. This serves as one of my main back up drives. Speed is great and matches well with my MBP.
5|fast speed and enough place to store my data
5|So compact and cute, yet very fast. I'm very pleased
5|I'm using it for my Time Machine drive on my MacBook Pro. I like it because 1) it works like a charm and 2) it stays out of the way.
5|Love it
5|Works perfectly. Heats up quite a bit though after awhile though, which is normal for what it is.
4|More space.
5|Excellent hard drive with multi support for windows and mac, also high quality of Seagate
2|I was disappointed that it does not work easily on Mac, despite its labeling. Had to go through hoops to get it Mac compatible. Phone reps were very helpful, though. I should have ordered the version exclusively for Mac. I gave up and restored it to factory settings and will use it with my other computer (HP PC).
5|As described
5|Attended my expectations, beautiful and thin!!
5|Love it
5|Nothing else to add.
5|Works great in my playstation 4!
2|This drive was DOA. I purchased back in July 2014 (bought on sale), and let it sit on my shelf until this morning. Tried it on my MacBook rPro and it wasn't recognized, neither was it recognized on my Windows 8.1 box. The reason I'm giving it a 2 instead of a one is that tech support was relatively painless and fairly quick (will cost me 10$ to have a replacement shipped with prepaid return - I think if I had just bought it this would have been free).
5|This is great for backing up your data. It is thin and you do not need external power, it uses the usb to power the drive.
5|Large size and it is very small and light (about 5.5 oz) which is a plus as I use this when I travel with my laptop. It has a small LED light (as seen in the upper left of the product picture) which lights up when it is active. It has a nice feature that the drive turns off when you are not using it so it does not drain your laptop battery while idle. The power usage is around 2.25 watts at full usage. I never had an issue with the speed of the drive and I occasionally run HD movies off of the drive which is a read speed of about 10 MB/s which is not much of a load on the drive. I assume it can read much faster as I transferred a mixture of files and movies to the drive at an average speed of 80 MB/s from my laptop. It is hard to tell what exactly was limiting the speed to 80 MB/s but that still is impressive as I was transferring 160 GB in just about a half hour. and i did not notice any noise or heat coming from it. I do not need the back up software so I do not have any comments on that Key Points: Small (only a half inch thick) Light weight (just a tad heavier than you average cell phone if not the same) Fast speed (over 80 MB/s transfer speed on USB 3.0) Very quiet and does not heat up noticeably I recommend to any one who needs the extra room in their computer. One thing to remember: The more files you have on your primary drive on you computer the slower it will start up so save any files on this drive and your computer will run smoother, also you have the benefit of ease of transporting files between computers. Update: After testing I have reached a maximum write speed of 115 MB/s and read of 117 MB/s. This seems to be the highest I can get out of this. It is not the fastest drive, but for the majority of people this should be enough speed.
5|Was delivered on time as indicated. Very sleek and easy to carry. I absolutely love it and it works fast as well.
5|Fast, slim and good looking.
5|Did exactly what it was intended to do, although my main purpose was to take it apart and use the hard drive for my PS4 and it worked flawlessly had it for 4 months so far, no issue, and it fit perfectly.
5|This is a great Backup hard drive. I use is to keep Image Copy Backup files and to transport larger 5gb video files from one PC to another. With the USB-3 adapter it is quite fast and plenty of space..........
1|I wish there was a way to get rid of the automatic back up so I can use it more like an external hard drive. Maybe you can but i sure don't know how.
3|Does not backup files in the root, only files within a folder.
5|I love my Seagate Hard Drive. It is very compact and it does what it needs to do.
5|Very nice and compact. Compatible with my Wii U,without having to be powered by an external source
5|Grt product!
5|Will purchase again.
5|Excellent drive. I use as the Time Machine backup for my Macbook Pro. Fast, simple to use. Lightweight and easy to handle.
5|It arrive fast. And the HD was good
5|Very compact for the size, so far holding up well. A small concern is that internally it consists of two separate 2TB drives, which doubles the chance of failure.
3|hooked it up to my Mabcook Pro- kind of hard to manuever, but that could be user error. so far so good.
5|good
5|The Seagate Backup Plus 2 TB Portable External Harddrive is fast and reliable. I love it.
4|GREAT BACK UP DEVICE
4|came on time.As promise got within two days.Will order again.And BTW this hard drive is soo thin.Love it.
5|Very easy set-up, slim design and very fast. This replaced MY WD Passport which died after several years. Hated the Smart Ware. The Seagate is heads-above all the rest and this small drive is just what I was searching for.
5|It's just amazing!!!
4|seems o.k.
5|I got this for my daughter. She has a laptop and got a virus the second week. She luckily had backed everything up. Easy to use.
5|This is perfect size and looks great. Dont know why they had to change the plug to the device but I guess they have some reason. The USB is still the same so no big deal.
5|Now I have the pretty blue one to go with the red :) I needed a second external hard drive and this was works great. Simple and easy. It's smaller than my red one but has twice the space!
5|Excelent
3|The best rating I can give is three stars. Yes, it holds a whole lot of stuff, and yes its pretty fast. BUT IT IS A POWER HOG! When powered only on my laptop's busspower, videos will lock up. The only way I can get it to work consistently with my laptop is to connect it to a POWERED USB hub. (I/e, one with a separate power adapter) such as the Amazon Basics one at http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00DQFGH80/ref=sr_ph?ie=UTF8&qid=1422746023&sr=1&keywords=amazon+basics+usb+hub
5|Great product at a great price. Use it for backing up my hard drives on multiple computers.
5|Once I figured it out it is great
5|Works very well in the ps4.
5|So far, so good, easy to use.
5|It's really fast! ~230MBps transfer speeds to and from my internal SSD. It tends to heat up somewhat after a long use (~6-7hrs)
5|Small, fast and portable. This is the smallest portable hard drive I have found and it has a nice brushed aluminum finish.
5|This is a great backup drive. I like that the top of the case is aluminum instead of plastic, like a lot of drives. The included software is easy to use. I am using it as a network drive hooked up to an Asus RT-N66U Wrireless Router via USB 2.0. I have this Seagate drive mapped as network drive and use Cobian to back up several PCs. It has enough capacity to back up multiple PCs, and the speed is OK. I will probably upgrade to a router with USB 3.0 support to take advantage of the faster. file transfer speeds. I used the Seagate Dashboard software that was included to back up a PC directly through the USB 3.0 port and it was significantly faster than using this with a router via USB 2.0.
4|Nice little drive, that works well. Had a little trip up when trying to install the dashboard. It appears that avast antivirus views the install as a virus and blocks it. Not too hard to fix, just go on the virus chest and unblock it. Best bet, would be to shut off the avast until the dashboard is installed. Speed on the USB 3 is really fast.
5|Excellent storage by Seagate, thanks
5|Excellent product, works great so far!
4|This external-drive is great ! It's not slow, no start-up waiting, it's fast & responsive! The only reason I give it 4 stars instead of 5.... it doesn't have encryption hardware. I will be looking for that in the future, but this drive does everything very well!
1|Very disappointed with this drive, it failed within 6 months. Unfortunately I misplaced my warranty info so I am sunk. I will not buy another Seagate that's for sure.
5|didnt work externally for my ps4, but took it apart and inserted in the ps4 and works great.will be buying another bigger one soon
4|I haven't had it for long but so far it rocks!
5|I am a Seagate user and this is nice !
5|Easy to use good value.
5|Used to upgrade ps4 storage space. I followed the step by step guide in another reviewer's comment and everything went fine. I definitely recommend this to anyone looking for an inexpensive upgrade to their ps4.
5|Excellent product. I backed up My computer with no problems whatsoever! I am very pleased with this product!
5|Fast easy transfer of files on a nice small drive.
5|Very quiet, small, and stylish hard drive. I have never noticed any sounds so far. The data transfer rates with USB 3 are fantastic, no complaints there, and the hard drive also seems sturdy enough to have it with me in my laptop bag most of the time.
5|Good price and nice product
5|solid quality and easy to use.
5|Nice
5|This drive hasn't failed in the few months I've used it as a backup drive for my Macbook Air. Written approximately 1.7GB to it two times, so not much of a stress test there.
5|Great buy I bought it to up grade my PS4.
5|Great product.
5|Use it every day with no problems
5|Exactly as expected - great buy!
2|Wish I knew how to work it
5|seagate is just an awesome company. always choose their hard drives and have never been disappointed.
5|Awesome external hard drive. Very small and sleek. Easy to carry around and for the price, wow!! I'm not even thinking about getting the 5TB for my Xbox one. I would highly recommend this product.
2|Used for several backups, now light is lit but none of my computers see it.
5|Was very surprised how small this was for what I stores. Love it. Great not having to have an outlet to plug into as I use my laptop a lot without an outlet. Transfer of data is smooth and painless.
5|Love the price
5|Wow! I am amazed at how small this device is! I have 2 other external hard drives. 1 is 500GB and the other is 750GB -- so both smaller storage than this. they are easily 10 times the bulk though. this backup hard drive does not require an additional power source. Just plug it into your computer and you're set to go. I am happy with my purchase. I just hope that despite it's small size (not much bigger than an old IPod) it is as sturdy as the bulkier hard drives I have.
5|great price great brand
5|STILL HAVE NOT FIGURED HOW TO USE IT
5|I love how much storage this thing has and how you can just transfer your pictures and videos easily on a laptop. I'm not sure if we will ever use up all the storage in it.
5|Oh Yeah! All that space! A much needed back up drive. Quiet and fast.
5|Very reliable storage device. I like this 2tb drive that does not need a separate power ac transformer.
5|Very good product
4|using it for the Xbox One. Great fast hard drive however the Xbox one does seem to not power it on once in a while.
1|This is a terrible hard drive. It has all sorts of proprietary problems. If you plan on using this with a Mac be prepared to spend a lot of time on forums looking for solutions to ransom issues. It comes with an application that does absolutely nothing but prompts you to enter your email ever 5 minutes. Save your money and your sanity.
1|I purchased this item in one of the Amazon quick lightening sales for 25 bucks. Great buy right? Until you find out, like many others that it is a piece of crap that stops working after a short period of useage. The light just blinks and the computer stops recognizing the drive. Tried it on various computers with the same result. Return period is past, I do not have original packaging and have no idea how to get warranty service on this thing. I may get more pleasure just smashing into a wall for $25.00. Proof positive you get what you, in this case, DON'T pay for!
5|love it and i even bought 2 of the backup plus slim.
5|Easy and quick transfer of all my files. Love the size. Easy to carry anywhere. For 2TB the price can't be beat!
5|Nothing is worse than that sickening feeling of running out of storage space on your notebook or desktop PC. The 2 terabyte Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB portable external drive is a bargain for the peace of mind it provides. I paid a small amount more for 2TB versus the 1TB unit and I'm happy I did. I backed up my 250GB drive on my notebook PC, then also offloaded another 219GB to clear space on my notebook and several other external drives. During the transfer process, I experienced speeds of 11.6MB/second over a USB 3 port in the background while going about my normal work routine in the foreground. The unit produces very little heat during operation at 5,400 RPM. It is also extremely quiet and virtually undetectable against typical office background noise. A single led aperture indicator is the only external evidence of operation and can be turned off it it bothers you. The provided USB cable is about 18" and relatively short compared to some other drives, but I find this to be an advantage. I pack it up in my notebook brief case and I hardly know it's there (it is VERY compact and about 3/4 the size of my iPhone 6 Plus). I used the included Seagate Dashboard to schedule and manage my initial and subsequent backups and feel comfortable that my important documents will still be available if my notebook suffers an unrecoverable tragedy. I'll amend this review in the event that I have to restore my system for any reason. Hopefully this doesn't happen, but in the mean time, I have seamless access to data, a complete backup of my primary PC, and a ton of room back. Next, I'm going to back up both the PC and my new Seagate 2TB drive using BackBlaze. Yes, it's a bit of a belt AND suspenders approach, but losing data is not an attractive alternative. I highly recommend this product to anyone who needs a bunch of space for a great price. By the way, my much older 250GB Seagate Free Agent Go drive is still working perfectly after nearly 6 years so I have great expectations for quality and reliability.
5|Guys?it a really nice Portable External Hard Drive indeed, but in fact, it is only as large as 1.8T but 2T. All in all, it is really nice.
1|I've been using this product for about 3 years with a poor overall experience. From day one, there was something wrong with the cable where it would continually disconnect and reconnect if the unit or the PC was disturbed even slightly. The other problem was that to get this unit to work on both a Mac and a PC, it had to be installed and configured. For me, that means finding someone from the help desk to figure it out, someone who has Administrator privileges to the laptop or desktop to which I'm attempting to connect. Most companies that I go in, this is not allowed, although if the unit would simply plug and play without installing special software, it would not have been a problem (for example, when I connect my iPhone to charge, it connects immediately to the corporate PC and is recognized as an queryable external hard drive; same thing with thumb drives. Not so with the Slim). So this fact severely limited the device's utility for me. Finally, and worst of all, I could never get it to automatically upload folders and files from the device up to my Google drive without manually triggering each file copy myself. So I could never just drag a folder containing a bunch of subfolders and files and leave it to upload...ugh!! I had to sit there and spend more than one weekend to finally get all of my files uploaded. I could find nothing online regarding troubleshooting this problem.
4|I bought it to expand the store of my Wii-U and so far it has performed perfectly.
5|Excellent size and nice software!
5|The drive is very compact and light. It is easy to carry around. For 2TB size, it can hold a lot of data.
5|great
5|Works great as a backup drive using mac time machine on our iMac Yosemite.
5|worked as planned
5|Easy set up and it works like stated. My wife was able to set this up without my help
5|Pretty nice and looks great with my mac. Program easy to use.
1|hey. I bought 4~5 month ago.It was very good. But now is not work. Why?Why? what happened? What can i do????
5|great product
5|A good back for the buck -- that's a lot of space for the dollar amount.
5|brilliant! I love it!
5|Love it! Very easy and light!
5|Solid.
5|This is perfect and easy to open up for PS4 HD upgrade
5|Great backup device.
5|Terrific for backing up all your important home or business files! Just plug into a USB and go. Small size and no requirement for an external power source makes it ideal for laptops. HIGHLY recommend for quality and at a price you can't beat!!
4|I recently purchased the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2 TB Portable External HDD primarily to store family photographs. I have it attached to my desktop computer (Sony/ Windows 8) through a USB Hub (KDLinks Super Speed USB 3.0 4 Port Hub). This has worked great out of the box. The included software is not perfect, but is quite functional and allows regular backups of my computer files. Loading other files is easy with Windows. I created a folder on the HDD for my photographs and transferred 183 large graphic files from my camera’s media to the HDD in 27 seconds – nearly 7 photographic files per second. I’m very pleased with this purchase.
5|Perfect upgrade option for the Xbox One.
5|Beautiful and I love it!!!
5|Drive works well - no problems.
5|very good
5|A nice size for caring around, so far it has been reliable and is well made. Sleek and beautiful too!
5|I purchased two drives, a 2TB in Black and a 2TB in Red. They will each take the place of two desktop bound external 2TB drives that have been dutifully serving as my Media and Time Machine drives that, until bad sector errors have reached critical mass, have performed quite well for a few years. It's fortunate that they should choose to die now, as I'm also moving overseas and would have hated for them to go a month or two from now while I'm over there. Portable was definitely the way to go for me. I don't need 7200 or 10800rpm drives and I don't want to be adapting bulky wall warts overseas, either. Now, there's a bunch of options out there from Toshiba, Western Digital, Seagate and many other lesser-known brands for external, portable drives in the 2TB range. I've been mainly a Seagate customer for the past 5 years or so because they've proven to me that their products have a long life and perform well. This was for desktop models only, however, and design never played a part because they are all, pretty much, big and clunky boxes that sit and do nothing. A portable drive is a different story, and I think Seagate has outdone itself with this drive. Design. Before I bought the two Seagate models, I had bought a WD My Passport 2TB drive at Staples. It was alright, but it was very thick. Nearly twice the thickness of my MacBook Air at the hinge end. The chassis was metal surrounded in plastic and it looked alright. It certainly wasn't going to vie with the MacBook Air for looks and I think it suffered because it tries. The performance was fine, just what I'd expect from a portable USB 3.0 drive. The real problem with the design, though, was not the thickness but the shape. There was virtually no flat surface on the drive at all. Every edge was tapered and the flat surfaces had some convexing going on. Mine would rock side to side on a desk and wouldn't stay in position in my lap. I looked on Amazon for alternatives and found this. I'm happy to report that, with the sides leading to the bottom are tapered, the bottom of these drives are flat and are made of a nicely textured plastic that feels good and grips well on a desk or a leg. The top is even better, being a piece of aluminium that is completely flat and very good looking. Despite the colour scheme not being derived from Apple, the slimness and choice of materials certainly make this feel as though it belongs in a bag with my MacBook or on my desk next to my Magic Trackpad. It's the best looking external drive I've seen. The light on it, however, feels distinctly Apple. Overall, the design is excellent and, without going to the lengths of moulding a piece of metal over a bare drive (see the Seagate Seven), this is probably as slim as you can expect these drives to get. It's nice to see products that design around the user and still manage to keep it looking good rather than just make it pretty. Performance and Heat. As said, these replace my other drives that serve other purposes and that are just about full. So, first order of business was to copy over the old Media and backups to the new drives. First, I formatted them for Mac. For those who don't know, you can buy just about any drive and use it for Mac, even if it says Windows or PC. This can save you a lot of money. Just open Disk Utility, click the drive, select Format and click Mac OS Extended (Journaled) or whatever filesystem you'd like to use. After that, I just dragged and dropped. From a USB 3.0 drive to another USB 3.0 drive with my Retina MBP, two terabytes copied in a little over five hours. This puts the total transfer speed around 100MB/s. Pretty damn fast. While the files were transferring, I made sure to keep an eye on the heat coming from the Seagate Slims (well, I kept the back of my hand on it) and was pleased to report that neither the metal top nor the plastic bottom got any hotter than my MacBook Air runs on my lap. That is to say, they didn't get hot at all, merely warm, and I don't think there's a hazard here. Packaging. Who cares? Its a cardboard box around a plastic shell. The tape holding the box shut was annoying like the tape on new DVDs and Blurays that never comes off in one pull, no matter how much you use your nail to free it. Included is the drive, a fact sheet and a USB cable. Who needs more? This is a great buy. At (if I remember what should be the numerator and what the denominator) $0.05/GB this isn't the best you can do for 2TB, but it's really close. I'm happy with the performance, the design is stellar and user-centric and I suspect the lifetime of this product will be far longer than the time it will take me to fill these drives and need bigger ones.
5|Solid external drive. The case is well made. Really no complaints about this product.
5|A must have for storage for your ps4!
5|Used this to add much needed memory to my Xbox One. Plugged in and was ready to go within seconds. Installed games immediately with no issues so far.
5|Used this to replace the hard drive in our PS4. It works great.
5|very nice hard drive, good use, some nice backup in hands
3|It's a Good amount of memory for the price, got it on sale for 79.99, but the software Manager didn't work with my older computer, so I had to call their tech support. The lady I dealt with was very nice and helpful, but after trying a few different things on my computer, determined that it wouldn't support their backup feature. They did sent me a different manager to download that would work but was missing some of the features of the one that came with the Plus Slim. It would have also been great to have some level of security, so if lost or stolen all your information isn't readily accessible to any and everyone. The next HD I buy will definitely have that feature, but as a straight forward portable that's small but solid, the Plus Slim does the job so far.
3|had to reformat; kept corrupting files!
4|Bought many of these, fast and convenient. I also had a few die after a few weeks of use, so be cautious on duty cycle and don't use as your only backup.
5|Love it
4|Gets the job done and is really small!
3|I really dig this drive. It's very visually appealing, sleek, thin and ultra transportable and fits perfectly in the Case Login Portable EVA Hard Drive Case, which I love. However, I am constantly getting the error message that the drive was ejected improperly when I have not even touched it. I've tried the usb cable that came with this one as well as two others that shipped with my other Seagate drives. Has anyone else had this problem? It is extremely frustrating as I'll be right in the middle of an important operation and suddenly the drive disconnects itself for no apparent reason - ie. drive has not been jiggled, pulled, dropped, moved. USB cable has not been tampered with, nor MacBook moved. It's driving me nuts. Please advise if anyone else has experience this and has a resolution.
4|As described, does the job - what else can you say about a little black piece of hardware?
4|I had to reformat this to make it read/write but it makes a great addition to my computer storage. I have been working on family video and film and that takes up memory really fast. Reformat instructions are online and easy to follow.
5|I use the HHD inside to upgrade my PS4. Works great.
5|It does what its supposed to do, I like the case feel and it has a business like sleek profile easy to carry.
5|Awesome price! Works perfectly.
5|sweeet!
5|works great and it have a internal fan. i did not used much and gave it to a girl (i like) that need it .
4|As advertised, but only 4 stars because: - Requires a special non-standard USB cable. If you lose the cable, it's a problem. - No encryption or password protection. If you lose the drive, (you guessed right...) it's a problem.
4|This backup drive was a gift to our daughter for Christmas. As far as I know, it is working well for her. We have purchased Seagate drives in the past and have been pleased with them.
5|Purchased this to expand my hard drive space on my Xbox One. Worked beautifully.
5|I am now satisfied with the product. This is a quick read and write speeds.
5|Works well, very fast.
4|love it and works good but not staying on with my mac
5|Awesome hard drive and great price.. I might even buy a few more to replace my 500GB & 1TB hard drives!
4|easy to use. Hope it lasts longer than the last one
5|Great product!
5|great drive... works great in my PS4. PS4 drive also works great in the enclosure
5|Great Hard Drive
5|wouldn't do my work without it.
5|Its a fantastic product i loved and was not let down
4|Thank you
5|Great Item. Fast!
4|Purchased this purely to get at the 2TB HD inside for use in my PS4. Disassembled easily, drive works great in my PlayStation. Unfortunately, I have no idea how well the enclosure and interface work since they went into the garbage almost instantly.
5|Good.
5|Very pleased so far!
4|Is good and fast but is some hot when is working
5|Great Harddrive
5|Great product, so far so good... i use it to save movies and later watch it in a bluray.
5|Very nice. The silver matches with the Apple iMac well, just in case you were wondering :-) Nice sleek design.
5|The hard disk is very good and as expected
5|Great hard drive. Can't beat the price. Have had no problems using Seagate hard drives in the past. Really nice and compact size.
4|I originally bought this drive because I needed something that would work with both Windows and Mac. The drive works great with Windows, and thanks to its USB 3.0 the transfer speeds are blazing fast. It works well with Mac as well and the transfer speed is only slightly slower than on Windows. The one problem with using it with Mac is that it can only be written to if the Mac has the Seagate software. It can still read files if the software isn't installed and it isn't that hard or time consuming to install the software, but it still takes time that could be used for other things. Another thing I don't love about it is the connector between the drive and the computer is less commonly used than other types of wires. The drive is surprisingly thin and is about as thick as my iPhone. The front panel is made out of a brushed aluminum and the rest of the cover is plastic. The Seagate logo on mine came slightly marred and isn't as attractive as I would've liked. All in all ,this is a compact and fast drive that works reasonably well if you need to go from Windows to Mac frequently.
5|Great price: it is working on my Mac desktop as a backup drive. Make sure you plug it in directly to the computer USB port, and not on a USB extension, like your keyboard USB. It took me a while to figure this out. Reformatted it for Mac, opened Time Machine and two hours later had a complete and continuous backup 24/7.
5|Very good product and fast delivery
5|Nothing much to say. It's reliable and works great!
4|I wanted storage to backup all my music. I have a smaller WD and a smaller Toshiba so needed something in the 1TB size. This unit makes me go through to many levels before I can do the actual data save. Nothing to make me want to send it back, but I would never buy another one. The price was ok and the delivery was fine, but compared to the others I have it's a pain.
5|Love Seagate and love this drive. Be aware, this is NOT going to fit the Seagate thunderbolt adapter. This is for stand alone USB 3.0 use only. The 3.0 interface is different than what the thunderbolt adapter needs. If you're looking for something to fit a thunderbolt adapter, look for a portable hard drive with "USM" in the name. (Universal Storage Module). The thunderbolt adapter saying will work with any Backup Plus drive....but that is no longer correct.
5|so far so good: it was super easy to setup. I copied all my documents to it, and easily connected it to a laptop at our 2nd home.
5|Pluged it in...and backed up over 4,000 pictures.
5|Filling it up
5|Very nyc i just loved segate
5|Working as intended :o)
5|Keeps all of my photos off my computer hard drive and in a place I can port around. I love it.
5|4 TB........... come on,,, it doesn't get better.......
1|The Seagate support on drive is bad. The Dashboard software only supports backup of one computer and it was not a complete copy of the hard drive. They recommended I download "Disc Wizard" as a program to copy the disc. THAT PROGRAM COPIED THE CONTENTS OF THE DISC INTO ONE FILE (***.tib) that you could not open. Very annoying.
4|Bought it as a gift ..
3|It's a decently priced 1T hard drive. I got the silver color. Very classy and sleek. Lighter than my phone. However, it's not very user friendly. The reason I got it is because it's compatible with MAC. Upon first use, I assumed I could just drag and drop. NO. It said the drive is not writable. I tried to open the dashboard. Couldn't do it. I ended up spending half an hour googling how to make it work and realized that there are 2 dashboard files and I kept clicking the exe which is for PC. This may seem like a stupid mistake to people who are very computer savvy. But most people out there are like me. For Seagate to tout that the product is very easy to use, they should've made it ready to be drag and drop. I shouldn't have to work this hard to get it to work. Anyways, great product, bad instructions (actually there were no instructions).
5|Product is very good Do not regret my choice You should buy this really good
5|This is my 4th seagate hard drive purchased (the other ones I bought a few years ago are still working great). I like the newer design. Works great with Macs & pc. Don't have any issues with it over heating. Will probably buy more in the future.
5|Silent smooth operation
5|I wanted to replace the 500GB hard drive in my PS4 with a 2TB hard drive and found this to be the best way to go. The hard drive itself is available for purchase separately (without the portable case), however the price is about $10 higher. This being said, I had to pop apart the case and extract the hard drive before installing it in my PS4, but I thought it was worth the $10 savings and now I can turn the 500GB hard drive I pulled from the PS4 into a portable external drive by putting it in the Seagate case.
4|Good product, small and light, good speed in USB 3 connection. A great laptop expansion device.
5|was as expected. liked the compact size
5|Awesome external drive. Best one I ever use. Very fast. And very tough.
5|Great product. Takes no brain power to use. Buy one.
5|Bought 2 of these - one for my son, and one for myself. Seemed to install pretty easily. Very compact, great looks, very compact, and a great price from Amazon. The units have been in service for a month, and work great with the Mac Time Machine auto back-ups.
5|So far I am impressed. Plugged right in and worked on both home and office computers, one of which is notorious Vista. I bought this for the purpose of backing up the past 10 years worth of digital photos and files, and so far it is well worth the money. Transfers are fairly quick - any slowness is probably on the part of the old computer I am using!!
5|Tough, reliable and big enough to backup multiple machines (a laptop and an older desktop). Small enough to fit in my shirt pocket. Nobody makes drives better than Seagate.
5|A Christmas gift for my husband and he is thrilled with it. It does exactly what he wants it to for backing up our computers.
5|Small and easy to use. Performance is great and has enhanced my laptops capabilities.
5|Love it! Video file backup in the field. Yeah buddy!
5|light and easy to use.
5|This drive works great. the usb 3.0 speed on my Macbook pro did an initial back up of over 130 GB in about 26 minutes. I have the Seagate Firewire Desk Top Drive as well, and while this is not quite as fast, it still beats any of my USB 2.0 drives hands down, even with only a 5400 RPM speed. I went with Seagate again, because none of my Seagate drives have ever stopped or lost data. I also have a portable Seagate for my music collection hooked into an older iMac, 6 years old. All works great!.
5|works just fine
5|What can I say? smaller than the palm of your hand, 1TB of memory capacity. its as portable as it gets. Plug & Play Baby!! It comes with its lil' program (app) thing that you decide if you want installed on yo' PC, but that's just it, I don't even use it tho. Some people complain about corrupt access after a couple months, but I haven't had that issue so far. It's small, so just take care of it, I'm sure it'll last as much as everything you take care of. Make sure you don't damage it with like high impact or somthing and it'll be just fine.. Best self powered external hard drive you'll get.
5|I bought this as external storage for my Xbox One, and so far have had no issues. For the price, I don't think there are many better options out there for this purpose.
5|You just can't go wrong with this great product.
5|Great product, as described, fast shipping
5|Great product. Very nice blue color, in a very small nice looking case. Runs cool even after transferring 1 TB of info over USB3!
5|Obviously this external hard drive can be used for numerous applications but for me I solely purchased it to add storage to my Xbox One. Anyone that has an Xbox One knows how quickly the storage can go just after a had full of games and the monthly downloadable games. I suggest this drive as 2TB will most likely last the entire span of the Xbox One's life (unless you're a huge collector) to where 1TB may get filled up and then you'd have to end up buying another drive and most 3TB drives are way bigger and require a power source so that would just be one more cable and one more device to plug in and draw power. The drive has a nice enclosure, a good length cable that isn't too long nor shot, and is packaged well. The hard drive was immediately recognized as a storage device on my Windows 7 laptop so I went ahead with setting it up on my Xbox One which was easy and I had no issues with. I bought this on Black Friday so I ended up saving a decent amount of money but it's still worth the listed price for the storage size. If you're really into speed then you might be better off with a 7200RPM or even a solid state drive as this is 5400RPM but then expect to spend much more and probably not get one that's 2TB unless you have a lot of money to spend. Overall this drive works just fine for me and I'm totally satisfied with it. I did make a tutorial on how to set up the hard drive on the Xbox One in case you want to see the process before trying yourself: www (dot) youtube (dot) com/watch?v=Lh57lIw12l0
5|Really awesome. I love how slim this hard drive is.
4|WORKS GREAT
3|Serves its purpose and price was good.
5|This products has met my full expectations
4|Great last of the minute deal.
4|Good one
5|Can't believe, two terabits in such a small package. It works great, highly recommend this.
1|It is not compatible with the apple computer. It will not work and it will not let me save anything on it.
5|Just a great buy. The best for a very good price.
4|This external is really small and quite
4|I wanted a secondary drive to backup my work but didn't want something as bulking as my LaCie(considering it has all that rubber paddding). It was a good price for the amount of memory it has.
5|It works great. Just what I needed.
1|First of all, it is not clear why this is called a Seagate STDR1000102 when on the back it is clearly marked SRD00F1, which does not appear on the Seagate website. I have seen so many people on the web who have had the same problem as I; it worked initially, then within a month, the computer cannot find it, no matter what. If I unhide all devices, I can see it connect, then disconnect automatically within 30 seconds; I try to update the driver, but the most current version is already there. My last Seagate drive, for sure!
5|Exactly what I was looking for. I had gigs of photos on three different computers and one phone. Within a day of receiving this device I was able to put everything in one place. I was able to get photos off my mac laptop, my pc laptop and my pc desktop. Also, I love that I am able to download all of the photos and videos from my phone to this drive. This is done pretty quickly over WiFi.
5|Perfect!
5|I have two of these hard drives. I keep one active all the time and use the second for file storage. These work and has backup software included.
4|It is ok not wow or bad
5|Easy to use. Quality is good.
5|AWESOME!!!
5|arrived on time. very pleased
4|Fast little drive, but have noticed connectivity issues, direct windows 8 USB 3. to my motherboard works momentarily and then freezes, however added pci slot USB and front connecting computer body interface both work fine. Hopefully with a little luck, it will work well with the Macbook... as a full time traveling professional photographer.... shooting nearly 6tb a year having these work smoothly would be very helpful and necessity when traveling between work stations and keep them synced. Update: 1-17-2016 UPgrade to 4 stars Went thru a year, no issues. Works well on Mac as well, I use paragon on the Mac so I can run NTFS on both Mac and PC and works great. I found out online that Windows has a USB power controller that reduces power to USB devices....I shut that off and now it seems to have solved the issues of USB powering the dual internal drive. So far, so good. Especially like the speed of the Raid 0 inside. REally hoping for affordable 2tb msata soon tho.
5|Works well with W8 on notebook!
1|I have bought this for 25$ with my Kindle deals, because it was a good deal. I started to use it recently since I ran out of space in my computer. Since the day I am using it, moving the hard drive just a tiny bit from its location (a small touch) directly disconnects, and connects it again. If you are watching movie or copying a file, operation is cut off. I am using the original cable sent with it, and my USB ports don't have problems. I don't know whether it is the way it is, or my product is defected, but I definitely hate the situation I am in. It may still be worth $25 for backup hard drive purposes, but it is definitely not for traveling. I would definitely expect a proper product from Seagate.
5|Item arrived in 2 days in excellent packaging. Works well with my USB 2.0 and is reasonably fast. I downloaded years of pictures from my Canon digital SLR camera which have pretty large file sizes without an issue and I have barely tapped the capacity of this item. Highly recommend for the price and storage capacity as well as it's compact size
5|It is awesome, and the delivery speed is fast enough. I like it. Maybe I will by another one in the future. Thanks
4|i like it ,but ntfs is not used in Mac OS
5|works great for backing up our photos and files. very fast to download items to/from.
5|The iPod is out of the case
5|Nice little drive. I bought it to replace the HD in my PS4, and it was a breeze to do following the instructions one of the other Amazon users posted in his review here. Buying the drive in the case saved more than $40 over buying the drive alone, so I'm happy.
5|Nice Purchase
5|Just in the nick of time! Hard drive cradhed right after saving all of important data! Perfect! But this ASAP !
5|It's been working to my expectations! Though personally, I formatted it to use it as simple external hard drive, without the Seagate UI. I much prefer a simple drag-and-drop functionality but wanted the Seagate reputation.
3|Nice and compact, easy to setup and works as advertised.
4|works great Setup instruction could be better.
5|seagate is the only HD I trust... my western digital failed after 2 years without ever moving. Meanwhile my seagate free agent is still going strong 6 years after a fall down wooden stairs... can't be stopped.
5|Easy to set up.
4|Another excellent seagate product. I have purchased many and find this one to be of high quality. Very Satisfied.
5|Simple and easy to use. Performs flawlessly!
5|good.
5|I bought the 4TB version for my Xbox One and have been using it with no issues at all for a few months now. It's performing as expected, gives me much more space for my games. It's very quiet, and the performance has made a good difference, it's faster than the internal HDD on the Xbox and I notice on some games that I'm the first one to load into multiplayer lobbies.
4|Fantastic hardware. I could do without the extra software that comes built in. I spent a good deal of time trying to figure out what the software did. It wasn't clear from the beginning whether installing the software was necessary. It is not.
5|It, as advertised, met my need for a independent backup of my computer.
4|Nice
5|EXCELLENT ITEM
5|I Velcro this to the lid of my laptop for extra storage. Use daily, works fine.
5|great product and great transaction
5|Great product. Slim and reliable. Lots of storage.
5|Used one of these to replace the HDD of my PS4. Then placed the PS4 HDD back into the caddy was quick and painless :)
5|Love it. Small and very compact. Pretty fast data exchange. I use this to watch movies and TV episodes via my DVD player. Never any lag time. You might also want to purchase a little carrying case.
5|No problems
5|AWESOME - shipped quick and brand new as promised - such a handy device and super easy to use
1|Dead in just under a month of low frequency usage: I bought this BUP 2TB to use as a backup drive for my desktop. After the initial full backup and two subsequent incremental backups, the drive started throwing a hardware error (per Windows console) rendering the backup useless because Windows can no longer use it (plugging it in causes so many disk errors that the entire Windows just stall). For a drive label as "Backup", I would hope that it's a little more reliable. Less than a month on minimum usage before failing is not what I expected out of Seagate.
5|So far it works great. Most 2.5" external drives from other manufacturers still use thicker hard drives, and this Seagate is by far the smallest of all the 2TB portable hard drives. The internal hard drive is a normal 2.5" SATA drive. It can be removed to be used in a computer, laptop, or game console, but you'll void your warranty.
1|I bought this drive in late November in order to replace a 1.5TB Seagate that I suspected might fail soon (It started making pinging noises). I have a lot of static files like music, pictures and things like that which I like to have multiple backups of. After transferring the files over to this 2TB drive (about 300GB worth), I thought I was good to go and put the drive away on a shelf. Well, just the other day I plugged in this drive in order to backup some more files, and I start hearing the dreaded ping noises of a failing drive. To hear that after only two months with extremely light use, is a completely unacceptable level of reliability. Amazon is replacing it, but I think the next drive I buy will be an SSD. Although they're somewhat expensive, with no moving parts, they're far more reliable. I'm giving the drive two stars because the housing is well built and attractive, the cable is detachable, it was a fast drive when it worked, and...to be honest, the likelihood is that I just got a bad drive. But I also can't ignore the fact that I bought this drive to replace another failing Seagate drive which only saw light use. This will likely be the last time I purchase a Seagate HD, and can't recommend this one to anyone else. UPDATE 2-23-2015 Well, I should have known this was going to happen. Sure enough, the replacement replacement drive is starting to fail as well (that's 3 drives). The only thing I've done is transfer approx 300GB of my files and then it went on a shelf...Hasn't even been plugged into the computer until today when I tried to back up more data. More pinging, clicking, and more long pauses during transfers. I've had it for barely over a month. Unfortunately it's 10 days outside of Amazon's return policy, so I can't get a refund. I'll still have Seagate give me a replacement since it's under their warranty but then I'll probably sell it. Lesson learned: I will never buy a Seagate drive again, and if one comes preloaded in a computer, I will swap it out with something more dependable. They simply can't be trusted to keep data safe.
5|Great buy and performance
4|Very easy to connect and use. Set a time table to alert one to back up the computer.
5|very nice.
5|Perfect size Backup for my parents computers.
5|Product as described! Arrived on time. Thank you very much.
5|Great bargain. GREAT PRODUCT
4|solid product with good performance. this is what you would expect from seagate. Nothing fancy about it, and hope it comes with a pouch like others.
5|As advertised
5|Great device! Light, small and very well priced. Use the y-cable whenever it's in a low power port (hub, old computer, etc). Can't say enough good things, really. Very happy with this purchase.
5|Backed up my Music and Pictures to this little drive. Quickly reloaded them on my work pc. So now I have three copies along with a drive to take to on trips.
5|It was great right out of the box! Easy to use and a massive amount of storage ... plus it's the highest hard drive you can use in a PS4 without connecting externally.
5|Arrived when it was supposed to and it is what I bought.
1|Terrible - doesn't allow for mobile backup unless you use google cloud drive - which it only backup your photos and videos from the mobile device. support confirmed that it has issues backing up on wireless for mobile files. What's the point of mobile backup if you can't it up to the actual device and not a cloud service?! DON'T GET - there are better products out there.
4|Works with Mac or PC and is very small so takes no space on my desktop.
5|Great!!!
2|Drive isn't all that compatible between Mac and Windows. You end up having to decide if you want it to be Mac only (so that you can use automatic backup software like Time Machine) OR you can decide to only use it to transfer files manually. If you mistakenly click that you want to use the drive with both Mac and Windows, but then realize that you want to be able to do Time Machine backups, the Seagate software will not change the drive. Seagate's online help site is a massive jumble of unhelpful files - good luck trying to navigate or search your way to a solution there. What seemed to work is using my Mac's disk utility app to reformat the drive to HFS journaled. There are other Windows formatted drives that can be used with Time Machine for backups. Just guessing here, but maybe Seagate only got a limited license of the NTFS software, so they don't get useful crossplatform compatibility? Summary - the box says "For PC and Mac", but that is misleading. It should say that it is "For PC or Mac, or for manual ONLY file sharing between PC and Mac".
5|As described
4|Purchased nearly 2 months ago and to date, I've still not gotten it to work. I contacted Seagate support weeks ago now and to date, I've not heard a word by email nor phone call. I've combed the tech support site for previous like issues and I found at least 2 others with similar problems...and go figure, they got the same response from Seagate support...ZERO! I own 2 other large external Seagate drives and they've performed well with great ease. However, this is the first attempt to interact with their technical support. Update - Tech support responded with exact support needed to resolve my issue. Back in the game. Modified my rating to reflect normal performance and satisfaction of Seagate products! Thanks Seagate!
5|This hard drive has been working great.
5|feel a lot secure whitthis product
5|Excellent quality case, good transfer speeds, no problems with data integrity.
5|"I love it" doesn't begin to tell it all. HOWEVER, Seagate runs a little game on you with the 'on board' fix it program. Says it is free, but ... not quite.
5|I really liked this HDD Thanks works perfect
1|Glitchy as heck! Can't believe this is actually a Seagate product :-( Completely contrary to all my previous Seagate experience.
5|Great!
4|Stores data.
5|Nice quality product!
5|Bought this to use in PS4 and it works perfectly. Pulled the drive out in moments and had it installed quickly. Bit of an issue is the PS$ software. If you've already updated to 2.03 you'll need to search the web for the complete installation file not the update file.
5|Excellent product
4|In general, this external hard drive is great. The color is very nice along with the fact that is it quite small and slim. The transfer speed is not bad; roughly 80 mb/s when connected to a USB 3.0 port. However the one problem that I encountered with this hard drive was that when I installed the dashboard program that comes with the external, my computer would start to randomly crash every few hours due to memory problems. I'm not sure why this occurred but after uninstalled the dashboard program, my computer is perfectly functional again and the external works fine (I just don't have the dashboard installed anymore). That was the only problem I encountered.
5|Great hard drive. Beautiful and reliable. Easy to use. I buy again if need be
5|Nice
5|excellent equipment!
5|Great product. Fast delivery.
5|Huge Volume; Relatively cheap price; Fast data transfer speed; with 32MB buffer,very good.
5|The product is good and it's so compact...
5|Looking sophiscated. I'm satisfied to use it. This is a not long term exprience.
1|Difficult to use compared to HP SimpleSave I had been using for years. I needed more memory so after reading reviews bought this. I could never confirm it was saving what I scheduled it to save so sent it back after trying for a month. Frustrating.
5|good price.everything as expected.
5|Excellent value! I use this with my MBA for regular backups and it work great! Especially like the USB 3.0!!
5|Great deal
5|Works well as expected. No compatibility issues.
5|Very Fast
5|awesome drive. smaller and more compact than i was expecting. i have a goflex that i gave away and replaced it with this, smaller in every dimension. cord it comes with is too short though, only like 1 ft. i usually hear people say that, but usually i always see 3 ft cords being included, which would've been plenty fine for me. fast too. i was transferring ~2 gig movies at about 122 mb/s. so much faster than the other drive and even the expensive flash memory i have. i'm hoping it's reliable so i can use it as my primary backup drive as well as portable drive since there's plenty of room for my needs.
5|very good drive, fast and small
5|Was a perfect fit for my PS4. I took the 500gb HDD from the PS4, put it in this case and now I have a 500gb External Hard Drive!
3|Works ok, but it does not always mount automatically on startup.
5|great hard drive, you can just take it out and put it in your laptop
5|Nice small backup hard drive for my Mac Book Pro. Fits my laptop bag great.
5|This device works well. I just wish the connecting cord was longer.
5|is backing up but haven't had to test its capability yet to restore backed up files
5|EXCELLENT ITEM !!!!
5|Drive properly accepted imaging while connected over USB; 'shucking' was fast and easy, only requiring a flat headed screwdriver; Showed up in Windows correctly, fit easily in laptop; Seems to draw less power than the 7200 rpm 750GB drive it replaced, improving battery life. All in all, a fantastic way to get a 9.5mm 2TB drive for your laptop. Just make sure to have a boot SSD, as I would really not want to see windows startup times from this!
5|Seamless setup on the Xbox and great capacity. Love it.
5|Very compact and travel friendly. So far so good.
5|Works as advertised. Easy set-up. Used with MacBook.
4|A lot smaller then I thought, which is good for storing and packing around. So far it works.
4|Thank you!
5|Great product and portable. Comes in very handy.
5|Slim. Perfect!
5|Got this for my Xbox One, I have had no problems with it. A really good product/buy.
4|it took almost a week for delivery. Drive arrived properly packed. Its same as described online. Drive works perfectly and it suits my needs.
5|As described and on time
5|Just as described. Really easy to use.
5|Works well, easy set up.
5|Great drive, very portable and fast enough for the size/speed.
5|Buenisimo
4|Excelent value for the money.
4|yeah
5|The good choice
4|Compact size with good capacity. Read/write speed is fast under usb 3.0 port; bit slow while connected to 2.0 port
5|Excellent Product
5|High cost, good quality, compact,
5|This is a good deal for me.
5|good
5|Love it. Easy to use. Fits in my pockets, convenient to carry it around
4|Great for backup of my MacBook Air
5|I've had my drive for about a month now and I am very pleased with its performance. It has performed exactly as described. I think that it is a very good bargain for the price. I purchased it based on customer reviews and Seagate's reputation. The speed is definitely acceptable for my usage, even though I do not have a USB 3.0 port on my laptop. I'm sure the speed would be higher if I did. I was surprised at how compact the unit actually is too. Overall, I am very satisfied with my purchase and would recommend it to anyone needing extra storage capacity at a reasonable price.
5|Just what I wanted -for the right price
4|Good one but would be great if this one had come with soft encryption technology too.
5|free item love it for my computer
5|Works well with Macbook Pro '10.
5|Still working great!
4|Works great for my Xbox One.
5|A++
4|Good quality.
5|I'm loving this! Perfect for my backups with Seagates dashboard included; it continuously backs up and does everything for me:)
4|Arrived quickly. This hard-drive is smaller than expected which is good. Performance wise so far so good. I love it.
5|Very fast as a 5400rpm hard drive. Roughly 45-50MB/s on sequential files. Also, it gets automatically powered off when not used for a long time (but still recognized in the computer), and when you do any operation involving the hard drive in the computer, it gets connected automatically.
5|Speed is fast, and the writing speed is about 60M/S. My PC is USB 2.0, and I formatted it with 8192KB per unit.
5|A lot of storage for a good price that comes with the USB port it needs to be plugged into the PC
5|Light weight, very fast and durable!
5|Purchased this one to replace WD My Passport 1 TB tvat I pass it my soon. Combining very good price I got, the size of the disk and its performance, this disk is a very good one.
5|Just upgraded my PS4 with this drive. Super easy to install.
5|It's awesome.
5|Bought it to backup my computer before I replaced some stuff in it and it worked great and fast!
5|Its amazing to use, excellent one.
5|Extremely small and silent HDD.
5|I bought this external HDD to serve as a backup for my MBP and to hold other files and applications since my internal HDD is a 128 GB. I had to format it to Mac Extended Journaled since it comes formatted as NTFS, but it works great! USB 3.0 means transfer speeds are great. Would definitely buy this again.
4|Nice & quick
4|The product was received on time and it is good product.
4|Works well on PS4
4|2Tb is a great size and this works well on the usb 3.0. I like its slim lines and easy of use for a back up peripheral.
5|Excellent system!
5|Awesome, just as described.
5|Great product. It is really nice!
5|Just what I needed!
5|Price is right, and the reviews are great. Purchased it for my daughter's Mac. Delivered as expected!
5|this drive came ready to use, perfect backup for my MAC.
4|Good price.
5|Love it, great seller. Thanks
5|awsome!!!
5|Another Christmas gift requested by my granddaughter. It was exactly what she wanted, especially since she told me exactly where to buy it! LOL...
5|It works great
5|This is great for backing up my computer. Can back up the complete copmuter.
5|Works very well and also has some great software built in.
5|Good price for such a large size USB portable hard drive.
2|It's not that great. You can not use with Windows and Mac at the same time.
3|I bought it to use it both on PC and MAC but the software is not working. I had to format it for MAC only. It is okay as a classical external hard drive.
4|Great
5|Perfect
5|Works perfectly for the lap top and the desk top. Is very versatile and easy to us.
5|Its great but shipping can be cheaper
5|arrived on time and works great.
5|Used this for my ps4 and it fit perfectly....buy the red one its more cheaper too.
3|good
5|Easy to use just plug and play .
5|Exactly what I needed. Works great as a backup!
4|Great product! Amazing sleek and professional design. Sub-par price. Overall all this product is very reliable and great for my everyday tasks. Fast USB 3.0 cable provides extremely fast transfer of data between my computer and it. Extremely sleek, slim, and small design of the external hard drive makes it VERY portable and convenient to bring around. Very light weight and the look is just gorgeous. Comes with a 2-year warranty so that is also good. The reason I rated this product 4 out of 5 is simply because of price. External hard drives are getting cheaper and cheaper as the market moves towards SSDs. To be honest, this drive should be priced more around $40-$50, not $70. If the price were to come down, then this product would be 5 out of 5 and completely worth it. Other than the price-issue, it still is a great product!
5|very thin and good~!!
1|made of cheap materials. and doesn't work as was spectating. Very disappointed.
5|Great product. Works perfect!
4|Here's the non-techie, dummy skinny on Seagate Backup Plus. I received the product, connected it to my old Windows ® Vista Dell Computer, which I love and am not ready to update, and I kept getting a message to install software/driver. Stumped, I went online to the website's support page and ended up spending a lot of time online, but coming up with nothing that would help me download this darn backup on my computer...all I can say is it probably has something to do with me being a techie dummie. To test the product further, I went on my BF's Windows ® 7 computer, plugged in the Seagate--and smooth sailing! Works like a charm! Then I returned to my temperamental computer and tried to re-install Seagate. The installation worked, at least so I thought. Note, during the installation process, the "installing Seagate dashboard" did take forever. But, yippee, it looked like it was a go. After the installation was complete, I clicked on the Seagate icon on my desktop to backup my computer, and here's the message I got: "Connect a Seagate dashboard-enhanced drive to activate features." Seagate Support tech department, please help this techie dummie! (Also note, the reason I gave this product a four-star review is that I saw the product worked on my BF's computer, and my computer at this time has unresolved firewall issues.) Stacy Lytwyn, Certified Biographer, StoryCall.Us/Writing Coach/Motivational Speaker Author: CONSUMMATE CONNECTICUT: DAY TRIPS WITH PANACHE Ace Blogger: WTF: Where's the Faith, wtfwheresthefaith.wordpress.com
4|Small, sleek looking design, does what it needs to do. I was a little disappointed that this was not flash memory, but then again, its $70... I don't know what I was thinking. Definitely would recommend. Also, it works with macs and PC...don't let anyone tell you a mac needs a proprietary external drive. It gives you the option to back up to time machine.
5|Great hard drive! work as it should as my macbook time machine.
5|Bought this for my PS4 and i was verry happy with this product. i opened the case with a sharp knife since i wanted to reuse the shell i swapped the Hard drives and places my OME hard drive from the PS4 in the shell with the usb adapter and used double sided tape to reseal it.pluged it to my computer and deleated al the partitions and now i have an extra 500g external HDD.
5|Excellent drive for my PS4. I followed the basic instructions and upgraded my PS4 hard drive. I used the information given in the comments by Amazon Reviewer and https://support.us.playstation.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/5107/~/upgrade-ps4-hdd and http://us.playstation.com/support/systemupdates/ps4/new-install/#installationSteps to install my information. It took about 15 minutes. I'm loving the extra storage space. Great drive! I will be buying another one for my Xbox One (external use).
4|Go for it! Works good. The price is also very reasonable. Then why 4 star? That is because I tried with USB 2 cable instead of the one USB 3 that came with this item. The USB 2 gives the same speed of transferability as USB 3. Does not make any difference in my opinion. Thank You!
5|Fabulous and easy to use!
5|good~!!!
5|good
5|Does everything it says it's supposed to do. Very easy to use.
5|Good!
5|Plenty of space for most everyone to use as a backup device, general storage, or large file transfering. On USB 3.0 I had transferred about 100 GB worth of files in a very short time, around 30 minutes or less if I remember right. It's about the size of most cellphones nowadays.
4|Slim, beautiful form and function - highly recommend.
5|I love it.
5|Gooooood~
5|Great!
5|So far, no issues. Has been working extremely well.
5|I love it!
5|Convienant and functional product.
5|it's a Seagate what more can I say!
5|SO FAR IT WORKING
5|Very good... & reliable
5|Compact, easy to use and reliable performance.
5|Excellent
5|Looks good and works well.
5|This drive seems to be working just fine. I am using it to backup my Windows 7 PC. I am using the standard Windows backup so I can not speak to the software that Seagate delivers with the drive. I especially like that it is USB powered and does not need any external power. Speed seems to be just as good or better than the AC powered Seagate that it replaced.
5|I love this product small & easy to carry w/ my Case Logic EHDC-101 Hard Shell Case
5|Fantastic unit. The size alone was a pleasant surprise compared to my old one! I also backup my phone to this.
5|got exactly what i want
5|Perfectly slim, nicely designed. very cool, I love it!
4|it's good
5|Sleek. Feels sturdy. Works well
5|Good
5|I cannot express how excellent this product is. For transferring large (1-5 GB) files between this drive and my MacBook Pro (late 2013) via USB 3.0, this drive achieved up to around 280 MB/s peak speeds (150-200 MB/s average). I bought this for my research, but I would LOVE to buy another Backup Plus Fast for my personal use. It's that awesome. It feels pretty sturdy and held up well in my backpack on trip to a conference. NOTES: * This drive is actually two 2 TB drives connected together in a RAID-0 configuration -- the data is split between both drives and is internally recombined before sending the data to the USB port. This is why the drive is so much faster than comparable drives. That said, the drive behaves and appears as if it is a single drive (for purposes of formatting, etc.). Pure genius. * It came formatted NTFS, but I used my Mac's Disk Utility to reformat it to HFS+ (Mac OS X Extended, Journalled). It turns out I didn't actually need to reformat the drive. * The drive came with some Seagate software for Windows and Mac and a warranty document ("Seagate Dashboard Installer.dmg", "Seagate Dashboard Installer.exe", "Warrantee.pdf"). I backed this up before reformatting. * Peak file transfer speeds are reached by performing contiguous data access. Usually this is done by transferring large files rather than lots of smaller files.
5|We just loved out Seagate Backup Plus Slim External Drive. I am impressed with Dashboard Software to take Back Up.
4|works well
5|Timely delivery did everything I expected it to.
5|Love it Works great and fast use for apple
5|Good product. Fast shipping. A+
5|Very good and sleek. Works well and very portable.
5|Excellent service and product
5|Easy to set up. Small, light. If needed, it could be moved elsewhere with no problems.
5|Connected to Mac book with no problems, holds all my videos and pictures. Great external hard drive, and very slim.
3|i asume it will work like my other seahate hard drives but i have not got a chance to open and use it yet
4|Good
4|Very impressed
3|Either doesn't work with Surface 3 or had defective unit. am sending back for another but for one with a power cord.
5|Awesome for the price it comes...
4|I've kept this in my backpack since I got it. I was worried about it not working for being knocked around a bit, but it's been several months and it's worked perfectly fine. It's been an awesome tool to keep my photos, music, and design work on!
5|Gave as a gift...he loves it.
4|It's a little bulkier than the 2tb, and can require quite a bit of power but hard to beat the overall capacity of this drive qith quite decent transfer rates!
5|works great with no problems. I am very satisfied with the Seagate backup.
5|Excellent product, 3 months and no problem.
4|Works great had some issues with software down load onto computer.
5|I love this hard drive. It is just simple and easy to work. I now feel better that I have my files backed up!
5|Nice and small, works great. Didn't use any software.
5|Works very well with Xbox One. Definitely recommended.
5|This was used for my PS4. There are tons of video on youtube on how to open up the case without damaging the drive. Once I got the 2gb drive into the PS4, I took the old 500gb from the PS4 drive and used it as an external for my xbox one.
5|outstanding product.
5|As advertised.
5|I love this with my Macbook Pro Retina. I can't believe I ever edited video without it.
5|Excellent back up. Purchased for second computer. Quick and easy to use.all automatic.
5|I love it.
5|Been using for months. Extremely portable and sleek. Single USB hookup is excellent. The casing is also stylish.
5|Great device - much-needed replacement for the old WD backup external drive. Much smaller and no power cable hassle! Easy set-up through the iMac's Time Machine
5|It does its job and very slim to carry anywhere.
5|love it
5|Excellent
5|Small and reliable; I love it
5|just as i had imagined
5|small but large capacity, good transfer rate compare to my current WD passport
5|It is what it is. Small, good value, dependable, external hard drive. Works for me!
5|Bit annoying to make it dual compatible with Mac and Pc but I got it working. Runs as quick as can be through the 3.0 port and is incredibly small and light.
5|That is so great, out of my espection.
5|I love that it can be used for both the Mac and Windows without any reformatting! I have both computers and so this is a great feature. It transfers quickly and easily, basically plug and go.
5|It is a cool portable disk. I like it
5|Awesome!!
4|Great product!!
4|It works as advertised. Nice and small easy to take with you. I like it.
5|Very handy to use and it is really fast
5|Excellent device
5|Been reliable. No issues?
5|Nice and small very handy.
5|I can see why it had so many good ratings. High capacity, small, reasonably fast, lightweight, quiet, doesn't need an external power adapter. I only use it for full backups, so I only hook it up once every couple of weeks and I don't carry it around, so I have no feedback about ruggedness, but so far so good.
5|Very nice
5|Works fine.
5|bought on friend's advise after message from my computer that my iomega external drive (oldish) had bad sectors....arrived quickly. I use this drive for backups!
4|Love it perfect gaming backup hard drive.
5|Its a great backup drive. Easy to set up and use.
5|I bought this to install in my PS4. (2tb) Removing the hard drive from the Seagate case was quite easy. Installing this was very easy. Only tools needed to remove drive and install in PS4 were a small phillips and flat screwdriver. Total available storage in PS4 after install 1.77TB. (No games just OS and updates)
4|It works fine as you would expect but it was a little cumbersome to install on my Macbook Pro.
5|very good hdd, 100-105 mb/s transfer rate with my laptop
4|Excelente hard disk, Its really Slim and works perferct.
5|I love it
4|Low price. High performence
5|It fulfill my expectations.
5|Good product, prompt delivery
5|fast speed! good price!
5|Nice compact unit with a lot of storage. Easy to use even though the directions are a bit ambiguous.
5|good!!!
5|Really portable and worth buying !
5|Good
5|I actually use this a main storage drive. The first one did not stay connected consistently. Seagate tech support did a wonderful job. The performed some troubleshooting and determined that they needed to replace. Gave great options for exchange. New one works like a charm!
5|Great little drive, works well enough on USB 2.0 to move your files off your old OS. Great for backups, video storage and editing, portable music archive, etc. We've even hooked it up to an iPad (with some special cables, apps, etc.).
5|It was good
5|The Best Portable Hard Disk I ever used. I got it for a good deal on Thanks Giving Day :). Loved it :)
5|very small and fast for a 2 tb hdd
5|Very good, thanks.
5|Good product
5|Nice
5|Nice
5|amazing!
5|Perfect little drive.
5|Good
5|Nice and fast shipping
5|Arrived as promised. Easy to instal. Need's very little space. works as expected.
1|This is probably a great hard drive for windows PCs. For Mac users, especially with the Yosemite OS system, it's not much more than a giant thumb drive, very difficult to navigate, not even remotely intuitive and unusable with backing up iPhones 4S or 5C--the app did not detect the drive no matter what i did. i was very surprised, also, that the dashboard was not available for MacUsers. I feel like that should have been mentioned up front. I spent an hour looking for it, disbelieving that such a wonderful way to easily navigate the system was not available to mac users--when in fact the external hard drive advertised itself for both Mac Users and for their Mobile phones. a complete waste of my time. Just a really expensive thumb drive.
5|Very nice, quiet and slim, even smaller than my LG G2 in size.
5|So far so good. Needed to duplicate a client's data and filled almost 900GB. Copied over without any issues. Also I was able to copy from my Mac and attach to my PC (no need to format if you want cross platform capability). Bottom line is a very solid drive.
5|I purchased this hard drive as extra storage for my Xbox one. It formatted very easy and had 1.8 TB of usable space. This drive is very small and compact and will work perfect for what I need it for. I have always bought and trusted seagate drives and until they give me a reason not to, I will always buy from them.
5|Very good
5|totally happy with my purchase till now. Its very compact, portable and easy to carry in your pocket.have transferred around 500GB data till now without any problem and it happened hassle free.
5|Great drive, makes backups convenient. The biggest pain in the neck with older external drives is finding somewhere to plug in the power cord. This drive gets power from the USB connection. As a bonus there is Seagate downloadable software so PC and Mac can see the drive. Alternatively you could partition the drive, etc. I'll probably get another drive so I can put a Lightroom catalog that can be shared with my MacBook and my PC. Great drive.
5|I'm so happy with this unit. Now i can have a peace of mind that all my documents, pictures and movies are safe in case of my pc break down! Excellent price and fast delivery.
5|Love this device. It was plug and play and worked great.
5|Super Slim, and FAST. Just what I needed. Easy to format and install.
1|If you have a mac, don't buy this. The dashboard software is terrible and difficult to use and the only option I had was to automatically backup my entire computer. I couldn't backup just my photos like I had intended. The software should have some kind of manual drag and drop option for files as soon as the software is downloaded. Guess I'll be doing online backup in the future.
5|Great, easy to use product.
5|This is a nice and slim portable hard drive that works quickly and doesn't take up much room on my desk.
5|The best 2.5" 2 TB portable HDD in the market, from the dimensions, speed, aesthetic, and price points of view... bu the seagate logo on HDD must be rotated 180º
5|So light I was able to duct tape it to the back of lap top.
4|nice external hard disk with usb3.0
5|I have 2 of these now and waiting to get 2 more. On USB 3.0 I was able to do a full 4 tera to 4 tera in 7 hours.
5|Order as described and fast shipping.
5|Good external HDD. What I like the most from it is that it can be powered with any USB 2.0 or 3.0 cable, no need for separate power adapter. It is also a very fast HDD since it's configured as RAID 0.
5|The Seagate backup plus slim 2tb hard drive is very compact. It has usb 3 connection speed and lots of room for storage.
5|Does what it's supposed to do!
5|Bought this to swap out the drive in my son's ps4. Super easy taking this drive out of the case, same 2tb spinpoint M9T drive that goes for $25 more on its own. Took the 500gb drive from ps4 and put it back into casing, now that serves as a backup drive while my ps4 has 2tb.
5|works fantastic, best way by far to get a 2tb for ps4, cheaper than the standalone drive and i now use the old 500gb in the enclosure to listen to music on ps4
5|Love it! Works great
5|I have found Seagate drives last much better than those of other brands.
5|Love this Hard Drive. Thing is a beast. I dropped it almost 20+ times now and the thing works like a damn boss! (I DJ) It's quick, it reads fast, and I the transfer speed is on point. I say it does it's job pretty well! The only con I have about it, is the wire. The usb to the hard drive is extremely fragile. I broke that end in a heartbeat. God forbid you accidentally bend that end because then it's game ovaaa. You might as well order a separate more reliable usb when you buy this product or any of them for that matter because the factory usb is crap.
3|The size of this is very compact and it is also very light. Those are two positive things about it. A third positive thing is that the cable isn't proprietary but readily available. Initially, because I'd never seen a cable quite like this, I presumed it was propietary. Seagates response below combined with 30 seconds of investigation showed that it is a non-proprietary cable that is readily availalble from Amazon and other retailers. The Seagate backup software that is included is great if you know nothing about computers, store your data where Microsoft tells you to, and you only want to back up that data. If you want to do a system backup or if you store your data in a custom location, then this software is of zero value. That's a big negative. Fortunately, you can find some freeware that will allow you to do a system backup or an otherwise custom backup. Seagate is leaning very forward with this drive to sell you for additional $$$ a more useful backup program. Would you be smart to trust them when they include a crapware program with the drive? Know you wouldn't be smart to trust them by giving them more money. If you buy this drive, look elsewhere for an effective backup program.
5|Very good
4|good, expensive!
4|Small size with fast backup with USB 3.0
5|Great product!!
3|Although it is a little bit big but it is useful
5|Great
1|Setup is an unacceptably convoluted nightmare. First offense is that you have to use an app through the app store, even if you plan on using a computer with the device. The only problem is that the app does not detect the wi-fi signal from the device. If you go online and look for support from the Seagate website there is a simple page that shows you how to reset the device, wait for the blue light to indicate that it is transmitting signal, and then connect to it as a network and start your app, but the app still does not detect it. There are no more steps to tell you what to do at this point even though its still not working. Pathetic.
4|Good
5|Great hard drive.
5|Looks sharp, works great! A solid option from Seagate!
5|I've got 4 of these now, and haven't had an issue with any of them. I use 2 as my main's, and turn the other 2 on once a month for back-ups.
1|Bought two on Dec 4, 2014. Both failed within weeks. Only used to back up less than 100GB of data to start and incremental file changes over the time I owned them. Fortunately I was able to do a Windows Format and Active@ KillDisk kill of data and wipe of "empty" space (probably with gaps unfortunately) and return them for a refund. Hopefully that's good enough for my data security needs. I switched to Western Digital WD Elements 2 TB. So far so good.
5|I like it. thank you for sale
5|Very good one, I use it for back up my computer and photos, still learn how to down load the photos from cell phone to it without cables.
4|It would be better if a case even basic included
5|I received Seagate safely. and I satisfied with the quality of the product. I would like to buy more.
4| Hey guys! Just to keep it simple,and sweet, I made a Pros,and Cons sections, but check out the video in HD on youtube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCvtkJ9k1Rg Seagate Backup Slim: Pros: *Slim Design *Very Portable Device *Fast, and Efficient copy speed of 120MB/s (This is really fast) Cons: *Needs to change its installation setup to english *Gloss finish on the side is a fingerprint magnet The Seagate backup plus 2tb drive is a very SLIM, and THIN device. Overall you should definitely check this out because its the slimmest 2TB drive on the market (as of 2014).
5|I love this drive. very good seller fast delivery thanks
1|I never got this drive to work, so I returned it.
5|Took this apart to reveal a standard 9.5mm SATA Hard drive by Samsung M9T ST2000LM003 rated at 5V, .85A, 32MB Cache, and 5400RPMs. This is the cheapest way to obtain this drive and when removed it fits perfectly into a laptop. I now have 2.25TB in my Dell 6440. Would highly recommend. P.S. You will probably break the case when removing the hard drive (I didn't but I am used to these things) but the SATA to USB3.0 dongle will still work when plugged into any other 2.5" drive.
5|It's amazing how slim this hard drive is and the design it's awesome, I love it
2|seagate dashboard is super slow in windows 7, takes 30 minutes to back-up. my old seagate completed the back-up in less than a minute. the drive itself does not have password protection. will not recommend this product.
5|Very good
5|The hard drive is fast. Users can also download NTFS driver for the hard drive from Seagate. With the Seagate NTFS driver installed on the Mac, users can move large video files (> 2G bytes each) between Windows and Mac. The hard drive exceeds my expectation.
5|Great product. Best thing is you don't need a separate power source. It connects through USB.
5|perfect
5|I can't believe how little this 1TB powerhouse is--smaller than my mobile phone! The Seagate Dashboard makes backup easy, even for facebook and without having to jump through their "identity verification" hoops. Very affordable, but no way to password protect.
5|Luv it, opened it up got the hdd I needed to put into my PS4.
5|Great product. Very sleek.
5|Can't believe you get this much storage for this price!
5|Very good, like design
5|I love this hard drive. I was a bit concerned when ordering it as I didnt want anything extremely bulky. This product however is about the size of your hand and about a inch thick. It came with two power USB adaptors, just in case one does not draw enough power, the other will work perfectly. It has 4 TB of space which is great as I do alot of recording from Itunes movies and music. There is no external software that has to be installed, so that is a definite plus. It is extremely portable making it one of the best investments I have made.
5|Good purchase
5|Installed this in my PS4. Took no time at all very simple. Just need something very thin like a very small flat head screwdriver or knife to pry the external case open. The enclosure scratches very easily at the seam... Just a heads up. Once it was out I unplugged the adapter and popped it in the ps4 and had it running in no time. Farcry 4 load times were noticeably faster!
5|Light, small, fast and efficient.
5|thanks for good and nice product
2|Brought this for my Xbox One. Requirements to use a hard drive for the xbox one are simple: 3.0 USB. And at least 250GBs+. It does not fit the requirements for my xbox One. So that would mean that it isn't 3.0. Cause I plugged another hard drive in and it worked just fine. I also took into account that it could be the hard drive that is defective. But it works fine on my pc.
5|Very slim and easy to carry. Value for money. Do not hesitate to buy
4|Easy to use and like that it is portable. My dislike is the software that is loaded, to do a full backup, missed the 2nd and 3rd core.
3|Good. Delivered before the expected time
5|This is easy for a person who isn't computer savy to save all of her documents on. Love this thing. Bought myself a sturdy case to protect it. Carry this thing everywhere.
5|The best had external hard drive I have ever had.
5|Easy to use, compact size & good Price.
5|Great
5|ok
4|This drive was an excellent price for how much storage it has, and the social media backup works like a charm! The only issue I've had is the mobile backup.. for some reason it "fails" or stops backing up when my iPhone screen turns off. Surely there must be a way that you can mobile backup in the background on your mobile phone?
5|I bought the 4TB version, and I was blown away. This will more than likely outrun the drive in your pc. The secret ingredient is actually 2 internal HDD's, set up in RAID 0, so every read/write is split between the drives and run simultaneously. Couple that with USB 3.0, and you have the fastest 4TB drive under $200 EVER. It comes with 2 USB cords: a standard USB 3.0, and a USB 3.0 Y cable just in case your pc doesn't have quite enough juice for this beefy drive. No AC adapter necessary! (Which is impressive, considering the dual HDDs)
5|Looks great and works well
5|Excellent drive. Lots of space for my purposes. The main thing is its quiet and very portable. The USB3 interface is quite fast. No external power is needed. I've had another smaller "slim drive" for over a year with no problems whatsoever.
5|Plastic shipping great product
4|This 4 terabyte drive actually shows as 3.63 terabytes when you use it. That's just the way of the difference between base 10 and base 2 and nothing to worry about. Allow me to tell a grandpa story here. This puts 4 TB in my hand. This thing is about 1/6 the size of my first 30 megabyte hard drive for an IBM XT. 6 times smaller and orders of magnitude more storage. The drive nicely comes with two cables, one cable is a straight 1 USB to 1 USB for USB 3 ports that deliver enough power. A second cable provides 2 USB connectors for your computer to 1 USB on the drive in case your computer isn't delivering enough power, the second connector to allow it to draw enough power. Having a 5 year old desktop I was a little worried about both USB 3.0 and power requirements but I plugged it into the USB port on the front of the desktop, one port only, and it was recognized immediately and I was able to install the provided software with no issue. As well I tried it on two new laptops, both immediately recognized the drive using the single connector option. So this drive should be good to go on virtually any recently manufactured machine though non-powered USB hubs may present a problem with power. As a USB drive it isn't blazingly fast but the speed is acceptable. The backup software actually resides in memory and updates your backup as files are changed so once the first big backup of your machine is done further backups are invisible and unnoticed if that is how you have allowed the back up software to work. Myself, I like my backup software to provide me with password protected encrypted backups which this doesn't seem to do. That is really my only complaint about the drive. If you want a big amount of portable storage this will do the trick for you! 4 TB in the palm of your hand!!
5|Great buy, love it. Easy set up, exactly what I wanted at great price. MAC compatible
5|Works great. My old external drive isn't able to transfer my data from my macbook to my PC, but this one does. In addition it looks cool and is super portable.
5|Great product!
4|As expected. Nice
5|I bought the silver one and it looks amazing! It's slime and light with cool texture on that shiny silver material (I don't know what material it is). The speed average is about 90Mb for me, I downloaded a 58Gb folder that contains movies in just about 15 minutes! Of course this just for now, I just received it today so I have to update my review after using it for a couple of weeks.
5|Worked great with the Tablo. I will buy another soon.
5|Simply put, Seagate rules AGAIN! I've always used Seagate when using HDD's. I would never consider any other brand. I have had numerous hard drives (mostly Seagate) and they NEVER went down on me once! The backup Plus is eventually going to replace all of my 3.5" drives as they are so much easier to carry around.
5|Product is as described , Now brands has been a favorite for years and I am never disappointed. Seller shipped quickly and product arrived in good condition
5|very useful and slim. i very like it.
1|I bought this about 6 months ago, and its already broken. I lost months of work. piece of junk! Connection on bottom is extremely fragile, and one day just stopped working.
5|very easy to use and it arrived very quickly
5|Used it with my Oppo 103. It holds most of my music collection, and have lots more room still. It's reliable and fast for what I need it.
5|functionable
4|So far, so good. I'll repost after we've used it for a while longer.
5|Bought this to use as a PS4 drive and it works great! This is less expensive than buying the drive by itself for whatever reason! All you have to do is get a flat-head screw driver and wedge it between the gaps of a corner and pry the shell apart. Next peel off the silver foil around all the sides and pull off the USB adapter covering the sata port. Enjoy your cheap 2TB drive!! Google "Upgrade PS4 HDD" and follow the instructions to backup your saved game data and install your new hard drive. Cheers!
5|Quick and silent, very beautiful
4|Well, 200 yuan cheaper than domestic, I do not know will not affect the warranty.
5|Fast and sleek
5|So far, so good. I use it mainly as a secondary backup for photos and such, and I'm happy with it. Speeds were good and build quality is far better than the WD drive I had purchased a couple years prior. It's also very slim/compact as you'd expect, so that's nice too.
2|This is the second of these drives I have bought. First a 1.5 TB which has no problems. This one "disconnects" whenever I close the screen on my laptop. Sometimes 6-7 times while closed. Otherwise, no problems. But having to physically disconnect and reconnect each time I open my laptop is not acceptable.
5|I wanted to find a large sized (>2TB) drive that was portable and did not require external power, and actually there aren't that many options available! I bought this drive after seeing the raving recommendations on Amazon. So far the drive has been working fabulously and is very light & portable given that it's 4TB in size. Highly recommended (plus it's on sale right now!).
5|Very easy to set up. And very portable, too!
1|UPS Employee stole my External, Hopefully they'll give it 5 stars
5|Great
5|Perfect fit for the job I have in mind. Well packed and ready to go.
1|Died in just over a year. Plus, wouldn't stay plugged into the drive so when it did 'work,' it was constantly coming undone from the disk and killing any backup progress I'd made. Bottom line, save your money and stay away from these worthless pieces of garbage. Everything seems great at first, but give it time. It will die. Never giving these guys another dime.
5|Very light
5|This is an awesome backup for my computer. I can go into it and get any file I need instead of doing a complete restore of them. It has not failed me yet. At one point I couldn't get my computer to go past the boot up process so I plugged the Seagate Backup Plus in and the computer went past the boot so I could fix it. A life saver for me.
2|It says 4TB but is actually---> 3.68 not full 4TB most external drives are this way BUT they usually would on the lines of 3.8 or 3.9 this is low compare to the actual 4 that I couldn't over look it. HOW EMBARRASSING! When you're spending you either expect 4TB! I mean you're talking hundreds of GB less. If you were to google TB to GB it is 1TB is 1,000 GB BUT 1 TB is actually 1.024GB if you research further. SO MY 4TB should be 4,096 GB NOT--> 3,680 ! WHERE IS MY 416GB? If we were to estimate which seems a cheap way of saying I'm scamming you...then it should be 4,000! so IF we're ESTIMATING then I'm still missing 320GB AND THAT'S A LOT!!! Am I really complaining about nothing? I really don't believe so!
1|Sent a faulty product. Have to return
5|Great drive. No issues so far. Would buy again!
5|This thing is so slim for 2TB, almost unbelievable. Great for backups.
5|Great size and easily meets my expectations!
5|Fits inside your laptop! This is a great buy! It's only $99 and if you use it externally it works great. Or you can do what I did and open the casing and take out the 2.5" standard SATA 3 drive inside and place it inside your laptop. It works great (it's a standard 9.5mm drive) and is a cheap way to get a 2TB 2.5"! Right now the comparable cost of a 2.5" 2TB is $120, with this however you get the hard drive AND you can reuse the case with your existing 2.5" hard drives and turn them into an external drive. It's a win-win situation. Before putting it inside I was getting 105 mb/s write speed and 108 mb/s read speed, after putting it inside I get 110 mb/s write and 120 mb/s read (slight improvement but not much). Either way this is faster than most of the older drives you probably have. To find out how to open it (it's very easy) read this: https://dustin.li/2014/04/seagate-2tb-drive-disassembly/
5|Much smaller than expected! Would fit in a back pocket. Bought as a gift, but I have the non slim version and love the ease of it. Plus it's mac, pc and mobile capable.
5|Fast. Works. Loaded 1 TB of data at one time--on for 24 hours straight and didn't heat up too bad. Warm to the touch. Not too bad
3|Works great for backing up my Mac but have not been able to backup my smart phone. I downloaded the required app to my phone and my computer and phone connect via the bluetooth but it just won't work. Will have to follow up with support and if I can back up my phone, I'll increase the number of stars. Luckily my phone can be backed to the cloud using the security software I bought and through software on my computer I downloaded from the phone's manufacturer.
5|Small, sleek and fast. Bought several.
5|This works great with my Mac Mini, easiest setup I have ever completed
3|This 2 TB backup drive seems well constructed and engineered, as well as incredibly compact. Unfortunately, it is far from obvious how one gets it to work with Apple products such as my new iMacs. The small instruction pamphlet is not particularly clear. The Seagate Dashboard, one eventually learns, doesn't work with OS and, while one has to use Apple's Time Machine, getting that to work requires some work to set up. The Seagate tech service fellow who helped me was very good and took substantial time. He said he and his colleagues have been after Seagate's product designers to produce a more Apple-friendly product. Anyway, after getting his assistance, the drives seem to be working o.k., though a useless Seagate Dashboard window keeps popping up.
5|Very great deal :)
5|awesome
5|GOOD SLIM FAST
3|Love the size and portability. Would have rated it higher if I was consistently able to get my iPad and iPhone to wirelessly backup. First time, it worked like a champ, but subsequent attempts were fraught with error messages. One of these days, I will contact Tech Support to find out if it's me or them.
5|Simple to use and great product.
5|Awesome drive. It's fast and lightweight.
5|i really love it, it is slim, and the writing/reading speed is very high, really love it.
4|Easy to use and lock. Compact. It meet my purpose.
4|This is an excellent storage saving tool especially for people wishing to keep all their media in one place. I really love it. The only issue is that I was not able to backup my phone content with Seagle backup app, that is the reason why I have kept 1 star with me. If the issue is solved, I will update and give it 5 starts.
5|Exactly the same product the DVR manufacturer was offering on their website at a great savings.
5|FAST, SLIM, AND SMALL EXTERNAL HARDDRIVE
5|very good quality and slim. a little expensive.
3|Having issues installing it....will write another review when I get help from a family member who is "Geekier" than I am!
1|I needed portable backup and I needed a quick way to know which backup was for work and which backup was not related to work. So I purchased a Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 in Blue and another Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 in Red. Both were a waste of money - slow writing speed, incomplete backups and total inability to make a disc image backup. SO, I rechecked for firmware updates (none) and software updates (none). I RTF manual which is mere couple of pages. I was able to do backups from 2 different computers running Windows 7 Pro SP1 fully updated to 5 different Samsung SSDs, 1 Crucial SSD, 4 Samsung HD103UJ hard drives, 4 WD Raptor hard drives, 5 WD Red NAS hard drives and I even tried a Seagate Barracuda 7200.11 hard drive. But I was still unable to make a backup to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 hard drives. I even took a computer off the network and removed the security software to see if that was the source of the failures to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 in Blue and another Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 in Red. I tried to copy 80GB of iTunes using TeraCopy to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 hard drives - hot failures. Using Windows 7 Pro backup to the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 hard drives - failure. What does work? The Thecus NAS, the old HP MediaSmart Server, Patriot Supersonic Rage 64GB USB 3.0 flash-drives, and the PNY 128GB USB 3.0 flash-drives. I also was able to use each SSD and hard drive for backup in the Sentey hard drive docking station which uses USB 3.0. For laughs I used TouchCopy 12 to copy 70GB to an old iPOD.
5|purchased as gift for my son - he flipped
5|This hard drive is tiny from a physical size perspective. It easily fits inside of one's hands. The large storage capacity, USB 3.0 speed and being bus-powered (no powered adapter required) makes it perfect for travel! You can find my exhaustive review here http://goo.gl/c2Igky . I use this hard drive in conjunction with a MacBook Air to store Final Cut Pro X videos and photos while on the road. It will work with Windows computers too. Don't let the "backup" verbiage fool you. This hard drive can be formatted and used just like a "normal" hard drive. I formatted mine within Mac OS X Disk Utility using Mac OS X Journaled file system. It works great!
2|I am quite disappointed that the drives are going bad already, I am having to try and recover data from the device only 6 months after receiving the device.
5|thanks
1|Dismounts and Mounts once a minute. Latest Windows 8.1 Updates installed.
5|Solid design and great performance. Have bought silver, red, blue from this model, only except black one, which should be my next target.
5|Love this drive; the Seagate software works well with my three (3) HP computers; 2 have AMD processors and the other an Intel i7; all have Windows 7 64 bit operating systems. This Seagate drive works flawlessly with the Microsoft Windows Backup System plus with the Seagate auto Backup Software.
2|I just received this product, it looks great and has a practical dashboard. the main reason for my purchase was the ability to transfer data via Wi-Fi however, this is not the case in my situation. I've connected my PC & iPhone to 3 different networks but still get error message of "backup failed". I don't like challenges with products and want seamless operating processes. There are a number of forum members on the Seagate site battling with the same challenges, so be sure that you know what you getting yourself into. Developer should have ensured bugs were fixed before putting product to market.
5|An awesome product at the price with negligible weight of the product. Loved it.
5|Quick delivery. Easy to connect. Very slim and light weight. Love the Amazon protective zipper case. Both drives I bought worked seemlessly in Win 7 Pro & Home Editions. I hope they last as well as all my other Seagate products.
5|You cannot find a better, faster external hard drive. The main thing to remember is that it needs to connect USB 3.0 and not the older 2.0 or you are defeating the purpose of the “fast backup.” Backed-up 15GB in just under 2 minutes and averaged almost 100MB/s on all back-up tests performed on HP Envy running Windows 8. Product comes with two sets of cords. Standard cord for 3.0 USB storage and a “double” cord (two USB plugs on one end and the one that goes into the backup). The reason for this is in case your computer is older and does not have a 3.0 USB you won’t have enough USB power to backup. The product itself does not need to be plugged into an AC outlet and draws its power from the USB port. The Seagate has a metal case, is very light-weight, and is substantially faster than the Seagate I bought only a few years ago. 4 TB is a lot of storage space. Since I do not have to “lug-around” a power cord, I can easily take my music and videos with me anywhere I go. 5 solid stars! Great product and every bit of the advertisement….
4|It's sleek and hasn't crashed yet so I like it.
5|This review is for the Seagate 4.0TB hard drive. The hard drive fits in your hand, but packs enough space to back up your largest hard drives. It is smaller and lighter than the Seagate 2.0TB hard drive. The hard drive comes with the Seagate Dashboard which is a useful, if simple utility and makes backing up your data simple. The Dashboard also comes with several interesting utilities, such as the ability to upload to Facebook or Flickr, as well as download your libraries directly to your hard drive. It will back up your mobile devices, and back up to the cloud as well. Among all of those tools, the back up and restore feature is simple to use, but does not offer automatic (scheduled) backups. Pros USB 2.0, and 3.0 compatible. Comes with the cables to work on your old, or new computers. If your computer has a 3.0 the backup will be much faster but it's backwardly compatible with USB 2.0. Good size. Small enough to slip into a pocket and fits easily into your laptop bag. Cons Included software has lots of tools, but no scheduled backups.
5|Great product!
1|Does NOT work with MAC. Requires a third party software download which then wants you to select 'use as startup' for this drive. Avoid this product if you have a Mac, even though the packaging clearly states that it works with both Mac and PC.
4|ok
5|Unbelievable. I used different external hard drives, this is by far the best. It is so easy to use, small. Fantastic product. I am very happy with the product and highly recommend it.
5|Just as described
1|Returned for credit. Problems with software working and having drive back up automatically as described. Big disappointment.
5|Works fine. You have to program it for a Mac computer through the Disk Utility app on computer. Took a few minutes to figure it out.
4|good product if you want small and portable, a little expensive
4|perfect - couldn't be better
5|It is a nice Hard drive, especially I have a silver one, and it turns a fancy looking. I love this slim portable hard-drive a lot.
2|Nice idea but the drive is now unresponsive after just a little over 7 months. Amazon will not take a return. A backup drive is supposed to be more reliable than the disk it is backing up - but not in this case.
5|great
5|very good product
5|EASY to install!!
1|This device doesn't take backup. It says backup job failed. I tried many times. I installed and uninstalled.I am sharing the screen print of error.This device is of now use to me or has some issues. Please do the needful
5|Purchased this on sale through amazon, it was perfect for what I needed. Once I received it, I opened it up and put the hard drive into my new PS4 and everything went flawlessly.
5|perfect
5|I love this product.
5|It really seems to operate much quicker enabling you to make back ups. I like to store all of my graphics and video clips on a scratch as opposed to my hard drive. This really helps to speed up the search and recovery.
5|GOOD
5|Compact, light, easy carry.
1|Don't buy this Crap cause the Warranty Dept. won't back their products. They throw more red tape in front of you than you can cut through. They will ask you question after question till they find a reason not to replace your defective drive. I have a drive that was only 18 months old and they rejected me, told me my Serial # wasn't from one of their drives, emailed them a picture and they still wouldn't help me. Stay far Far away from Seagate Hard Drives.
5|This HD is very stylish but having 2TB capacity. Also works well both with PC and Mac. It was great buy. I love it.
4|great price lots of storage
5|good
5|Ver y good !!
5|good item
5|I bought this at Costco so this isn't an amazon verified review. But I logged on because it is worth mentioning what a good drive this is just in case anyone is thinking about buying one. I cannot make any claims about the software included on it because I immediately formatted the drive in FAT32 on a mac and filled it up to full capacity with mp4 files. But this thing writes very fast and it reads equally fast. I don't buy many drives because I use a Drobo raid array stacked full of internal drives. But I'm backing up some files for a friend and this is a good portable drive. So if you need more capacity than flash drives currently offer (my largest at this time is 64gb) I would recommend this one over any of the others I've tries so far. But it is a conventtional hard drive, so I transport these things in a small priority mail flat rate box stuffed full of plastic shopping bags and the original plastic packaging. I'm paranoid that way.
5|Portable and nice design. Build quality is top with aluminum finish. Good transfer speed!!!
5|Works great for Xbox One. Can't see needing an upgrade for years to come.
5|Priceless insurance and peace of mind. super easy to use.
5|This is really great, I used this to store all my stuff as backup in this in case something were to happen to my laptop or computer were to lose my files or crash.
5|Really slim and perfect for carrying anywhere you need. Excellent external hard disk. great buy. It met all my expectations!!!
4|Nice.
5|i love the color, it matches my macbook pro and it is so sleek
5|Good Buy
5|Highly recommend!
5|WOW things get small with time rolling buy. Great deal, great product. I'm Very Hippy.
5|so SLIM!!!!
3|Short life!
4|fast cheap
5|Love it.
5|Great deal,great delivery!!!
4|Auto doesn't always work (but as expected to be honest). Otherwise works how you need it though
5|A very fast performing external drive on storing my photo library, a big job on such small unit, (love it)
5|It plug and play device. I don't have to do anything.
5|Beautiful Design. Really Compact in size. I like it.
5|This was a great deal thanks amazon for this I have waited a year before buying an external hard drive but this past black friday I finally got it 2TB you can back up your mobile devices and the computer if you wish it is small do not use a power connector application is user friendly you can choose whether to install it or not it is amazing
5|I tried Seagate external hard drive before and it work quite well. And I need more storage to collect all my stuff. When this came out and discount during the black Friday, I couldn't resist and it work great. So far so good. The drive doesn't overheat when I copy the data and seems to work well. It smaller than one previous one I use. There also a light to indicate drive activity (as always for Seagate external HD). The only down side is not case come with it and you may want to purchase one.
5|This is cool. Plug it in and it will install the necessary software so you can do full or incremental backups. At 1 terabyte it will take me a long time to fill it up with my pix and/or documents.
5|neat, light, compact, speed is fast
4|Petite and easy to install, works great. My only qualm: the cord is less than a foot long so placing it on a surface is not possible,. Mine is just dangling in the back of my desktop PC tower.
5|really good?
5|works great, and the transfer is quick
5|Buy this before you consider spending extra cash on one set up specifically for a Mac. I have a mac and it works. It's like magic. But really, most hard drives can be configured to your system so don't fall for that whole 'Mac Ready' deal. Unless you're lazy or don't have 3 seconds to reconfigure your hard drive, then it's a good idea. This little baby holds it all! Love it. Why I didn't have a portable hard drive before is beyond me. I use a desktop version normally but decided to become modern. It worked. I'm modern now. And it's red! Because that's what really matters after all.
5|Great value with USB3 speeds, this drive functions at 'internal' drive speeds. Quiet and fast with 2TB of storage in roughly the size of a deck of cards.
1|I will not be buying another Seagate drive. I owned one for three years and only occasionally (less than 20 times) plugged it in to do a backup. Recently went to do a backup and got the click, click, click of a mechanical failure.
5|The price is very good, and it is so thin and beautiful!
4|Great product. Big memory space.
4|worked like a charm. no issues
5|Works great & looks good! It's a hard drive and hasn't failed in the first few weeks of usage. What else can you say?
5|The seller was very receptive and responsive upon my inquiries; I highly recommend communicating and reaching out if there are any concerns.
5|I use this between my PC and MAC and it has been a lifesaver! Great cost for a great product as well!! Thank you Seagate!
5|Used this drive to upgrade a Mac mini 2012 from a 1TB Fusion to 2TB Fusion array. Worked like a charm - case opened easy enough. I don't know how people are bending the metal case topper - just don't jerk on it. Enclosure will be used with the old 1TB drive for a Time Machine disk for my wife - she likes red and only needs 1 TB.
5|Have had no problems, works exactly as intended. I'll update if something changes.
5|Using it on my xbox one! I would recommend this to anyone needing more space for gaming.
5|Nice hard drive.
1|Backed up everything on this drive and it failed the first time i needed it to replace lost files! I've had the drive approx 1 year and Seagate is now requiring me to pay $500 to recover the files. Very disappointed in this product and the company.
5|Love it. Slim fast and reliable.
5|This is a gift for my son. I have one and I bought one last Christmas for my daughter. So useful for those of us who dont trust the cloud for storage.
5|Good.
5|No Discount, but it is worthable for wat I paid!
5|Very slim! And 2TB...and Fast, love it and the price is right
5|Very pleased with the purchase! Easy to setup, quickly did several backups of my laptop as practice, setup a schedule for a monthly backup as a reminder, and even backed up my iPhone. Easy to use backup software and the drive is fast. Even the cable length was good...No complaints from me!
5|Excellent product. Easily set up and used. Excellent choice.
5|Excellent drive. Working great. Small and light weight. Fits right in your pocket.
5|Great 2tb replacement drive i put in my ps4 and it works great.
5|Excellent ! The item is smaller and thinner than I imagined. It looks like very cute.
5|Easy to use - my second one
5|Super convenient. Love it. SO much space!
5|What a beautiful portable external drive. I love how slim it is. When I started using at work my friends were like: wow, very nice. I would recommend it.
5|Omg great drive!
5|It does what it's supposed to do and is easy to install.
5|great drive, I use it to transfer pictures and miscellaneous file from one place to another when needed. will update if anything changes.
5|Works great for me.
5|Works great, hooked right up to my iMac (os10.10), had trouble with others, as you may know compatibility issues.
5|I love it
5|Tiny, well constructed, easy to use. Who could ask for more.
5|Sleek HD ... So far so good .... Good service by Amazon - They replaced my previous order as it was not working. The new one works jus fine ...
5|Just think of it as a 1TB pocket sized flash drive.The setup is quick and easy and data transfer time is fast. I use it to backup my three computers and transfer files between them since I don't have a home network. This little drive works just as well as the cloud to keep your files handyand trust me its a lot safer.
5|perfect
5|Awesome portable drive picked up as part of Black Friday deals. I also have a Toshiba Canvio portable 2TB drive and this is half as slim - Two of these drives stacked is about the size of the canvio. This has a metal case, the canvio is hard plastic.
5|Works great, the WiFi backup option is slow but works, it's a lot more convenient than dragging out my cables to backup my pictures and videos
5|work`s just fine
1|Several decades ago Seagate (from Scotts Valley, Calif.) produced good disk drive products that sold well. The products sold well because they were useful and operated better than Seagate's competitors. At some point, in time, the hard drives were called "Winchesters". As the years went by, the Seagate products became inferior in the marketplace. Just now, based on several reviews on Amazon, it became apparent that the Samsung parts are failing. Seagate needs to get its act together and cut the PR bulls***. STOP shipping these Samsung based drives. I was contemplating on trying out the Seagate Slim 2TB drive, but the negative reports turned me off. I have been using a Buffalo 0.5 TB for over a year. Good drive. I'll probably stay with Buffalo, for the 2TB version. Alternatively, I should be able to find something else. It is NOT okay for a company to assume that customers, like me, will put with an "acceptable" failure rate on backup drives.
5|WORKS GREAT
1|I was in need an of external hard drive to store my movies, music, and important document so I could free up space on my computer's hard drive. This external drive seemed to be highly rated and was a good price. It worked great for a few months and began to fail. I began to notice that files were disappearing from the hard drive. I tried many data recovery programs with no success. I tired the Seagate Data recovery, and after running for 11 hours, I got a message telling me that it was finding too many errors and that I needed to back up the disk and reformat. I am in the process of trying to back up this hard drive and am finding that a lot of the files that are still on the disk are corrupted. As a result I am not able to back them up and essentially lost over 800 GB worth of files. In hours of googling I finally learned that Seagate hard drives have a very high failure rate and not really recommended. I advise anyone looking to purchase this hard drive to think twice and only buy it if you are okay with wasting many hours copying items to the disk to have to try to move everything off again. I will never consider Seagate again.
5|Really Fast on usb 3.0 and at the moment no problems !! Only i dont find where i can change the Raid config !!
5|Drive is reasonably light and thin. Thickness is like two 4th generation Ipod Touches stack one on top of another. It works well with my Microsoft Surface Pro 2 and takes about 13-15 mins to transfer 90 GB of data at 125 MB/s.
5|This item is amazing and works flawlessly!
4|Love it, I had tons of pics and fam recording that was making slow down my computer. The set up was easy and I'm happy with the results . Many thanks!
5|Fantastic !
5|It's great and it works perfectly.
5|goood!!!!
4|The back and side cover is black plastic. I feel a little cheated since the picture made it looks full metal. Performance wise really can't complain. Works on both Mac and Windows.
5|Quick sync and easily portable.
5|This drive was $20 cheaper than the Seagate drive touted as being the PS4 compatible 2 TB drive... It's the same drive inside. I tore mine open the second I got it and installed the drive INSIDE it into my PS4. Been working flawlessly inside my PS4 ever since! I got a nice compact SATA - USB 3 bridge board out of the deal too! Might use that for something int he future.
5|TOP Drive +++
5|I am not too concern about the total memory storage of my MAC PRO anymore.
5|Work as expected.
4|Great external hdd its compact and fast with such a large capacity. Only downside is that it requires more power than my laptop can supply through one USB so I have to use up two of my three usb ports when accessing the harddrive
5|Excellent, good job Amazon, thanks.
5|Great price, great drive! Slim!
5|Excellent design and hard-protected. Capacity is great for massive storage!
5|Compact, simple, easy to use and reliable. Works with Mac or PC. Highly recommended.
5|Nice deal!
3|Seems to fail to backup files often
5|Very nice hard drive, slim is correct, and it works smoothly.
1|I got this 2TB from March 31, 2014. Now, December 4, 2014, the drive is not working. I can't access to my data inside the drive (plug the drive to my computer, nothing pops up); I tried to call Seagate for help, but Seagate can't do anything about it. Technical support told me that If I need to get my data back, I need to pay about $450 to the recovery team to get my data back. I really don't have any choice now. because I cannot loose all my 2 years old daughter's videos and pictures inside the drive. (I used to keep them in both my laptop and the drive, but I needed to format my laptop, so I only had one source left to keep my data). I will never buy Seagate again in my life.
5|Sleek, hooked up easily.
3|i love the look, the small size, the usb 3.0 speeds, but i with my macbook pro i can only open what is already on the drive. I cant delete or import any files within the drive. i think i just have to format it or something. that is the only drawback. any suggestions are much appreciated.
5|Big fan of Seagate, looks really nice and functions like a dream
4|Good one
5|I'm really satisfied with that portable HD, very pleased with seller
5|Slick, sexy, fast and portable External HDD.
4|Easy to use and easy to carry. Exactly what I was looking for!
5|So far so good, we put three of these in a icydock running raid5 on centos7. Temps are a little warm but for the price its worth trying $79 on Dec 4th, 2014. Will update if they go bad...
5|Does what it says, used for PS4 and it work perfectly .
4|This 4TB portable hard disc drive from Seagate is super fast and completely USB powered so you're not tethered to a power supply! USB 3.0 is part of why this drive is a speed demon, but it is also backwards compatible with USB 2.0 ports (although you won't see the 3.0 speeds.) Another big reason this drive is so speedy is that it is really two 2.5" Samsung 2TB SATA drives that are in a RAID-0 configuration. RAID stands for Redundant Array of Inexpensive (Independent) Disks. There are several RAID levels, which refers to how the data is distributed between the drives. This is RAID-0, which is optimized for speed with no mirroring or parity (no redundancy.) So what does that mean to the user? It means you will get very fast data transfer speeds but if either of the drives should fail, you will lose all of your data since data is written simultaneously onto both of the drives. So does that mean RAID-0 is bad? Nope. It just means that this should not be your primary back up drive and that data written to this drive should be backed up regularly to guard against data loss in the even of a drive failure. The drive itself is surprisingly small and without the need for an a/c power adapter, it's highly portable. The top of the drive is a matte finish aluminum and the sides and base are a matte finish plastic. It ships with two USB cables. One is a Y cable for laptops and computers that can't power the drive via one USB port so you can plug it into two USB ports. It comes with Seagate Dashboard software pre-installed on the drive, but can use your preferred back up software instead. I like the Seagate back up software fine but I'm not especially enamored with the social media applications. So I've loaded mine with movies and family videos (that are all safely backed up) we can watch on the television and it works great for that. I was very gratified to see how quickly I was able to write all that data but I did notice this drive got very hot during the process. You won't want this thing sitting in your lap while it's working. ;-) The drive is really, really quiet and I had to glance at the slow blinking white LED on top several times to reassure myself it was still busily writing. As a side note, it is interesting to me that the 2TB drives inside can be installed in a PlayStation 4 gaming console to double the storage. Of course, it would void the 3YR. Seagate warranty but if you're even moderately comfortable installing a HDD, you could upgrade your PS4 and your laptop storage with the two drives within.
5|good
1|This was a complete failure. After several days, got blinking light with no recognition on computer. Nothing worked to fix it. Threw it away after destroying the disk due to passwords from business back ups on hard drive. Don't buy this. 69 dollars wasted.
5|I like this drive. It solves the problem I had for it: backs up four home computers with smaller drives. I keep it turned off and unplugged, unless I am in the process of backing up again. Three of the computers run Win7, a laptop runs Linux Mint. No negative to report on this review.
5|very good!!
5|Super easy to use and already have my Mac backed up to it!
5|Great product. Call Seagate's excellent customer service if you buy it for your Mac. They walk you through the reformatting process.
5|Good deal
5|Cool external drive. Delievery was so fast
5|Super fast delivery. Good product. Easy to use.
5|This Seagate external hard drive works perfectly. I had a question that I emailed to their customer service on Thanksgiving Day and I got a thorough answer on the same day! They made me a customer for life.
1|Mine failed after about four months. All data lost.
5|Very nice size and powered via USB is a big plus. Read many complaints re setup, just fiddle with it its no huge problem and you will be successful before you break it.
5|Got is cheap from amazon offer. Works well. Use with my Xbox one for game storage. Since it doesn't need additional power (usb) Ideal for Xbox additional storage.
5|Reliable. Fast. USB 3.0 issues only with one of my laptops b/c the laptop is buggy. Owned it for a year thereabouts I beleive no troubles. Did a lot of research and settled on this one.
5|receive in good condition.very nice
5|I am using 2TB for 6 month, so far so good.
5|I have used Seagate Slim External Hard Drives for years and have had no problems with them.
5|This hard drive was a great find it was easy to install seagates software it had on screen instructions and i had no trouble with it at all. I was able to back up my entire computer with in about 10 min even with a few movies that i have and the many many documents and papers that i have on there and once they were there they were easy to get to and open the files when needed and the 1TB is just a massive amount of space i wasnt even able to use about 50% of the hard drive this thing is great i would definitely recommend this to any one!
5|it's good.
5|Great external HD. I have 2 others. Love Seagate.
5|great!
5|This is a pretty good hard drive. It comes with some software that you could opt to use but I just ignored it. Speeds are pretty good too, especially when transferring large files like 1080p movies. I am happy with my purchase.
5|I bought my Seagate 2TB HD and got it in yesterday. This is an absolute - must have, easy to use and now I'm ready to go get my iMac after backing up my windows computer.
4|Nice
2|It is not a good deal at all. I found a better deal on tigerdirect.com. I want to return it, but it cost $8.28. I am not happy with that.
3|I have been having trouble with this drive due to the software Seagate has forced me to install to use it. Other than that it reads and writes amazingly fast.
1|I have been unable to restore and/or read the backed up items on my Seagate. I have also had difficulty receiving support from Seagate.
1|SIMPLY GARBAGE!!!!!!!!!!!!! Does not work with my Mac at all. After continuously trying to get it to work the return window passed and now I am stuck with it :-(
5|Extracted and fitted into my Acer Aspire R7-572g to give me heaps of storage. Reasonably quick and quiet, and the only option that will give you this much space in a laptop HDD.
1|False advertisement just killed this for me. First of it says can function between Mac and PC without reformatting. And no it does not. I plugged it into my mac and tried to put files in and it would not work. I proceeded to download a dashboard program that came on the hard drive that said it would need to format to use between mac and pc. I clicked ok to that option and ran installation. By the way the installation doesn't always run. It took me 3 tries before it would pop up the actual installation and not have it make me register the dam thing 3 times. Such bad software. Anyway when I finally ran the installation an error pop-ed up saying driver could not be installed. The installation still finished but when it restarted I still could not drag files into the hard drive. There is the option to download some software that allows the use of NTFS for mac but that is not the same thing. I want to be able to plug it into a random mac and get files from it without the hassle of needing to install on the computer. This is not how a harddrive is supposed to work. I use multiple lab based computer that don't allow further installation so it wouldn't allow this program to be installed and so my hard drive wouldnt work. I am going to contact amazon and segate to see how they can make up for this bad experience I will update this afterwards. Besides the installation being a bad experience, the dashboard is kind of confusing, and the false advertisement being a total turn of, the harddrive is pretty dam silent so thats good, its also very small and light so easy to carry, and it is pretty much 2TB free space unlike some drives that take out 3gb of space. So it it a nice hardware system but the software end is very unsatisfactory.
4|It bears saying that this drive has to be connected directly to my PC USB ports. It won't function connected to a hub. I like this backup drive a lot, though the software that comes with it leaves a lot to be desired. It refused to install, initially. Then, when I attempted to run the Dashboard, it froze. Repeatedly. After restarting, I tried again, and the Dashboard froze. After a few minutes, it started to function; however, each time I attempted to set up a backup plan, it stuck. Either it runs very slowly and the design of the software doesn't indicate functions-in-progress, or it's just buggy. I don't know. Hence, only 4 stars. Once I got the Dashboard to work, it backed up my files seemingly as indicated.
5|Awesome~ Saved me during a major computer crash.
5|working good
5|Excelent
4|This drive seems like a good value for its size and brand. It's a little bit heavier than I expected but it's clad in (what looks like) a metal case. As others have also pointed out, it's actually two stacked HDDs which makes it a tad thicker. I removed one star for the following reasons: - The software doesn't come with any type of security like password controls. I'd recommend downloading DiskCryptor. - Its size and weight are bigger than I expected Still, in all, a great drive
5|With any drive, first be sure to use the Disk Utility program in the Utilities folder to format it for Mac OS Extended. Otherwise, it's a fast USB 3 portable drive that I use to store raw GoPro video on it so that I don't use up my Mac's hard drive. It does pull power from my MacBook, not being self powered, so I don't keep it plugged in. Nice, slim drive for the money. I have an older USB 2 drive at work that's been in use for four years now.
5|Slim, small and 2T. Love it!
5|Fast efficient and great storage for backing up anything. I used it to store movies on while in afghanistan. never had an issue with it
5|Exactly what I needed! Arrived speedy quick! Thank you!!
5|Easy to use. Holds everything on laptop hard drive with room to spare. Great to have back up automatically.
5|This has proven to be the perfect backup unit for my Time Capsule.
4|It works well
3|works with mac after driver installed, but not compatible with time machine?
3|It feels like a decent piece of tech and it reads and writes at a good speed. Only problem is that right out of the box it was "Read Only" on my Macbook Pro, even though I selected the option to set it up as Mac only use. Went to google and found a random comment on a support thread that linked to what seems to be a vital piece of software from Seagate to get it to read AND write. Probably shouldn't have to go and find that on my own. But once I did, everything worked great.
5|When I was first offered to review this hard drive, I was surprised, since I never heard of 4TB laptop drives in the market. However after seeing the device, it is obvious that this is a small RAID-0 package of two 2TB drives, which provide very fast speeds in a small form factor. One of the best things about "portable" drives is that this does not require an external power supply (like the "external" hard drives), and thus are much more versatile. Even when there are two drives, this is lighter from a regular 4TB external drive. However having RAID-0 comes with both advantages, and disadvantages, and you should know them before investing. - The drive performance depends on your USB3 chipset. For example my desktop could only go up to 200MB/s. But my laptop has a better USB3 system. - Having two drives run parallel means, they will fail at least twice as fast, so do not use this for your only backup. However having a 3 years warranty is nice (it means Seagate actually believes neither of the drives should fail in that period) - Having two drives in a small area also means more heat. During my surface test of the drive, it quickly reached over 60C (~140F) temperatures (this also stresses the drive more, shortening its lifespan) - In case of a failure, data recovery from RAID arrays is much more difficult than regular drives. Nevertheless, as far as I know, there are no 4TB laptop drives in production, and this is the best choice if you want to carry that amount of data in a small package. Just make sure you have another copy of your backups.
5|Love it! Fast, big and slim. In fact, I use it as internal drive for a laptop.
5|Exactly as described and fast shipping.
5|Fast, pretty, and a good price at $89.00 for a 2 TB drive. Powers entirely off of the USB port.
5|I have absolutely nothing bad to say about this HD! I have 4 of them in varying HD sizes.
1|Super confusing. I need a drive that I can use with USB on many computers- like a giant flash drive. This one seems to be for back up with an app, and is not for moving from computer to computer. I don't get it, perhaps good for backing up phone and laptop via wifi. My other Seagate drive let me manually save files how I wanted them organized, but it's usb port is loose and I loose connection. I guess I'll be looking for a different brand, as the first one went bad within a year, and now this one requires a set up that doesn't work for my needs.
5|I've used 9.5mm HDD before but I didn't remember how small they were. I'm used to chunky external HDDs and internal ones. I bought two, one to later use with a PS4 and both to first hold files as I reformatted my HDDs to something that would be usable on both Linux and Windows. They performed great both capable of reading and writing constantly at 100+ MB/s.So far Seagate drives have served me well.
5|This perfectly met my needs to backup the principal data I would lose if my hard drive crashes: documents, photos, music, spreadsheets, some programs. The included software allows set up to back up as often as you'd like (once weekly for me at an hour when I won't need the computer or be using the data). It is extraordinarily small, and even allows you to turn the light on the front off if you don't want it on all the time.
4|This review is for the 4 TB Drive. I currently own another Seagate external hard drive, Wireless Plus 1TB Portable Hard Drive. I have owned that for almost two years and have had no problems, and it has worked perfectly, so I am satisfied with Seagate's products. I decided to try this product because it holds so much data and is so small. So far, it has worked very well. I have a lot of big movie and image files for my business. I need a lot of space, and this product has that, with 4 TB of space! That is amazing for a device this small. It is powered entirely by the USB ports on my computer. It comes with a connector that has dual USB plugs just in case one port doesn't deliver enough power. My computer seems to do fine with just one port, although I tried both at first. This means that if you don't have two free USB ports on your computer, you might be unable to use this drive. Luckily I have two that are free. My ports are not USB 3, so the transfer speeds weren't that impressive, but that is the limitation of my 2011 computer, not this device. It comes with a three year warranty, although this won't cover recovering files if the device breaks. I personally recommend double backing up, using either a cloud service, or owning multiple external drives (I use both). I won't use the Seagate software, mainly because I already have Cloud back up services (Dropbox and Google Drive), and I don't need another one. Plus, I am pretty fanatical in backing-up my files, so I remember to do it regularly by simply plugging in the device. The main drawback to this is the price. The fact that this is 4 TB of data storage in such a small device, powered only by USB ports is pretty impressive. This requires a higher price. So, the buyer will have to determine if these features are worth the price. Honestly, I could probably get away with half the space for a cheaper price. You will have to make that determination.
5|Good storage for a small space.
5|Excellence
3|Pros: large capacity Cons: - doesn't connect to my Surface pro 3 because it doesn't have a backup power adapter. - gets heated very quick and high temperature.
4|did not fit Apple Macbook pro
5|The drive is very light and compact, about the size of a smart phone. The techs as Seagate make setup a pleasure.
5|Looks good, feels solid, works well. If you buy on value rather than price, this is the one to get.
5|Nice HD for backup and to transfer files between Mac and Windows 7 computers. Small enough to carry with you when traveling. Recommended.
5|i love seagate
5|This drive is replacing an older seagate model, which is also 4TB. Of course, this one is less than 1/4 the size. Possibly 1/6. And while the older one made an irritating humming noise while reading or writing, this one is utterly silent. I keep worrying that it's not actually doing its job, but whenever i check the data, it's there.
1|I've had this drive for a couple of years, and it's caused a lot of problems. I've had to send it back twice to be fixed - once, I dropped it (my fault), and once the drive the company sent me was formatted for Windows instead of Mac (their fault). The drive is finicky and un-ejects itself almost at its own whim. I do not recommend it.
5|I initially reported this drive had slow performance, which I need to correct. The performance is actually very good. I cannot explain the initial slow results I got with Blackmagic and QuickBench on both exFAT and HFS+ formats. That was on a 2013 iMac 27, 3.5Ghz i7, 32GB RAM, 3TB Fusion Drive, GTX-780m GPU under Mavericks OS X. Re-testing the same exact drive plus a new identical unit, they both give good performance -- roughly 120 MB/sec on both Blackmagic and Quickbench extended. I cannot explain the difference, as the original tests were performed many times under various file system formats. Maybe it was a bug in OS X, as these new tests were done under Yosemite 10.10.1, but that is a stretch. This is an excellent drive for all uses. The combination of good transfer performance, high capacity and small physical size is attractive.
5|integrated nicely. really easy plug and play. you can use the Seagate Dashboard software to make automated backups of your files. its much slimmer than the WD My Passport 2TB Portable External which i had for about 1 year or so. Both drives functions just the same. the included Seagate software is a bit easier to use than the WD software. But the WD has more functionality. Excellent for grab and run during emergencies cuz its really portable. But you gotta make sure your backups are performed daily so you don't miss new data. so far no issues or error messages are popping up. make sure to get it when it goes on sale, I got the Seagate Backup PLus Slim 2Tb for about $89, I noticed that that WD Passport I had is now $126.
5|Of course, it's impossible to know the true value of a hard drive except in the long run -- and it's not yet the long run. Mechanical hard drives don't last forever, of course, and no should expect that. I will, however, update my review if and when this hard drive gives up the ghost. My experience with Seagate drives has been extremely good, I might add, and I have no reason to think this will be different. What comes with the drive? Well, you get a USB 3.0 Y cable (which splits into the drive interface and a USB for attaching other devices. This is helpful as the drive itself has no USB ports. You also get Seagate Dashboard for both Mac and PC. As a Mac user, it's a pleasant surprise to get a hard drive that has a Mac version of anything. Unfortunately, this program doesn't lead anywhere except to a test drive (temporary) of back-up software. Oh well. This drive, by the way, is very small. Much smaller than I expected, and also unexpectedly heavy for its size. It doesn't feel particularly rugged, so I'd be quite careful lugging it around. The weight allow might cause some serious damage to the unit in a fall. Note that this drive doesn't support S.M.A.R.T. diagnostics, so you can't get ongoing diagnostics to know if and when the drive is starting to malfunction. Don't underestimate S.M.A.R.T. It can give you enough time to copy a hard drive before it fails, and the lack of S.M.A.R.T. support is of concern here. Although this is a RAID drive, it is a RAID 0 -- meaning there is no redundancy and, if one of the two drives fails, you've lost everything. (Pieces of files are kept on each of the two internal discs.) In theory, this might mean less reliability because two complicated mechanisms must continue to perform for the device as a whole to function. We'll see how this plays out over time. Without S.M.A.R.T. diagnostics, you may be playing a little fast and loose if you us it as your only back up.
5|great drives
5|I bought a 2TB Seagate Backup Plus Portable Drive (Model STDR2000100 2TB) from Amazon last Friday. It arrived with Monday’s mail to my SW Ohio home. It’s about the size of a pack of cigarettes (volume-wise) and very nicely finished. I plugged it into my new iMac, booted it up, and the drive icon immediately appeared on screen. When I opened it, I found three files visible: Warranty.pdf Seagate Dashboard for Windows.exe Seagate Dashboard for Mac.dmg Since I have no PCs and since I hope to add a boot system to the drive, I chose to reformat the drive with a GUID partition table with the Mac OS Extended (Journaled) file system. The formatting took less than a minute using Apples “Disk Utility” application. [See Seagate article 207851 here: http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/207851en?NewLang=es&language=en_US . See also Apple Support article HT202380 here: http://support.apple.com/en-us/HT202380 .] However, before I did that, I called Seagate Support: I asked, “If, at some later date, I want to format my drive back to NTFS, could I do that, and would the software that was on the disk when I bought it be available to me online?” I was assured that I could, though I would need to do it from a PC, and the software is available online free. [For the software downloads, go here: http://www.seagate.com/search/?keyword=dashboard%20download .] I also took the precaution of copying “Warranty.pdf” to my main drive before reformatting, and copying it back to the Seagate after reformatting. I then asked what the difference was between the drive I bought and the more expensive Seagate Model STDS 2000100. Well! The hardware is identical. The only difference is software, and that software is available online free. Wow! Wish I’d started asking that that question ten drives ago! [See, "Seagate Dashboard 3.0 How to Setup Mobile Backup Using the Backup Plus as the Destination Drive," and the other Seagate Dashboard videos on YouTube.] Some have asked how hot this drive gets. Mine just now finished copying a 250 GB Time Machine backup file from a Firewire drive (plugged into the iMac’s Thunderbolt port via Apple’s Firewire-to-Thunderbolt converter cable) to my new Seagate drive. The transfer took about 20 hours. My fingertips can barely perceive that the drive is warmer than the room. I’m impressed! Several have reported reliability nightmares with this drive. It’s far too soon for me to have any experience on that, but it does concern me. To protect myself for the next two years, I purchased the, "Seagate Rescue - 2 Year Data Recovery Plan for External Hard Drives," for another $10. So far, I love this drive!
5|Thanks
5|I don't understand how so many people have had problems with this product. If you are constantly plugging it in and out by via USB, WITHOUT telling the desktop, laptop, tablet, ect., while it is still on. If you do not know where the settings are at, you should ask someone that is computer savy, read the manual, go on the product(s) Web Site or even call them. It is best to have it set for continuous backup instead of a scheduled backup. Why do I say that, everything you have it set to backup, it is doing while you were changing it while you add or delete something. I have not had any problems with this product. I hope this helps helped someone
4|I just did the encryption by right click option, it took more than a day to finish. file transfer seem very fast and stable. overall, i like it so far.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is a critical part of my family's data disaster readiness plan. We subscribe to Office 365 Home primarily to get unlimited OneDrive storage. Along with the Office documents, I synchronize our photos, music, and other data to OneDrive. This creates a remote copy of all our files in case the house burns down or some other local catastrophe hits. Until recently, I assumed this covers us well, but I learned that wasn't true. A family member's computer became infected with ransomware in which all the the data on the hard drive was encrypted and held ransom for $500. When I checked the files on OneDrive, I saw that the wrongfully encrypted files overwrote the remote files. They were just as locked and lost as the local files. Thankfully, the data loss was minimal and corrected with a system restore. Now, I've added this Seagate external hard disk to our plan. And the included Seagate Dashboard software offers a nice backup and restore utility. It saves versions, too. So you can go "back in time" to previous backup sets to restore a file that might have been deleted, corrupted, or unintentionally edited. The drive is indeed slim, lightweight, and very portable. I got the 2 TB version which offers plentiful storage for my needs. The street price for this device is a good value, and it's cheap insurance against losing irreplaceable data.
5|Best looking portable hard drive on the market, very slim shape and high grade material finish. Fast USB 3 performance.
5|With in time you will need an External Hard Drive and this one is portable and can be use in between computers, labtops, Nintendo Wii, Xbox360, PS3, Tablets, and now Xbox one, and PS4 I Dont know about Nintendo Wii U and can use on some cell phone storage
5|Great portable drive for the price and the blue distinguishes it from others I have.
3|It's a fine HD if you're not actually moving it around. EVER. It's not really portable at all. I bought two of them. I carry them with me when I travel, on freelance gigs, etc. BOTH of them are now useless because the cords won't stay plugged into the back of the drive. Every five seconds I get the error message "you didn't eject your disk properly". Really frustrating and have lost a lot of work. My old LaCie lasted years. I guess I'll go back to carrying around a bag full of those rather than trying to consolidate into the 4TB. I hope LaCie comes out with a 4TB portable drive sooner rather than later!
5|Like it...
3|Nice size and texture.The mobile backup feature doesn't perform like is described by the manufacturer. I tried multiple times with no success to back up my iPhone to the drive. To the manufacturer: just say it's a 2 tb hard drive and everybody will be happy, that's it.
4|Seagate does a good job providing a useful product in a small form factor. It is excellent for any business trip because of its compact size. There really isn't much else to say as it performs as you would expect from any other portable hard drive in this category. The USB 3 is great, and a must have. So far, so good. The product is performing well and I am quite pleased with purchasing this unit.
1|didn't work on Mac
3|had some problems with the set up
1|I just finished recover this hard drive of mine. Only half of my videos and files managed to be saved. And only half of them only can be opened/played. Plus I need to spend extra $70+$80 for recovery process and new hard drive. I can't believe amazon sells this kind of rubbish. I really wanted to give half of a star for it. Not worth your money.
5|The Best!
5|Sleek looking! compact USB 2TB Drive! Easy to set up! I love it!
5|Small, reasonably cheap, reasonably fast, reliable device. It even looks good.
1|Although it's written it's compatible with both mac and PC, but it isn't.
5|Perfect
5|This is a small hard drive that can easily be carried in your laptop bag. I have a lot of pictures on my computer and the space used was negligible. I would highly recommend this product. The price was also very good when I purchased mine and Seagate had been highly recommended to me.
5|I bought this because I m=have a Mac and a PC laptop - interchanges between both effortlessly. Thanks!
5|Great.
4|This is a nice, compact drive with a lot of capacity. It does want it's supposed to do. Transfer speeds seem pretty good using it for my Mac Time Machine backup drive, although this is my first USB 3.0 drive, so I don't have anything to compare it to. My only complaint is with the construction. The product description discusses the drive's metal construction, but only the silver face of the housing is metal - the sides and back (the black-colored areas in the picture) are plastic. I would have given it five stars if the housing was entirely metal.
5|Fast, small, BIG storage and no power cord.
5|gOod
5|everything is good!
5|I ordered 2 of these and opened them both up, then installed them into a laptop that holds 9mm drives. Works wonderful.
5|Beautifully designed external hard drive. I love Seagate products and this one is no different. Everything you'd except for an external HDD. Works and functions as expected. I can't say anything about the included software because I formatted it as soon as I plugged it into my USB 3.0 port.
5|Great compact little drive.
4|Easy to use
5|I use this on my MacBook pro and have been very pleased by it's speed and reliability.
5|There's not much you can really say about an external hard drive. It's functional, pretty fast, and it holds my stuff. Achievement unlocked!
5|Love this...product got to me as requested in ONE day...and it is running nice and fast and clearing out space for me. Thank you goes to seller, driver and Seagate for fantastic all around service. Thank you.
5|This is my second of these. My last 2TB portable drive was purchased a year ago and is still working well after 3 trips to the EU and 4 trips to Asia, but NEF photos can fill up 2Tb in no time, so I needed another to carry with me, and it is always good to double or triple back-up the most important items.
5|Smallest drive I have seen, use to back up my desktop
5|I like that I can switch between a MacBook and a windows tablet without a reformat
5|I was looking for a great, portable external hard drive with a lot of memory, and this one is awesome. Easy to use, can be set to do auto-backup, hides easily behind my computer. I would buy it again.
4|good
5|Great value. Well packaged.
5|Nice, sleek, great price. Works!
3|I really wish there was a wireless option.
5|i love it
5|Put it into my ps4 with a youtube walkthrough and it says total is 1.77 tb which is much better than the 500gb you get
5|Perfect
4|Arrived on time and works well.
5|Took out the hard drive and put it in my mac book pro. works great!!! There are a couple you tube videos out there on how to do it.
5|I plugged it into my laptop and it started up. it loaded the necessary software and within a few minutes I was storing data. worked as advertized.
4|Works as expected.
5|my information technology people love it.
5|Works as advertised. Small, light, and convenient.
5|This little device saved my laptop! The laptop's internal hard drive completely failed and luckily I had good system image and backup saved to this external hard drive. I haven't tried the Seagate backup software that it comes with so I can't say how well that works. I use Windows Backup (Windows 7) to create the images and backups.
4|Its Ok, Its a Seagate, good technology.
5|These are great small zippy drives. Very cool that they are powered by the computer too. I use it on my mac for a back-up drive.
5|love this drive, good performance and the slimmest profile out there for the capacity, also lightest (short of SSD drive) have had it several months and no issues to report I have not done any technical speed tests etc but very pleased with performance
5|Very nice!
5|Great little drive! Makes little noise and is easy to set up!
5|Perfect Size, Fast, slim, Recommendend
1|This hard drive is absolutely horrible. I purchased it on September 10, 2014 from TD, backed my whole computer on it (20000 plus family photos, company files, etc.) and now, two months later, the drive is not recognized by the computer. I did all the troubleshooting available to get it going, but everything was unsuccessful. I went back to TD, so they could troubleshoot it and no success there either. I was told to take the drive to specialized data recovery company since that is the only available option. Desperate to get my data back, I paid $100 for priority service to have the drive evaluated and to see how much it would cost to get the data back. The conclusion? I would have to pay $1200 to try to get (some!) data back. I wanted to cry. And Seagate's answer? "We only cover the drive not the data". Thank you very much, Seagate. The data is the most important thing on the drive, it's priceless, and you don't cover it? BTW, I could get a replacement drive from Seagate because it's still "under the warranty", but to get the new drive, I would have to send the old one back!! What if I want to save up the money and have the data recovered one day? It seems like no one thought of that. Very bad experience. Not a trustworthy company. Please don't buy this drive, so you don't have to go through the same disappointment I went through.
5|This is a great portable external hard drive that can help you make sure you never lose your data. Being a photographer, it would kill me to lose 30 years of portraits. With this back up I never have to worry about that happen. Ease to set up and use.
5|Small, fast, and portable 1TB drive is my daily carry in my backpack. I have enabled full drive encryption on this drive, and saw a very minimal performance impact. Speed is still good, and due to the small size, I do not even know it is in my bag.
5|so great I NEED to retrun deposit money
5|Goood~!!!
1|Impossible to use, difficult to understand, lack of basic guidelines on how to use the damn thing.
4|I like it, but since my computer doesn't have USB 3 capability it took several hours to back up my computer's files. My problem - not the Seagate hard drive's. A good buy!
5|Its perfect. It arrived in a week. Booked in spain.
3|Bought this at Costco. Drive works fine but there is no password protection, no encryption, nothing to protect your data if you lose the drive or if it is stolen.
5|Nice product
5|great product and very fast shipping
1|Lasted long enough for me to put all of my important info on while I fixed some computer issues. Went to plug it back in and it will no longer spin up, and I have been incredibly careful with handling it. Contacted Seagate for data recovery and data recovery is not covered under the warranty. 400 dollars to get all of my childhood photos back, which I just can't afford right now. So sad to lose all of those memories. Do not trust this drive with your stuff.
5|I have western digital and my first Seagate, both great, I like the software a bit better here.. Nice drive lots of storage...
5|Works well. Good price. I do not use the included software. There are a lot of backup programs to choose from and the one that comes on this product is not useful in my opinion.
5|great
4|note that you can't use automated backup when making it compatible for both pc and mac.
4|having it just one day and being able to back up my mobile device.... im very happy
5|I'll let you know how good it is the next time my computer crashes. . . .the installation and set-up was easy
5|Drive works great
4|Bought- 10/2014 Very sleek and slim. Looks good and very portable. Already dropped it a couple times unintentionally of course, and it's still working so that's a good sign of the quality. I have another Seagate External HD I bought less than a year ago and mine looks like a brick compared to this little one. I will definitely buy another when the time comes.
4|Cheap and eonogh big space. Its design is simple and good. I'm satisfy to this portable hard drive.
3|The build quality itself is nice. It matches my Mac well and doesn't feel cheaply made. As far as user friendly goes, it fails miserably. For one, the USB cable is short and stiff. It is not good for laptop users whatsoever, because you'll have to end up babysitting the drive to make sure it won't drop. That shortcoming could have been overlooked though, if the drive didn't continuously disconnect and give me a "hdd not ejected properly" warning. At first I thought it was my USB drive, so I switched them, used both USB drives, and still the same results. Then used various USB devices, including an older 500 GB Seagate hdd that I love (being the reason I bought Seagate again) and nothing else ever disconnected or failed in any way. Buyer beware. Steer toward another hdd manufacturer or model of Seagate. This one is a bust.
5|Works great, fast and easy to use!
5|great downright
4|it does what it is supposed to very adequately
5|Excellent product.I use both PC and iMac. The product announcement was accurate and allowed me identifies the item clearly. The delivery was made on the date promised.I recommend this seller.
5|Good drive for the price.
4|Slimmer than previously anticipated! Gonna plug it in 2morrow 2 C how works. . . . ! . . . ? . . . ? . . . !
5|This item works so good I bought another one week later!
5|Wow! This drive is really thin! I previously had bought the Western Digital My Passport Ultra and this is much lighter and thinner. I'm very happy with this as it saves even more space than I thought. Excellent size for 2tb storage!
4|And I mean little! I have 5 different (some "portable") external hard drives, that I've accumulated, but this is so much smaller. It's working well. Little disappointed to find that drive speed is only 5400 RPM -- I had expected 7200 RPM so I took a star off for that.
5|works well!
5|nice portable lightweight hard drive better than wd my passport
4|Bought this to replace my PS4s hard drive. Quick easy and painless.
4|Small and compact! Worked well connecting it to my Linksys wireless router as a network drive
5|Great little drives and simple to use.
5|This device backs up and download very quickly
5|Its so sleek and works absolutely great
5|What a great deal!!! 2TB for a hundred smackers!!!!!! Love this hard drive. Nice and THIN too!!!! Excellent buy. It fits perfect in the amazonbasics hard carring case for my passport essential.
5|Good~!!
5|Very easily and successfully opened the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB drive to upgrade an old MacBook Pro. There was a SATA driven 9.5mm 2TB drive inside the slim enclosure, and it was a 5 minute swap to put the 2TB in my MBP and the older 160GB drive from my MBP into the Seagate enclosure. I just wish it came in a 7200rpm speed.
5|Good product. Worth the money.
5|Awesome!
5|Works fine with my netbook.
1|This is a mixed review. The Seagate 4TB I bought is probably functioning as designed. The one star is for Amazon and its continued incompetence and irresponsibility in describing the products they sell - correctly. The Amazon ad specifically says - and I quote "Use between PC and Mac computers without reformatting." While the Seagate drive shows in Finder and Disk Utility - it does not show in Time Machine to assign it as the backup HD - its designed and advertised purpose. Disk Utility says it is only formatted for Windows 7. It will have to be reformatted to use with Time Machine. Amazon please get your collective heads out of our nether regions when describing your products. Did you ever consider that someone might actually have to check and see if your descriptions are correct or just BS - pulled from your aforementioned head located nether regions? I'm upset not because this is an occasional problem - it's the fourth this week - all erroneous descriptions. Worse I actually own stock in Amazon. While I appreciate all the Amazon community that continues to do Amazon's rightful service work - it's wrong for Amazon to abuse this goodwill, by not doing at least a minimum of their fair share of product review and ad descriptions.
2|I returned this drive after less than 3 weeks. Bought this 2TB drive based on Wirecutter recommendation as an external drive for over 750GB of photos and music. Because my photos are important to me, I tried to backup the photos on the Seagate drive. But after an hour or so an error would appear that the drive had been disconnected - even though Finder indicated that drive was still connected. This occurred every time I tried - even with different cables and after running disk utility. Seagate support had no other suggested solutions. By the time I was ready to return this drive - my photo library was corrupted. (luckily I had retained an older external drive that contained most, but not all of my photos) Perhaps mine was just a lemon and not indicative of Seagate drives in general. But I am going back to my old reliable WD drives which have never let me down.
4|Worked as advertised, at a good price.
5|Ripped drive out and added it to my optical drive bay in my mid 2012 MacBook Pro. Works perfectly and the 1tb HGST SATA3 that DIDNT work in the optical bay went in the Seagate case. Less expensive than buying the bare drive AND I got the case for the HGST, can't beat it. Worked out perfectly - highly recommend this mod to add a buttload of storage to your laptop!
4|very good
5|Haven't used it much yet but out of the box it was very easy to connect up to my MacBook Air running Yosemite and set it up as my time machine backup. Didn't have to do anything time machine didn't walk me through. It is super small and light. Amazing it stores 2TB. So far I really like it. Will update if that changes. Only gripe is that the USB cable includes is really short!
5|I'm a very satisfied customer.
5|Awesome hard drive. First Seagate product I've ever owned and it works flawlessly on my Mac and on my PC.
5|Quiet, picks up fast on your computer, and runs great!
5|So compact and light! recommended to anyone with a laptop or even a desktop! i have a solid state drive in my Mac so i install all my software and video edits onto here so that i dont wear down my SSD life. transfer rates are VERY quick!
5|Just received and installed yesterday. Easy set up, and works as it should.
5|Nice, small, portable
5|Works great in the background silently protecting my puter and backing up my photos and pics. Works great...
5|Good
2|Well, I had difficulties. It started when i installed the software and up popped a "backup now" icon. Turns out Memeo gets installed and then they tell you to pay. The setup was confusing (for me, at least) It took quite a while to back up about 500GB of data. I put together a new photo folder to see if things we being continuously updated. Couldn't find it. Messaged on Facebook with Support to no avail. Later I did a search on the drive itself and discovered the folder was indeed there, just not where I expected it to be. turns out that can't be done. each little back generates it's own file apart from Pictures and Music, etc. The other Seagate expansion drive did that, no problem. this is a deal breaker for me. I spent over an hour with phone support again to no avail. simply stated it would ot do what I needed it to do. In the end I decided that I might have better luck with a different manufacturer. Returned for an exchange.
5|Seagate is my fave. Great value on this one too. I own 2 of this particular one. All good. I bought a western digital once in a 1T based on price. It corrupted after 2nd use. So I do not stray from Seagate now. (and I boycott WD as they didn't stand behind their product and Seagate does!!!!)
3|Purchased for another employee at work. Received no feedback from him, good or bad.
5|Plug in and forget it. It works fine
5|I have learned to delete any pre packaged info on the drive. Then you have massive amounts of storage. I use it for 4K video editing and storage.
5|Good deal
5|good! Cheap Price~Simple design!
5|Excellent disks. Very compact, quiet, and reliable.
5|Works very well on my mac
5|Another Seagate product brings peace of mind to my backup projects.
5|worked as expected.
1|Used the blue Seagate external hard drive for 5 months. Moved my music, photos and movies to this drive to free up my computer's hard drive. Three days ago it crashed. Lost everything. Fortunately I backed up my backup. However, I still lost a month's worth of multimedia. Hoping that Seagate will stand behind their product despite the fact that I'm beyond the return time period. If so, I will change my 1-star rating.
5|Great product for even a greater price! Buy some Velcro and post it on the back of your laptop screen while traveling.
5|bought this on a Kindle deal and I have been adding tons of stuff. Easy to use and supe glad I bought it! Truly worth it!
5|This is great! No more large external which had to be plugged in. It's tiny, light, and comes with its own cord (different from standard USB cords). I partitioned it using Mac Disk Utility so I could use one partition for Time Machine. I also back up on Carbonite ... never again will I use only a external drive ... had too many stop working. This comes with great reviews from many different sites.
5|I purchased this drive as a backup for all my files from two other external drives. My plans were to back up the other drives and leave them on this drive on the shelf, Since it worked very nice with good speed and easy set up I am now going to use this drive for day to day use and leave the others on the shelf. I plugged the drive in and it worked you cant ask more than that. the feel of the unit seems well built and firm in design, I copied 1.8TB onto it and noticed no heat at all, I like this drive and will most likely purchase another one.
5|Great capacity portable hard drive that looks great and runs fast!
5|Excelente producto
4|Having used this drive for a month now I can say its meets all of my needs. The drive is light weight, compact and has a rugged aluminum case. Connections are USP 3.0. So why the 4 stars? The cord supplied is only 18" long and the plastic insulation is stiff as a board. Be sure to buy a cable with some flexibility and especially some length. The bigger reason is the backup software that Seagate supplies is very inflexible. It only allows backups from your C: drive, so backups from another hard drive or flash drive to the Seagate cannot occur using their software. Using a 3rd party backup solves the problem.
3|the auto-back-up is a bit confusing. I bought two of these devices for work and home. it ended up it could not distinquish between the two drives and made it very difficult to figure out whether a hard drive was backed up or not.
5|Easy to use!!! Good quality device.
5|awesome
5|pretty good
5|one word. Awesome!
1|I have had a earlier Seagate external. The earlier was an extension drive, worked flawlessly (still works). I bought this one expecting the same quality. NOPE. I cant transfer any of my data to the drive. Somehow it fails to read files and give me transfer speeds in the range of 200-500Kbps. Thoroughly unacceptable. I transferred the same files to my older drive and I got speeds of upto 20Mbps! My earlier drive is USB 2.0 and this is USB 3.0! also, the cable connector is exceedingly flimsy, disconnects at the slightest pretext! Thoroughly disappointed in Seagate's quality. I will advise not to buy this drive!
5|Directions for installation and use are very clear.....feel good about backing up all important pictures, documents etc. from our PC....ordered another today to back up the laptop and other devices.
5|I've bought two of these over the last few months for disk imaging purposes. They're fast and a good addition to your arsenal of disk backups.
5|Really nice size. Love it.
5|Amazing product, Externals have come a long way and this product has so impressed me! Excited to have secure back up for my 100K plus photos!
5|When you travel in the broadcast business, products like these are indispensable.
5|Great backup drive. Works with ease. Use for both Mac and PC.
4|good and stable product so far (as usual)
5|Works ad advertised
5|Great product
5|good!! thanks~
5|Thank you Amazon for the amazing product !!! This was my very first purchase from a foreign firm, and this got sorted out at a perfect reasonable price, no flaws in this. My only suggestion is that the packing can be made better :)
5|Just perfect for what I wanted!
5|Reads/ writes fast enough for daily backup, stylish case, runs quietly
5|Works flawlessly - easy to format and navigate. Read/write speeds 130/180 with stock cable plugged into USB 3.0 port on back of PC. Use it as backup of all my TV shows, stand ups, movies, music, etc. and yes I got it to playback the media on a TV, Xbox 360, Xbox One, Playstation 3 and 4 when most people say they cannot.
3|A pretty interesting little drive, very fast, sleek and light. However, if you are going to purchase one of these units, one should be aware of a few incompatibilities. It is not compatible with the CalDigit USB/Thunderbolt dock on the Mac, and second — and most troubling — it is incompatible with smartmontools for polling S.M.A.R.T. status. According to the chipset, it IS S.M.A.R.T. compatible, and it does return basic drive Information Section, but it fails with multiple errors on the Smart Data Section. I needed this drive for a very specific travel purpose, and for this trip it will serve its intended purpose. But by now, complete S.M.A.R.T. compatibility for ANY external USB3 drive.... should be completely standard.
5|This was very easy to use and the back up went quickly and smoothly. I recommend this device highly!
5|Great, no problems, great for backing up the computer.
5|very cool
5|Very nice unit. Purchased it to backup the school PCs. Exactly what I wanted.
1|Junk. This disk drive CONSTANTLY disconnects from my MacBook Pro. Completely worthless. Can't transfer files. Can't save pictures. Can't backup. It will connect just fine, but as soon as you try to move any data to or from it, it disconnects. It's only a matter of time before this constant disconnection permanently corrupts data in transit. I will be returning mine tomorrow.
5|I like this Hard Drive
5|Works great!
4|I got this at Costco for $90 and was a little worried... Worry not, its the fastest portable HD I have. Read/Write speeds well over 100mbps
5|It's thin as I expected and fast enough
5|great product....fast shipping!!!
5|This is a very compact external hardrive, and the 4 TB it has (really it has roughly 3.65 TB of usable space) makes it possible to store more for longer periods of time before erasing data to store more.
5|Very Easy to use.
5|It does the job it is intended to do. I had another Seagate external drive that went for a long time. I hope this one also lasts me for some time.
5|These Seagate drives are awesome. I even bought one to pull out the drive to use in my Intel NUC! It was a "piece of cake" to take it out (plenty of videos to guide you on YouTube) and use in my Intel NUC and had the perfect form factor (size). Extracting the drive from its case was a "no-brainer!" Most 2TB laptop drives out there are too thick to fit in the Intel NUC. This one was made for it and it is fast! In fact, I liked it so much I bought an extra one just to use for what it was really designed for: an external USB 3.0 drive. It runs fast and reliably -- love it! The price was right too (only $99 when I bought each of my two drives)!
5|got it for $25!! amazon kindle with special offers alerted me to the deal. Great. works great. The connector is larger than your typical usb connector, HOWEVER, you can use a regular micro usb cable.
5|it was a gift owner love it
5|Yep. Stoked. Came quickly. What I needed...
1|Worst interface I have seen. Links are broken, registration does not complete and forces the wrong response to close the window. Software update function does not update the desktop software. Calls to support are laced with > 6 automated layers and the wait times are excessive. Save your money or buy from WD. SEAGATE!! HIRE A SOFTWARE DESIGNER WITH INTELLIGENCE!!!!!
4|The reading and writing speed isn't as fast as I expected.
5|Instructions were quite clear. Backed up my PC hard drive quickly and easily.
1|I bought a 1TB version . The documentation is pretty appalling as it assumes you know what the different back up types are in Seagate Dashboard, no explaination anywhere. I work in IT and it was not obvious to me. This product is ok up to the point where you need to delete anything to free up space. The Dashboard software is pretty useless as it doesn't adequately delete your backups if you need to. This is because of the nature of how the program gradually builds up a path name that is so long that windows ( Im on 8.1) is too long to perform any action on files, other than open. So you cant delete , rename, take ownership of , and in some parts not even right click . The permissions are a problem also. I tried various Microsoft updates , removing Dashboard software, Disk Management, and there was no help on the Seagate website at all. I could try to get Certificate in Windows to try to understand how to sort this out, or get Seagate to sort it out , which ever might be the quicker , but I shouldnt have to go to these lengths to free up MY data! The only option is to format the drive!
5|Great unit. Because it was cheaper than buying the bare drive, I bought this and removed the drive
5|I use this drive with my SSD-equipped laptop every day. It works great.
5|verygood
5|very good
5|verygood
5|Excellent!
5|Excellent, excellent, excellent. It's as much a part of the computer as the computer itself. Wouldn't be without it.
5|Seagate are the best !
5|Quick, portable, met my expectations entirely. We'll see how it lasts, but as I have similar (older) model that's held up for over two years, I have high hopes.
4|Good Seagate drive, but Slim mean slow in terms of drive spin speed. Slower than the Seagate expansion drives, not a big deal unless you are copying large files, but it means you cannot fully take advantage of the USB 3.0.
5|great, very easy to use.
5|Not much to say other than it works well, is very compact, and still offers an activity light. Quite a lot for the money. I may buy more of these in different colors for easy content identification.
5|Works like it is supposed to!
5|I'm very happy with this external hardrive. I connected it to my Imac and downloaded the Plex app on my roku so I can watch all my movies and TV shows I saved in it. I also took it on an international trip and would plug it in to my Surface tablet when I got back to my hotel and there was nothing on the hotel TV.
5|The actual size of this unit as compared to the memory capacity is really great. I liked it so much that I purchased another on in a different color for a secondary back up.
5|Just what I needed
5|it works great and came on time. It was very easy to set up. It works great for gaming if your a gamer
5|8 months later, still works fine, but case getting a bit dented from traveling.
5|It arrived quickly and it was just what I needed. Thanks!
5|Though new to the device, it has met my need for storage. I am pleased with its performance and have experienced no downsides since beginning its use. For the non-technical person it has proven a good product - plug and play. Thanks.
5|this is very good!
5|++++AAAAAA
1|complete garbage! less then 3weeks after purchasing. it begins blinking and making a chime sound when i plug it in to my laptop. All my priceless documents are now gone. wish i would have looked into the 100+ negative feedbacks this model and brand was given before purchasing. Now that my info is gone; am i going to receive a free replacement at the very least?
5|great
5|Great!
5|Great item - quick ship!
5|This came on time and it works great.
5|I use the products received at this time It is all too easy First, you will still feel the eyes that have been huge improvements usb compatible speed. Second, I feel interested in a simple form called a mobile portable power cable does not need Third is the increased capacity eopcheong Previously, only a good idea if it can be so generous a large capacity would be massive 1tb As you saw with bosira to visit once
4|I did not have chance to use this product but eventually will use it.
5|Working perfectly so far, I have had it for 2 months.
1|The set-up process is way to involved. Just let me drag and drop what I want on it. I have a Master's Degree (with Honors) in Computer Science and taught computer science at the University of South Carolina so please take my comments to hart!
4|Works as expected. Will buy another later.
5|I really like seagate products and this is my 5th external hard drive works cool and fast
5|High quality product, great price.
5|working great
5|Seagate is a solid brand. I couldn't believe how small it really is to hold 1TB. And I LOVE the color options. I definitely will stick with this kind in the future.
2|I purchased this specifically because it said it was able to go back and forth from Mac to Windows without reformatting. This is not exactly true. When I first set it up, I left it on the default setting to be used for both. It let me save items on it on my laptop (a Mac), but when I went to save more items from my desktop (also a Mac) it would not allow it. I contacted Seagate to see what the issue was and was told that I would have to set it up again on the new computer, even though it was also a Mac. This would wipe out everything I had already saved to it. Kind of defeats the purpose. So don't use the default setting for both systems if you're usually on a Mac, set it up for that. Then that's all you can use it for unless you want to wipe it clean.
3|backup takes longer time.
1|Just got my 2TB slim. Issues: 1. Drive would self disconnection. 2. Had issues copying certain files ("could not find item") but no issues with other ext hard drive. 3. USB cable (hard drive end) connector was very flimsy. Thinking this unit may be defective and may returning. Disappointing.
5|I have 4 of these, 2tb slim. They are great. they fit in a typical shirt pocket without issue. Which is the reason I bought this model. The price was right as well. I wouldn't spend more then 99$, and I got them for 89 on sale. Speed: Good. Not the fastest but for the price, size and fit & finish these are a 5 star product.
5|Great performance, really fancy and good price
5|Very nice. Arrived on time. I had it out of the box and backing up my laptop in minutes
5|works great, lots of storage and no plug in to worry about
5|This inexpensive portable drive is a great on-the-go time machine backup source for my laptop.
2|This hard drive sucks I am very disappointed with with the quality of it and the fact that after having it for two weeks it's already crashed and I had to format it
5|Sleek, portable and unobtrusive with lots and lots of space for a great price. Performs great and have had no trouble with it thus far. I stick in my bag and just go. Suits all of my needs and if you're looking for a storage device that is simple, reliable and spacious it suit your needs as well.
5|I use this to store a huge photography library that would otherwise clutter up my MacBook Pro. The hard drive is small and sleek. Love it.
5|Product is nice. Thanks Amazon
5|Perfect. This is a back up for my tens of thousands of photos. Recommend.
5|haven't done much intense read/write work(i.e. video/audio production) but this drive has been perfect so far as a backup/storage. lots of room and a super tiny case! so far so good.
5|Easy to hook up and easy to operate.
5|good
5|I like this backup hard drive because of its nice color and very fast data transaction. Very useful.
5|I'm using this with an MacBook, and it's a slick little drive with a high quality case. On top of that, it's great value for money on a cost per unit of storage basis for a pocketable drive.
5|I have a macbook pro and the hard drive works perfectly. All I needed to do is reformat it to mac journal and it worked like a charm. What I love most about this external hard drive is how slim and small it is. Top notch. I'll be buying more of these as the need arises.
4|work as described, but the shell seems a bit cheap
3|Biggest disappointment is the fact that this is advertised for mobile backup, but I find that only means backup of photos on the mobile. Other than that, it is easy to set up and is impressively small.
2|advertizes it maxes 3.0 usb speed it does not I have a seagate drive on 3.0 usb external and this does not match it's speed. I must admit it's cute but no muscle. I will return it.
5|Great value. Just plug it in and go.
1|I had this drive for a year before it failed. Seems very common - I can only assume all the 5 star reviews are people who JUST got it, but I'm curious how many of those people still have functioning drives. I know I was impressed when I first got it. This is the second Seagate drive to fail on me after less than a year of use; any reasonable person would conclude that Seagate products are unreliable, and Seagate company policy depends too much on promoting their ability to potentially fix the issue (for a fee) rather than prevent it in the first place. They know these drives will fail, that is why there is a "Limited" warranty, not a "Lifetime" warranty. Find a different product, save yourself the outrage that will occur when 1TB of your files become a hostage of Seagate - you can MAYBE get them back, if you pay more than twice what the drive itself cost you. Furthermore, I know Seagate likes to reply to negative reviews on their products with a stock message. I'm not interested, save yourself the keystrokes.
5|Thumbsup ?
5|Love how small it is. Love it so far.
5|Met my expectations: form factor, aesthetics, speed. Good product, highly recommend.
1|****UPDATED 12/13/2014***** I purchased this drive hoping that I could find a good back-up for all my files that was a bit thinner and lighter than the WD My Passport series drives, especially since I do a lot of traveling. However, it's barely been two months since I've purchased this drive and it's already starting to fail. The drive will randomly drop out when connected during both file transfers and normal usage. There are also times where it won't even recognize it. This is using 4 different computers, and swapping the USB cable with known good ones to ensure it wasn't the issue. Also note, this drive has not left my home, has not been dropped. It was used once to transfer the files (roughly a month ago), stored, then again this week to check and verify the files. That's when these problems began. I've already purchased 3 of these drives through Amazon, and now I have to question their reliability. My suggestion, skip these and go with the WD My Passport or My Passport Ultra. I have 3 2TB that I've owned from out to about 1 1/2-2 years ago to 8 months ago. They are slightly thicker and a bit heavier, but I've had ZERO issues with them.
5|Excellent
5|very small, light, thin, sweet and slim external hard drive from seagate. excellent product. thanks a lot.
2|The device is nonworking, I connected it to my laptop, tried to copy some info, but I didn't copy anything. I checked this device by Seagate Fix tool, and found that this device can't finish the simple HDD test. I sent it to Seagate Customer Returns laboratory and wait for its response.
4|Have not used it extensively but seems to be working great. The transfer was pretty fast and I did not run into any issues.
4|Samll an gorgeous
5|Great external backup. Not to big which makes it easy to carry with you.
5|Great external! I turned it into an Internal and replaced my 250Gb HD. Also, I purchase 16Gb's of Ram from OWC and now my machine is amazing. If you want to take this thing apart just go slowly and because the glue inside will give but if you pull too hard you will break or bend the thin aluminum case. If you don't destroy it you can use it for your old HD. I purchased a Dell Monitor directly from Dell for 450.00 bucks, 27inch U2713HM monitor. Just shop it and go onto Dell online and give them the link and they will not only price match but also give you free shipping and a free 3 year replacement guarantee. I spent less than 800.00 and built a 3200.00 dollar machine, you can too....
5|works great as a backup for my phones. uses wireless network. no problems.
4|Working really great so far and very fast and easy to use. The cord, I noticed, is more heavy-duty than my other HD enclosures, so I won't have to worry about it wiggling out of connection anytime soon, which is great!
5|Works great on my Xbox One. Great transfer and read speeds, worls like a charm for installing games onto.
5|It works well and looks great. I love the size
5|Works good. I'm happy.
5|I loved this product at first sight :-) So slim and it performs really great!! Will recommend this.
5|Worth to buy!
4|Greeeeeatttt!
5|seagate backup plus slim portable 2 tb hard drive black model sdr20000100 hard drive works great with windows 7. use it to back up video and pictures . computer reconizes the hard drive when pluggend in . plug in hard drive with windows running. computer sees hard drive and you can copy your pictures and video to it. I do not use the software included with the hard drive. I copy pictures and video to the drive manualy. hard drive works great so far 2 months of use. says 2 year warantee by seagate usb 2.o or usb 3.0 fast transfer even at usb 2.0 I use.
3|not that fast, not that slim ,either... wouldn't buy again.
5|I bought two other drives and returned them before I found this one. I have a Mac, but I chose the setup to switch between Mac and PC just in case. Setup was pretty easy and I've had no problems with the drive. The previous two drives had me thinking I needed to purchase a new computer because I didn't think mine had enough power to support the new external hard drives. Save yourself time and hassle and buy the Seagate. I did not purchase from Amazon because the product was the same price at a local store.
5|I am very much satisfied with this Seagate Backup plus. It is very quick and efficient.
5|I took the hard drive out of the case and I use it in a hard drive bay as a slave drive. The performance is top notch! I will be purchasing more!
5|Light weight and affordable
5|My back up drive. It is tiny and holds more than I have on my computer! Can't beat that!
5|Quiet. Mac friendly. No problems after 2 months.
5|Extremely happy with it. The silver edition also looks so good. Definitely one of the best HDD out there
5|Drive does everything it should. Small, compact. User friendly software included. Highly rated reliability.
5|Loved it, all went great, quick delivery and great price.
5|It has a good quality
5|Excellent one. I am happy with the purchase
4|Do wish there was a direct hookup to my cell phone vs going through "my computer"
4|Did everything as mentioned
4|very small and quick and light ..
5|Fast and very portable. I use this when I travel to store video, etc.
5|Product is just as described. The slim & compact nature is great.
1|Terrible. HDD stopped working after a couple weeks. Lost everything. Find a different hard drive if you value your data
5|Amazing product. I bought it for the time machine on my Macbook Air. Completely satisfied!
5|Tiny and FAST, great backup drive for all my media! I just connect to my USB 3.0 laptop port and sync my media folders
5|Quiet, cool, fast, small size, built well, looks great. Just plug it into a USB port and it works. What's not to love about this drive? The only slight negative about this drive is the short USB cable - but I think that's the norm on all portable drives.
5|Great drive! Extremely thin and fast. A solid buy.
4|Excellent drive for the money, the only thing I'd change is the cable. It's not a common connector size for most portable hard drives. Some kind of ESATA connector that cables out to USB.
5|It's a great product. However, if you use an extension USB cable it doesn't work. So you're stuck physically thetered to your machine at 3 inches.
1|This backup drive is really bad. I had hoped for one that would let me save a folder or just individual files, much as I would use a flash drive. However, this drive is very slow despite my computer having a 3.0 port. The software is incomprehensible. It asks whether you want to backup continuously and once you agree, it does so without letting you change the plan. This drive replaces an old Western Digital that became corrupted. But I liked it and thought I was getting a similar item with the Seagate. Not so. Where the Western Digital would rapidly scan all unchanged files and backup only the ones that had changed, the Seagate backs up everything anew. Not only that, each backup is done separately rather than overwriting the old one. Consequently, it slowly backs up every file in a new location. After a few of these, it will fill the entire drive. The Western Digital was fast, maybe a minute to back up everything. The Seagate takes at least 30 minutes and maybe more, depending on the computer I'm backing up. I think I'll look for a good flash drive instead. Incidentally, two of my computers have XP Pro operating systems, and one computer has Windows 7. I use computers continuously in my work, mostly for manuscripts and images. I am not a computer expert nor do I download videos, music, etc, but I need something that will let me backup simply and fast. A drive like this Seagate ought to be fast, easy to use, and have simple software. This one doesn't!!
4|At the momet I can't give it five stars since I just barely bought it a few weeks ago ,I will give it a better rating once I've had it awhile
5|Works like it should, small, thin, and a massive storage space available. Now I have a place to put all my pictures and movies!
5|Great value, tech support for install was assume
5|very great,speed is fast.
5|This is a wonderful drive; small, lightweight and solid construction. As for the speed, I constantly get speeds upward of 54MB/s. That is fast enough for my needs right now, I was getting like 10MB/s or so. I didn't setup the backup app that came with the drive and I don't think I will since everything works fine without it. Had it for a short time (couple weeks) so that's all I can say but from what I have experienced so far I would recommended this drive if you need extra space to store your data.
5|Crazy how much storage is fits in the palm of my hand! It's sleek and powerful, love my seagate
5|Been buying from Seagate for years. This is my third External Hard Drive from them and it's everything I could have wanted. It stores everything I need and I've never had a problem with malfunction or deletion of content. I love how fast it syncs to your computer and how fast information can be taken from the hard drive or saved. Perfect <3 And I love the new color choices.
5|It's so small and yet has a ton of storage. I love it. It feeld sturdy enough even though it's made of plastic. Very happy with the purchase.
5|Work Great, Using it backup my NAS drive
5|Installed in my PS4 And it works great
5|Nice product. The price is right.
4|Great deal!
1|this item came broken in pieaces and realy late i want my refund this isnt fair
5|Recommended!
5|Does everything required silently in the background. Absolutely no issues.
5|Very simple. Plug it in. Click on back-up.
5|Just what I wanted.
4|Slim. Awesome design. Appreciated :)
5|Awesome
5|Great backup driver. Perfect for my MacBook pro.
5|great backup
5|Light, small and quiet. My first Seagate in many years and what a great way to usher them back into the rotation. Surprisingly fast for a laptop-sized 2TB
5|An excellent product purchase.
1|Purchased on Amazon.com. When I received the product, mobile share backup didn't work. Spent 2 hours with tech support of manufacturer who acknowledged that half of the users who purchase this product the mobile share doesn't work. Two different tech support people told me the same thing. Don't purchase this product if you expect to use the mobile share feature.
5|Works great. Nothing to download, connect and go.
5|fast and small!
5|This is nice and compact, fits easily in my briefcase without taking up much space. It has more then enough storage on it and it comes in bold colors. Nothing bad to say about this product.
5|Ordered this so I could remove the internal drive to add to a PS4. Worked perfectly and has the added advantage that I could take the 500Gig drive I removed from the PS4, put it back into the enclosure and use that as an external drive :)
5|It's great used it as a hard drive for my ps4 and it works great don't have to worry about replacing my hard drive there for a long time.
5|Lightweight, Compact and Easy To Use.
5|Plug and use; no setup issues - excellent external drive.
5|I've owned about 3 WD external hard drives,being clumsy with portable things they all pretty much dropped from a 2-4 INCH distance none of them hard falls, all the files were corrupt forever, waste of money but worst is lost all of my precious documents.. I bought one of these , I don't know how many times it has fallen on the floor from 4-5 FEET distance, literally flew across the room skidding on the floor, I always feared the worst, no matter what this drive has kept its integrity and the files were still intact corruption free. I know what my next brand of Hard drives will be , no doubt think Seagate!
5|Works great in my PS4.
5|Very durable, with a large capacity, all in a very small package. Great for moving files, whether at work or on vacation.
5|great product and service. just "plug and play" as they say.
2|I just bought a 4TB HDD, did go on the link provided by Seagate for NTFS formatting (http://ow.ly/hcVsi), I still can't use the mobile app to backup my photos to the HDD, same error "target drive isn't writable", The drive is writable for dragging and dropping content for anything other than the mobile. Can someone form Seagate contact me? I don't have time to sit on the phone and wait for support, my email is shoaib72@hotmail.com, if I don't receive an email within 3 days, I will return this drive for sure.
5|Fast, slim and light. Recommended
5|Small, simple and it only took a couple of days for the backup to save my laptop after I foolishly tried to install the OSX Yosemite Beta.
5|Excellent. Smaller that a cell phone , very high capacity and very fast.
5|The external hard drive does it's job. It backed up 300 GB of data from my Mac in less than four hours. It is quite fast and simple to use. It is both lightweight and small. Works perfectly with Time Machine. I would completely recommend this product to anyone looking to keep their data safe and secure.
1|My experience with this drive is the worst hardware experience I've ever had. I'm a power user, I do graphic design, website development and audio recording on my Macs. I've used a lot of external HDs over the years, and I've never run into a dud as bad as this one. I would say unless you're willing to use the Windows file system already installed on the drive by default, this drive is not compatible with Mac. I've gone through the Amazon return process with THREE of these drives. Each one had the same problems, and cost me hours of frustration. I've got a fairly new Mac Pro and a brand new MacBook Pro, and the first two drives I received would not even take a format on either computer, using the exact steps as shown on Seagate's website (In Disk Utility, create a new partition, select GUID format, etc.). Each of them repeatedly caused Disk Utility to crash, and eventually crashed my Macs. The first two drives turned into useless bricks as soon as I tried to format them. The third one took the formatting, and then I zeroed it out (used the secure erease feature whereby Disk Utility spends hours filling the HD with zeroes to make sure all data is erased). Everything seemed fine, and I then tried to reformat the disk again into three partitions, and everything crashed again. Okay, then, maybe I can't use more than one partition, I thought. Which sucks, but I can live with it. I reformatted as a single partition again, and then tried to actually use the disk. With Carbon Copy Cloner, I tried to copy a folder of files, and almost immediately it halted saying there were a lot of read/write errors on the HD. After CCC halted, I tried to delete some files that it said had been corrupted during the attempt to copy, and I could not remove them even using sudo in Terminal. So I reformatted the disk again. Same result. If I plug in a much older portable external HD, which connects via USB 2 and is only 500 GB (the reason I wanted this new HD), the same folder copies quickly and reliably over and over again from the same computer. My desktop external HDs likewise have no problems with any of this. I'm not willing to use the included Windows NTFS formatting that comes on this disk, nor the included app to manage it. I just wanted a good quality, portable, USB3 HD that I could format as I like (Mac OS Extended Journaled) and use for backups, file transfers and as additional storage to haul around with my new laptop and its tiny onboard SSD drive. I'm convinced after THREE of these drives that this is not a mere quality control issue. This piece of junk just isn't compatible. Or, maybe I'm just very unlucky and received three dud drives in a row. But the probability of that is pretty slim.
4|Easy to set up. I was not pleased with the software included and used a different software.
5|This is an incredible buy as it's $30-40 cheaper than just buying the hard drive and I believe is the only 2TB HDD that is 95mm and fits in an Intel NUC. Just pried it open like a sardine can, threw away the case, kept the drive. Check out my review in NetworkCameraCritic dot com for the i5 NUC and you'll see a picture of it there.
4|I do love my new external hard drive. It weighs almost nothing. It doesn't need a separate power source. Data isn't written onto the drive quite as quickly as I had hoped, but life will go on. The software is super easy to use. I just wish I had gotten the 4TB drive. It has been a great purchase.
5|Great product
5|Great
5|After a few weeks, the drive is still performing perfectly. It's not much larger than a cellphone, and in the eyes of someone who's been working with personal computers from the beginning, it's something of a miracle -- especially for the price.
1|1st time use started loading a large file (15 GB) and the drive would crap out about 5 min or so. Error message would appear and then autorun would reboot it and windows would try to reload it. It seemed it was cutting out in the middle of the data transfer, like losing power or the plug not connecting right and having a bad connection. Tried to mess with the cord to make sure it was plugged in on both sides to no avail. Cord did seemed crimped in a few places from the packing, I'm betting that's what caused it. Anyway, it didn't work so had to return, very frustrating.
5|Great product
5|Absolutely awesome little thing - convenient, stores a lot of data, and beautiful too :)!
5|GOOD!!
5|fast delivery and fast drive!
5|The included backup software is user friendly, the USB 3 is fast and I haven't had any problems at all. The automatic backup runs in the background and when I used the drive to transfer my data from an old computer to a new one, what took 4 days to transfer on the old machine with USB 2 took less than an hour on the new machine with USB 3. Well worth the money.
5|Cheapest way to get the m9t drive and the bonus of having a saga three external enclosure the drive performs great out of the case and in a ps4.
5|Fits perfectly in my purse along with other gadets The cable is not your average USB cable that's lying around the house, Do not lose it Works great!!
5|This was quick and intuitive to set up, and it works trouble-free with my MacBook Air.
5|The problem I have with Segate Products is they are too well engineered and manufactured with quality. Subsequently, the last a very long time. With the advances in these technologies year after year one wants the latest and greatest but I can't always justify replacing an item that is working well. I bought this Drive because my 10 yr old Seagate was crashing. I used it for my Time Machine Backup on my iMax. Although this drive is made mainly for portability it has its place with my stationary IMac. My wife has the same 1TB Backup Plus for her MacBook Pro.
1|After 3 days of trying, I am still trying to get it installed. Waiting still for support. I don't think it is suitable for XP.
5|Quality product and cheap
5|I love it~~~ this drive is well-made, slim, and looks great~ it's even a bit smaller than the 500G Seagate drive I bought earlier.
5|Great Product!
5|great product. great service.
5|Grate Product, small, light weight and fast. all that you need for you laptop and cell phone backup.
5|awesome product I love it
4|As expected... good service
5|Its amazing especially for mac users
1|I received my drive a couple of weeks ago, I had yet to use it as I was organizing my photos. Tonight I connected it and it recognized it, it asked me to install some drives that needed to restart. I restarted my computer and while it does make a noise signaling drive was connected it is nowhere to be found on my computer. I'm running Windows 8 and I do not know what to do, this wasn't a cheap purchase, my new computer is on the way and I need to transfer all my files. Help!!!!!
5|Great! Although I struggled with the installation stuff, I guess that's my issue. It's really handy to store data.
1|This product is trash. I have tried 2 different products and I can not make it work with my Mac. I have looked for instructions online and can not find how to install the software in Mac. Dont waste your time if you have apple products. The dashboard app doesn't work rather. Its completely trash.
5|Excellent! Works as it should. Not sure on the durability of it though.
4|Very good product, fast too. Only problem is the cable: it is proprietary, not the universal USB cable, meaning: Once you lose it, you cannot easily find a replacement.
5|Very easy to set up works perfectly.
5|excellent deals
5|I do love my new external hard drive. It weighs almost nothing. It doesn't need a separate power source. Data isn't written onto the drive quite as quickly as I had hoped, but life will go on. The software is super easy to use. I just wish I had gotten the 4TB drive. It has been a great purchase.
5|perfect little device. works like a charm for my MacBook Air Time Machine, and I also split the drive into two partitions (one for Time Machine, one for extra portable storage space). No errors, does not get hot, and remains silent.
3|I bought it as it seems to be easy to transfer files from mac to pc but even with installing extra software it's not as easy.
5|I received the product 2 days earlier than I thought I would. It was instinctive to get up and running. I only need it for the extra space for games that I play. The reading speed is spectacular and I would buy another one if I needed it! Great price too.
4|Not for me, ordered for co-worker and he hasn't complained. :-)
5|Loved it so much I had to purchase a second one. Its 2TB! At the time of purchase, it costs less than the raw drive equivalent.
5|This is an excellent product Very small yet durable external hard drive. Ideal for travelers or for those who don't want to have a cumbersome external hard drive on their desk. It works with Mac & Windows computers. It is sold in Apple stores so you know that they recommend the product (it's usually around $30 cheaper on Amazon than it is in stores).
5|Just what I wanted. It has a lot of memory and is very compact.
5|very good
5|3.0 fast and simple to use.
5|Great external hard drive
4|Very nice hdd. Tiny!
5|It is working fine for what I ordered it for.
4|The product and the supplier are good.
4|as with all backup hard drives, I have to learn the dynamics of getting it to backup the files. after i figured that out, i had no trouble. it also backs up social media files, which i appreciate, since i have hundreds of pictures on my site. one note--manual backups take up a lot of space as opposed to the compressed backup the program does when you use the backup feature.
5|Great for storage
5|Slimmest and most efficient portable HDD on the market. Compatibility with Time Machine on Mac is a huge plus. Quiet as a mouse and rarely gets hot enough to warrant worry. The 2TB is nothing to scoff at either!
5|This drive is so quiet and fast, you hardly notice any vibrations even put my fingers on it. All 12 of my WD drives are terriblly noisy, Toshiba drive is noisy, too.
5|Excellent shipping speed. Un-fussy packaging. I simply re-formatted the drive for my Mac before I started using it. Used it to remove 500+ pictures from my dropbox account - I needed the space there for work documents. Whole op took less than 15 seconds - fast!!
5|It's good!!
5|Amazing that so much storage can come in such a small bundle. No issues, works as promised
5|Given as a that was appreciated.
1|I plugged it in according to the instructions but all I got was a very tiny beep and a blinking light. I tried several USB3 ports, but same thing. I gave it to a colleague to try on his pc, but same issue. It seemed like a pretty good deal and Seagate is a historical name brand. Googling gave me no better options and Seagate's website was not much help either. I assume I had just gotten a bad one. I was finally able to open a troubleshooting guide that comes with the dashboard and it's suggestion was that my power supply may not be sending enough power through the USB port, so get a powered usb hub. I have to buy another piece of equipment for this one to work? And that information wasn't on Seagate's website? No thanks. I'll find a different product.
5|I like it and thank a lot for delivery on time
5|Excellent and easy to go
5|It's very useful!!!
5|Small and sleek. We really like it.
1|FAULTY PRODUCT - it is not working as described, files have also been deleted from the disk and I believe it needs reformatting. You just can't put things out there like they are "new" when in fact they are used and do not come with factory settings
5|It is small and works perfectly.
5|Fast delivery. Good value.
5|Perfect little back up drive A+
5|Well, pretty
5|Works great from day one.
1|Bought 3 months ago,The hard drive is not working anymore lost all data. This sucks! don't know what to do warranty expired. Now I am reviewing about Seagate it has all the problems had known before wouldn't have bought it. any suggestions!
5|excellent
4|Awesome.
4|Great
5|Lots of space, serves its purpose, no complaints here!
5|Ok!
5|Boy, did this save my life. The biggest, most important folder on my computer disappeared. Cannot figure out how I dumped a file with just shy of 500 gigs without noticing, but somehow I did... and there it was, on my Seagate. I would have had to find a whole new hobby... all my photo stuff... gone. I am going to add cloud storage to my Seagate.
5|Very straightforward back-up hard drive. Ignore their software and just drag and drop files and folders to it. Its most important feature: you can use a file format which is completely transparent between Windows and Mac. Plug into a Windows machine and drag material on to the drive, then plug into a Mac machine and the folders are right there, no problem. It's compact and hassle-free.
4|I was very satisfied with the Seagate product and I received it soon.
5|excellent
4|This drive met and probably exceeded my expectations. I used it to externally store my iphoto and itunes libraries, and I can barely notice they're on an external drive when working with them. In terms of portability, the drive is really slim and light as expected. The only reason for the 4 stars is the same issue I probably have with all portable external drives, the port where the cable connects in the drive seems really weak and you have to be very carefull when moving it around.
2|I bought this so I could transfer all my files (photos of my when my son was a newborn, important documents, music, etc) from my Macbook that I've had for nearly 8 years, and is about ready to die on me, to my Windows computer since in the description it claims "Use between PC and Mac computers without reformatting". However, after trying to install the Dashboard onto the Mac v. 10.5.8, it kept coming up with an error saying that it quit unexpectedly everytime I tried to open the .dmg file. Finally, I emailed Seagate's tech support and their agent told me this device must be reformatted as the backup device for Mac's Time Machine, which will consequentially erase the Windows compatibility. So, while it works great with my Windows and I will be keeping it to backup all my files (once I use a very time consuming way to transfer my files), I'm only giving it a couple stars because of the inaccurate description. Included, here is the text of my email from their support. *Dear Kaylee Anderson: Thank you for contacting Seagate Support. I understand your frustration. The Dashboard software, even in 10.6.8 or higher, does not backup a Mac. This drive is designed to be used with Time Machine if you want to backup the Mac. Time Machine comes with your Mac in 10.5 or later, so if you are using 10.5.8, it should work so long as you reformat the drive for Mac manually and set it as the Time Machine backup disk. Using the drive to backup a Mac does remove the Windows compatibility unfortunately. Seagate does not have any software that will work with this drive and a Mac older than 10.6.8, any software compatible with 10.7 or higher has to remove compatibility with earlier versions due to how Mac changed the operating system in 10.7 and later. To work with 10.5.8, you will need to manually reformat the drive. The first thing I would suggest doing is to unplug the drive, then plug it back in. This will break the connection to any running programs (often the installer will still try running even when not compatible, and will not let go until it is unplugged). Once this is done, follow the steps on this page to reformat the drive. Reformatting, erasing, or partitioning the drive will erase any data that is currently on the drive, so if you have copied data to it from any other computer, please back it up first, as Seagate cannot recover data lost without cost to you. http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/207851en Once the drive is formatted for Mac, you can then go to Apple > System Preferences > Time Machine Preferences and set it as the Backup Disk. It will automatically back up the computer to the drive at that point. For additional assistance, feel free to contact us at: www.seagate.com/about/contact-us/technical-support/ Regards, Zach Seagate Support*
4|This is great. I bought this for my ps4 and now i have 2TB. All you have to do if you want to use this as an internal hardrive is to take out the black plastic outside with a knife and take off the tape and then theres the actual 2tb
5|This was a worthwhile purchase. Easy enough to set up and use. Works great.
5|After replaced, the items are great.
1|Worked right out of the box...did a complete backup of my system without a hitch.
2|When I try to drag files into drive it rejects them. I have another Seagate Slim and it works perfectly. Why can't I get this one to work?
2|Will not include "Image" in backup
5|Working very well after one month of use. USB 3.0 is very fast.
5|I extracted this from its casing and installed it into my PS4, but may sure you convert this drive to FAT32 before extracting the drive. Great Product if you want a cheaper solution to a 2TB drive.
1|Absolute Worse product I have have had, I bought two Hard Drive for a Wildlife Adventure in Alaska Photographing Bears and other wildlife, upon my Arrival #1 Drive FAILED to be recognized, #2 worked fine until my arrival back home, with over 11,000 Priceless Wildlife Images from my trip of a Lifetime FAILED and LOST all my Images, luckily for me I backed up some of them prior to leaving Anchorage - This is not the First Seagate Hard drive to fail me, but you can bet your Life it will be the very last
3|worked with my Macbook Pro out of the box, no formatting was required. It is slow on USB 2.0.
5|Had to be reformatted for Mac! Works great, no problems!
5|No issues with this drive, and it is running a backup every night flawlessly. Smaller than my 300G drive.
5|good.
5|very light, easy to use no driver installation required. Excellent portable HDD.
2|Two drives died, both within two days of receipt. The drive suffers serious heat issues with prolonged use; it actually got hot enough to burn me after a night of copying data to it.
2|Bought this believing the write up that it would be a breeze to use between a Mac and PC. It is definitely not a breeze. If I have to erase and reformat to be able to write new files from my Mac, it isn't a breeze. If you make it look like it will be plug and play, it should be just that. Otherwise set it up as a difficult process and you won't upset consumers.
5|It seems the might be hit or miss. Mine is excellent. I hooked it up to my router and use it to share digits across my network.
5|Does the trick nicely!
5|Very small and thin, even smaller than what I thought. Works perfectly and it is very useful and easy to back up the hard drive of my laptop. It works with Seagate app to back up data from your smartphone. Unfortunately, given the standard restrictions (mainly for security) or when and how an app can access data and files stored in the phone, you need to leave the smartphone unlocked for the entire duration of the back-up.
5|Works amazing!
5|Excellent backup drive, fast and comes with good backup software.
2|Mine failed within months of buying it while it was plugged into the computer and I was using it! I send it in to be recovered, but they couldn't get anything off it. Definitely disappointed, and hoping the warranty will still be honored.
5|Incredibly small, fast, USB 3.0 drive at a fantastic price. I use this for my daily backup of my laptop and it is working extremely well for me.
5|Short & sweet - I have had several of these, every one has worked as advertised, is fast as blazes, and does a great job. No malfunctions, and unlike their "larger brothers" in dedicated powered enclosures these don't switch themselves off - which is why I moved to the portable external devices for Windows backup. Highly recommended!
5|This was a present for our daughter. She put all of her pictures and documents for when she is a teacher that she has accrued.
4|so far it is great, thanks
5|This is a great buy if you know little about operating external hard drives. It was so easy to back up my computer, cell phone data and transfer data from my old external hard drive. To top it off, it looks awesome!
1|The drive seemed to work OK as a Time Machine backup drive for a couple of weeks. Periodically it would fail to do a backup or fail to find the drive, even though it was attached and the light was on--apparently because of computer sleep settings. I changed those but the problem gradually kept happening more often, until it was multiple times a day. Now Time Machine can't find it, even though Disk Utility sees it. However, Disk Utility can neither mount it or unmount it, can't erase and reformat it--basically, it's inert. Seagate's own Dashboard software seems to have no function besides backing up mobile devices and social networks. So I've sent it back. Lots of people who gave it five stars, even Mac owners, clearly are doing fine with it, so perhaps I just got a bad drive. But I'm not taking my chances again.
1|Fist one failed after 5 months and got the replacement, 2nd one also within three months. Paying huge penalty and regretting for choosing Seagate. Trying another brand could be better option.
4|I have no problem recommending this to my customers. It's light, fast and reliable. Questions?
5|Excellent product...
3|At first I wanted to return this drive; it worked in fits and starts. it would kind of hiccup opening large photoshop files on it, and videos would play, then stop and start. Then I had the idea to replace the supplied flimsy USB 3.0 cable with a more robust cable from monoprice; now the drive works fine! So if you have the same issue, before returning it consider swapping out the cable and seeing if it solves your problems.
5|Love it!
5|nice
5|Great hardrive for a a ps4!
5|Was purchased as a replacement HDD for the new Sony PS4. The PS4 is issued with only a 500GB HDD. Now it has a 2TB. Highly recommend if you want a bigger PS4 to get this.
4|Would be better if it didn't use a proprietary connection on the drive - meaning you have to use the supplied cable.
5|I liked it
5|Excellent product!!! Very safe back up ware! So slim, so fast!
5|It was the perfect harddrive upgrade for my PS4. It arrived so fast and worked perfectly.
5|IT'S AWESOME !
5|it worked immediately. It is easy to configure and use with Mac. It is very sleek
5|Cheep.and good
5|Works great thx
1|I bought this drive one year ago and it just broke on me. Works good, breaks fast. Now I have to spend all day calling the company to try and recover all my important data I didn't backup. I would have rated this 3 stars but I am devastated that I lost all my work. Go with DigitalWestern
5|good price. Compatible with Mac and PC.
4|Love seagate products. I have had some LaCie fail on me. Great size, fast and efficient.
5|Great product. Slim as advertised. Very simple and easy to use. Plug and play.
5|Sleek, beautiful, and easy to use. I love this. It also doesn't have the same issues as the previous Seagate versions where the cables are really sensitive and would disconnect upon moving when using it with a Mac. I think their pricing is also very fair. I would recommend this to anyone, especially Mac users.
4|I had 3100 songs and 800 pics/videos to backup from my smartphone. It took a little over 3 hours so make sure you have a few hours to wait...It was well worth it. I was very happy with the way it organized and titled everything. It took a couple minutes to get started after installing Seagate onto my desktop but would recommend to others.
5|Worked right out the box on a win 7 machine. Also works when plugged into my usb hub. Would buy again.
4|Works good
5|USB 3.0 is amazing. Nice and sleak and slim. Love it and have had no problems. I store movies and media on this.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile... Seagate Every bit that is is supost to be.
5|Good size for the price and relatively small. Also no need for power cables.
5|Its perfect
5|Perfect!
5|Great product!!
5|Perfect as described and delivered as promised
5|These portable drives have come a long way in a few years. This one is no fuss, no muss to install and use on Win 7, Win 8. Much more versatile than flash drives when there is a lot of data to back up or move.
5|excellent product, good price, very easy to use and can format as ExFat for interchangeable downloads and viewing of mac and PC files
3|I purchased this hard drive to back up my mobile devices. However, the software to backup my mobile devices will not load properly on to my computer. My computer recognizes the hard drive( it shows up on my desktop) and I can drag files to the hard drive and store them. But, the mobile software will not work. Since I already with an external hard drive, I will be returning the Seagate Backup plus to Amazon.
2|It lasted three days, then wouldn't power up on three different systems. Returned for another, will change my rating if this lasts for much longer.
4|Good one! I like it.
5|Very pleased with this external back up. Great value for the money
4|The Product was Return do to Wrong Product was ordered.
5|Big power in a super compact format. Easy to use. I bought it so I could use it on both a PC and MAC. A good value for the size.
5|I really like the small size of this external hard drive.
3|The hard drive is functioning well but it has a dent neat the logo since I have received it. I have not complained since it is working fine. My friend has the same hard drive (same color) bought from best buy and it doesn't have the dent. Please let me know if you can still replace it with the new one
5|easy to set up, works great so far!
5|Nice potable device
5|Product works great, Customer service is the best.(Seagate)
5|Bought this to replace the stock hdd in my ps4. It is cheaper than the standalone hdd. It was easy to remove from the case, and now I have a case for the stock hdd.
5|Exactly what I wanted
5|This is really an amazingly compact drive--hard to believe it holds 2TB of data. I have another 2TB drive from Western Digital (also a fine drive) but wanted another 2TB drive to clone as a backup. This drive is perfect and extremely reasonably priced. I have a MacBook Pro and as with most other drives, this Seagate works flawlessly with OS-X Mavericks. All that is needed is to reformat using Disc Utility (Mac OS Extended (Journaled) and it was ready to go.
5|Works beautifully. You need to push a bit to get it to go into the port securely with a Mac but it works.
5|i love this item
5|small but big, stationary but fast, serious for work but smily and colorful, very happy to get it - Oz
5|Bought two. Took one CAREFULLY out of it's case, and put it into my Mac Mini, using the case for the original drive. Use the second as backup - great little drive, and fast! As has been mentioned, it's cheaper to buy this in a case than it is to buy it bare. Highly recommended.
5|This little hard drive is perfect. I am a Disc Jockey and I purchased it to replace my 8 year old WD hard drive. This is small, self powered and quick to respond. I've used it numerous time now and it has functioned without flaw.
5|like the slim body
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Drive. As advertised. 2TB is a ton of storage, just what I wanted. Drive does exactly what I need, hold a ton of files as my second backup, and be a different brand than my first backup. Speed is not so important to me. I couldn't say which of my backup drives is faster. Drive is smaller than my WD My Passport. Pay close attention to sizes when you buy your carry case.
5|It is SOLID
4|It very nice product for those who intend a huge amount of date storage. It is a nice to look and lightweight.
4|So far so good.
5|Nice product - meets my needs
5|Works great, no issues so far!
2|Couldn't get it to work with Macbook for storing pictures. They simply wouldn't transfer. Returned it.
4|I like it. very compact and quiet drive. My mac book air 2013 Blackmagic disk speed report 140M read/read speeds. It is about 5x slower than SSD drive (as expected).
5|Great handy compact high capacity hard drive at a cheap price! Perfect.
5|Faster and smaller than my original 2TB passport drive. Seems sturdy but I bought a case to better protect it when travelling.
5|It's been fine, no issues and very easy to setup. It is large which would be a pain if I had to carry it to other places
5|Worked great, fast backups.
4|For a Mac time machine backup. Easy setup, plug and play. Will also try to use with windows PC also, hoping it is compatible with multiple machines and OS on one unit at the same time.
5|Great, fast, and smaller than a pack of playing cards! Forget the bundled software (unless you are using a Mac, in which case the NTFS drivers are helpful.)
5|Great
5|Timely arrival, great for our purposes
1|I bought this over a year ago; it worked perfectly fine when I moved data from one laptop onto it, and then transferred that data to a second laptop. 14 months later I tried using it for the third time ever and it would not be recognized on two different Windows laptops (one 7, one 8). After plugging it into the laptops the device would just blink. Seeing as how it's been over year since the purchase I don't really have any options in terms of a warranty or return, and frankly I'm not interested in the hassle of experimenting with my computer to try to get it to work, or contacting customer service. This product gets 1 star for not doing what it's supposed to do, plain and simple. If I get it to work through some other means, it still gets 1 star; it's supposed to be a simple plug and use device and it just simply failed in that regard. Waste of money, and my data is probably lost forever. THANKS, SEAGATE!!
5|What can I say? It arrived on time, it works as advertised, doesn't do anything *not* advertised, like make noise or eat crackers in bed, and it's just about the size and weight mentioned in the specifications.
5|Super slim, light, portable, and easy to use. Now I never have to worry about losing my laptop etc.
5|Wonderful, stable for both MAC and PC.
5|Excellent
5|I have been using this backup for about six months. I seems to be doing a good job of backing up my data
5|Nice size, USB powered, and plenty fast enough as a backup drive.
5|I was told to load up on storage when it hit the magic price point of $1/GB. So I have two 500GB external drives that cost me $1000 way back when. This drive is a price/size miracle! Now I have to get more data to fill it up.
5|You can never have too many of these either
4|comfortable design I like best
5|Excellent
5|small but has the memory for Time Machine!
5|Small and reliable. If only it came in 4TB...
5|It's funny that I can just wait time and get more stuff for the same price, started off with a 500GB USB 2 drive, then a 500GB USB 3 drive and now this thing. Also since it's USB powered it's easy to use when traveling or using a Surface 3.
5|So happy with my purchase. Great product. I have used both Western Digital and Seagate earlier and have faced connection issues numerous times with WD hard drive on connecting it to laptop. I have never faced such problems with Seagate. As soon as I plug in Seagate's hard drive, my laptop instantly recognizes it. I would recommend this product to everyone. Solid build quality and awesome transfer speeds.
4|Very slim. Its awesome to carry along with my tablet and have all the data required to store in it.
5|Great light weight drive and it's priced right!
5|I'm using this as a back up for movies on my dvr
5|Love it
5|Works perfect
1|bought it withe the intention to have with me when I travel, and the first day upon installation it stopped responding. I cant send it for replacement because I traveled auto of the country. It is very beautiful but very fragile....
5|Doing an excellent job, fast and large enough for all our backup needs! We even bought the data warrenty plan for extra piece of mind. We bought two in fact, one for me and one for hubby.
5|This device is fantastic. Fast, USB 3.0 and small. I have it in my carry bag for ease of use.
3|Till now its working good.
4|Very good
5|Used it to back up a failing hard drive. So far the unit has worked very well. Am using it as an external backup for new computer. So far I have no complaints about the Seagate.
5|A very well made product. Its incredibly slim and pretty fast. However, the color of the front cover is not as rich as it appears on the website. While this may not be a deal breaker, i dd find it less than stellar. On the performance front, I have had no issues with the device, and best of all since both WD and seagate use the same kind of cables, i can use them interchangeably with my WD drive as well
4|Great drive!! totally satisfied.
5|work great and fast transfer....... perfect for mac.
5|OMG I love my "Red Hot" (I've named it) - so compact and easy to use. I've turned so many people on to these. I've given one as a gift and plan to give another as a gift for Christmas. Everybody should own one to back up their files. Who can trust the cloud? Trust Seagate!!!!
4|I just started to use this drive and I am very happy with it.
5|Love it! Works great to transfer from my HP to my Mac and the speed is just outstanding!!!
5|I have soooo many HDD backup drives. They come in handy.
5|One heck of a hard-drive! :) I liked the style at first sight. It's a bit intimidating, too :) I liked the size, smaller than I thought it would be. It's stylish and the color red looks professional...like some serious gadget ...someone had to ask me, what is that? hehehe
5|Excellent Hard Drive! And yes, the m9t functions perfectly fine on the PlayStation 4.
5|This is my absolute favorite. Simple.
5|Does what it said it will, large capacity and plug and play, very satisfied.
5|Works great, very small and tons of space. Also it's super quiet.
5|Great deal from Amazon consolidated alot of thumb drive information onto this one device. Very useful and easy to use.
5|excellent condition
5|I have only had this product for a short time, but so far it works great. I needed it to read and write to both mac and windows PC, which it does perfectly.
5|Works fine, would buy again. With the USB output jack was removable to reveal the SATA & power plugs like another slim seagate external hard disk I have, but it does what it does.
5|Really nice, technology had made memory much smaller and cheaper. Seagate has always been a great buy for me
5|:)
5|So wonderfully small to have such a large capacity!
5|Good product. Good service.
5|Great combination of speed and high capacity.
5|Bought four of these Seagate Backup Plus Slim, USB-3, 2-TB portable external HDs, from Amazon. Reformatted all four while still in their cases. Bought two, 2nd hard drive caddies; a 9mm and 12 mm., to replace the optical drives. Carefully took the 9mm Samsung Spinpoint 2TB HDs out of the Seagate portable cases. (Details below) Cloned & replaced the stock 17" Toshiba HD to one of these 2-TB drives. Placed another 2-TB drive into the 12mm caddy, and replaced the optical drive in my Toshiba laptop. & viola 4-TB laptop! Did exactly the same thing to my 15" Acer laptop using the 9mm caddy. Both caddys worked as expected, and all 4 HDs were recognized by the laptops. Now both laptops have 4-TB each! Renamed the drives; "2 TB (C)" & "2 TB Movies (M)" Which by the way are practically full! Now; To remove the HDs from the cases, reformat first! Then just use a sharp pocket knife to separate the top aluminum cover, being careful not to cut yourself. Then remove the HD and the plug-in interface together as one unit. Then carefully remove the foil tape from the HD and interface. Then gently pull the interface from the HD. Now you can use the case with any old laptop HD by plugging the interface in the HD, and placing back into the case. Maybe with a rubberband around it to hold it together. Now this Samsung is designed to be pwd by only one USB port. But it only has one USB at the other end. Which is fine for laptops, Desktop computers and USB-3 Devices that have enough power. But if you're going to plug it into a Xbox, PlayStation or Wii you may not have a enough power. Or especially into a aftermarket car stereo USB input. I highly recommend you buy a Y-cable to connect this to your device. The 2-connector Y-design allows you to power the ext HD from 2 USB ports. Great for Wii-U or other devices with low power output USB ports. It's only three bucks here at Amazon. Since I took the 2 TB hard drive out of the case and put it in my laptop, I put the old laptop 1 TB hard drive into the case which I'm sure takes more power than the Samsung 2TB. I believe it took about .85 watts, and most USB-2 ports only deliver a half a watt at best! Not worth the risk of burning out your external hard drive due to lack of power! Now a good question would be what do you do if you only have one USB input port? Well another reviewer already answered that; he plugs in the second USB into a 110v cellphone charger power cube providing 5 volts, or a cigarette lighter USB port to power the second cable. Works like a charm! Priceless!
4|Just got this Seagate Backup Drive, mainly for Time Machine backup for my Mac (since my LaCie has decided to not function again). I'm a little disappointed in that the description indicated the capability of using for both my Mac and Windows computers. Now I learn that if it is to be used for Time Machine it will not work for Windows as Time Machine erases the disk, removing all the data needed for Windows. Says it will work for transferring files/photos etc back and forth between computers, just not for TM backup AND Windows use. So, I am using it for the Mac Time Machine and if it works well I will order another for backing up my Windows computer. I had zero problems setting it up and getting TM to start backing up, within a short few minutes of opening the box. No problem with software, like some have mentioned, but maybe that was when using it for switching between computers. I like that it is so compact (just under 3"X4.5"), the LaCie is a big heavy unit - from several years ago. Yep, technology keeps advancing and I'm struggling to keep up but love when I discover new stuff!
1|Drive failed after 2 months and one use. Device is replaceable under warranty, but there is a charge for Seagate to recover the data. Why oh why would I EVER want to put data on such a faulty product? Untrustworthy: are they selling a data recovery service or a portable backup device. Don't buy!
4|Fit the drive well. Sturdy.
4|I honestly can't believe how tiny space is getting these days. And how cheap! When I bought my first computer (after working on my dad's fishing boat all summer) the 250 MB hard drive that came with it was considered enormous (it was 1992 after all). However, now this beautiful slim brick can hold a terabyte and barely take up any space in my laptop case. All of a sudden my tiny ultrabook as more space than many desktop towers. With USB3 the data access is so fast you don't know it's external. This is a great purchase for anyone needing a little extra space. I do wish the cable was a tad longer to accomodate non-desk seating positions with laptops.
5|Got this to my MAC to use with Time Machine. Installed and formatted and runs seamlessly.
3|Some issues with this on my desktop. Bought the 4 TB model for use as a backup device. Plugged it into the front USB port and my PC would not display the addition of the drive in Windows Explorer. Thought it might have been defective, but, tried it on my laptop and it worked. I had the thought it wasn't getting enough power on my desktop, so, plugged it into the USB ports in back which are directly attached to the motherboard. Drive was recognized and 100% at that time. My front USB ports are working, it just seems they can't supply enough power to the drive. The motherboard is a fairly high-end model, so, if I'm having this problem, expect others may as well...
1|Amazon is great they are working on helping with this crap hard drive.. seagate how ever sucks in any type of help, I have been a computer engineer for about 20 years and knew better then to work with seagate, I have only had this hard drive for about 6 weeks and it stopped working, I had transferred very important info on it as a storage device and seagate wants 400.00 to do a data recovery on top of expecting me to pay 9.00 for shipping to return the hard drive. If I would have had the drive for a reasonable amount of time and it crashed , I would understand, But only having it 6 weeks, They should be more then happy to take care of this for me.. Bottom line STAY AWAY FROM SEAGATE , they are a terrible company with bad products ..
5|Great product
5|Works great
3|It has only 700 GB, not 1 TB as the manufacture claimed. I am disappointed.
5|Very pleased with purchase!
5|Great product. Great price. thin and light with the right size cable
5|Great
1|I bought this drive based on all of the positive reviews, but the drive failed just over a few months. I do not know exactly when it failed since it was used as external media storage for a retasked laptop. I only noticed the failure when I went to watch a movie and the drive did not show up. It's also when I heard a beeping coming from the drive. Knowing that these types of drives consist a laptop hard drive with a sata to usb interface board, I cracked open the case in hopes of connecting the drive to my sata reader and salvage the media on there. Tough luck for me, Seagate used two 2TB drives in what I'm assuming was a RAID 0 configuration. Because of this, I am currently unable to recover any files from either drive, but am still exploring other options.
5|good
3|Pretty much what I expected. Time will tell how reliable it is. The one benefit that I was somewhat surprised about was its size - smaller than I thought it would be. I am using it on a Lenovo X230 laptop which has limited storage for my media. I velcro it to the lid and don't even know it's there.
5|It was everything it was advertised to be. Of course, unless you are experienced in using backup devices I recommend you go on-line and download the PDF User Guide. With it set up and implementation is a breeze..
5|I've hat this for about a month. No issues. It seems to be pretty durable. I'm rough on my electronics and this seems to be holding up. I have had other Seagate drives and haven't ever had an issue. I have had one HDD that's 8 years old and still works great.
5|So small yet fits so much.
5|good
5|Very compact, works well with TabloTV
4|Just good this in a week now and it hqs been doing fyn
3|I have the windows version, swapping between mac and windows caused some issues and their was this time I did not eject it and windows would not read the drive AT ALL, it said it needed to format. Plugging it into my mac just did not show any files!!!. To fix this you have to run a disk repair on the mac which works like a windows scan. So yeah in all the drive is decent just iffy if you have a PC and MAC..
5|Seems to be working great, saving all my important information and files. Plenty of room too.
5|This is one beautiful little drive. I love that the LED indicator isn't too distracting; it isn't too bright and pulses slightly with activity instead of blinking. The drive is VERY quiet. It does get a bit warm with heavy use, but not warm enough to cause any concern. Performance seems on par with other portable external drives.
5|So good, my son has borrowed it.
5|Fantastic, used Seagate for my backup hd for 8 years now and never failed.
5|Perfect
5|Nice n compact
5|Works well with no issues. I use it to do backups on my Windows laptop and transfer files between the Windows computer and my Apple desk top.
5|Wxcellent
3|Love the look!
5|Compact and extremely fast in an attractive package.
5|This drive works perfectly, and only needs one USB port.
5|Used this drive to upgrade my PlayStation 4 to 2TB. The exact drive inside this device currently sells for $30 MORE than this USB drive. Takes about 2 minutes to disassemble this drive. 2 minutes of work will save you some $$$.
5|Easy to use and worth the price. This item is small so it's portable and can be stored in a safe without taking up much space.
5|Small and portable and works with my mac. Easy to use and setup.
5|Love the portable design and the 1TB space. So I bought another one. :-)
3|Nice portable hard drive. Small, well built in nice metal case. The only thing I do not like is that it has a proprietary cable to attach to the PC. If you lose that little cable, as does happen on small things when one travels, you are out of luck. I assume a replacement cable can be found, but I do not get why Seagate chose to use something that is not "off the shelf" as a connector. If I had been aware of this prior to purchase I would have declined. With that said, it performs flawlessly and looks great.
5|Excellent performance.
5|I bought this to upgrade my PS4 hard drive and it works perfectly!
5|Very good!!!
5|Super thin portable drive compared to what I have had in the past. I can’t believe that they can make a drive feel so sturdy and still be so thin. I was very impressed with the speed when transferring all of my backups from an older failing drive. I would definitely recommend this drive unless you are looking for something that can take physical abuse in hazardous environments.
4|An update: Sadly, I did lean back the other day in my chair, with my laptop, and overlooked that this was attached! It slipped off the desk, dangled by the USB cable, and then stopped working! Now makes beeps, then goes quiet. There are some great videos on the web that show how to take this apart. Sure enough, the head was stuck, but freeing that up has not helped. Now, it just clicks. I wonder if there are other small, external drives that are more fall resistant. I remember reading that the hard drives inside Macs automatically lift the head (or park it) when they fall… that'd be great to have in an external HD. I did notice that, unlike some of the videos of the HD, this had no side bumpers inside the case and no side screws. Assembly line issue? Or, newer design? In any event, as I noted in my original review, the drive is slim, lightweight, and fast-- and a tad noisy. I'm not taking off a star for this (operator error! :-) ), but it's worth highlighting how short the cable is and how smart it is to unplug it after backing up with it! Original review: This is a very fast external drive. It's also small (3" x 4 ½" by '"), making it quite portable (easily "tossed" into a briefcase or backpack). The blue color is great looking. If you're getting more than one of these (as I did) be sure to get different colors, so you can easily tell which is which, especially for a backup rotation. (I got blue and black. The black is fine, but the blue, special, deep and rich.) On the downside, there is a noticeable noise when it's in operation--a combination of swooshing and a higher pitch. I've had other external drives whose noise is virtually undetectable. If your hearing is average or you are insensitive to noises, it's likely no big deal. (Or, if you work in an office or like having music on, those should drown this out.) However, if you have good hearing, are sensitive to noises, and work in a quiet environment, it is a distraction. The USB cord is also short, meaning that the drive is right beside you and your ears (well, at least one of them!). I also could see music aficionados not liking the noise in the background of the songs or classical music they are listening to! I'm in the good hearing, prefer quiet group, but the drive is fast enough (updating backups of, say, 1 gb in about 7 minutes) that it's too bad a problem. One can leave the room or try to ignore it! OTOH, watch out! That short USB cord means that when you lean back in your chair with your laptop, you will likely pull the drive off your desktop! The only solution is to religiously unplug the drive after it finishes its backup.
5|Works very well
1|I just received my 4TB Backup Fast drive and started copying files over from my other USB3 drives. I noticed the performance is rather slow and downloaded Black Magic to check the new drive's speed - it consistently barely reach 100mb/s! Also it got very hot within an hour and I am afraid it will die soon. I used the Dashboard install for Mac to reformat this drive for Mac use only. My rMBP is running OS X Mavericks. Is this unit defective? I bought it after reading all the glowing reviews here and very disappointed at how this drive actually performs.
5|:)
5|A high quality, high capacity, portable external hard drive useful for when I travel and need access to more docs
5|works like a charm....
5|Reliable hard drive. 1tb should hold everything with no problem. I like this brand as it is reliable.
5|We just love this new Seagate 1TB External Hard Drive. It is easy to use and compatible with our equipment. It is portable so we can take it to our sons house and share pictures with him and his family. We are able to store tons of pictures of our grandchildren on it. I recommend this portable hard drive to anyone who needs to store lots of things even if just for backup purposes.
5|Excellent product, it was working so cool. It was so slim, and nice. I really recommend it.
5|simple and Accepablr
5|Works great for me
5|perfect
1|Not much to tell. Drive looks and ran fine until it utterly failed after 2 months of light duty usage. I'm in the position where I cannot return it for replacement due to security concerns. This drive was used to backup sensitive data so a failure (inability to read) probably means if platter is intact, data is still there (I have original data, have to backup to another drive now). I've tired everything, no luck, Appears electronics failed or hiccupped although I ran a nice recovery utility on it (GetBackData) and saw a few file entries on it, but all 0 bytes and some folders that were inaccessible. Apparently partition table was destroyed along with other important system related data. I had utilized about half of the 2TB. Pretty angry that I threw away $120 for a 2-month life drive.
5|small and cute. good performance
5|Great back-up for my MAC!
5|As good as described.
5|Definitely works inside a PS4!!! 2.5" 9.5mm 2TB
4|This backup drive is hard to beat for the money. It comes with everything you need (a short USB cable). For the Mac it was plug and play as usual. It writes data pretty fast, all things considered. At the end of the day this thing gets the job done and is everything it promised to be. If you are in need of a couple of extra TB or a compact backup, this thing will probably do just fine.
5|I finally was able to back up all the precious family photos I've been carrying on my iPhone and my ASUS Notebook (which I didn't really trust to last). Peace of mind is a beautiful thing. To complete my safety net, I may upload all my photos online as well. But this little gem is small, and works great!
5|Remove the HDD from the enclosure and put in your PS4. Take the original PS4 drive and put into the enclosure and attach that to your Xbox One. Works great!
5|It doesn't always recognize it when it's plugged into many different USB 3.0 ports the first time. But it works good once it is recognized.
5|Exactly what I was looking for in a HD.
5|Good HHD for the price
4|Works fine...
5|Handiest external drive of the more than a dozen I have and have had over the years. USB powered and small size and large capacity at a reasonable price make it extremely convenient.
5|Love the compact design.
5|Perfect, works without any issues, prompt delivery, have already advised people to make the same purchase.
5|Love it so far so slim and small i can pack so much on here very happy with it. I havent played with the other features yet will update when i do
5|Lots of space even after backing up all of my files. Movies, music, music-videos photos and etc....
5|its good
1|At first this appears to be a nice drive. It's sleek, compact, and holds a ton of data. DO NOT GET THIS DRIVE. After having it for less than 3 months, it just stopped working. It no longer spun when I plugged it in and all I heard was rapid, high pitched beeps. I called up Seagate and they were pretty good about sending out a replacement free of charge. Thankfully, I had all my data backed up elsewhere. I got the replacement, used it for about 3 months - and bam. It's stopped working (same no spin, high beeps). This is completely unacceptable for a hard drive. Your data is absolutely NOT safe if it is stored on this drive. Since most of us buy these to keep our data safe, this is just a terrible product. I am so mad right now. This is unacceptable. I'm going to contact them for a refund. I'll post an update on how that goes. *****UPDATE***** While Seagate commented below that they opened a file under my username, none of the agents I spoke to could find it. In fact, the first representative I spoke with was super obnoxious and told me the drive kept failing because I played movies directly from the drive! Hung up with him and called back. Second agent was much nicer, agreed the drive shouldn't fail because you play movies directly from it, and switched this drive for a different model drive. I haven't yet used the new drive, but am happy Seagate tried to "make this right." Hopefully the new drive will work and I won't lose all my data for a third time. I'm not changing the star rating because this drive IS terrible, and you shouldn't buy it. That said, they made the best out of a bad situation.
5|Wow. Tons of storage. Fast. Slim. Light weight. Totally love it.
5|Should have bought a portable years go!
5|Excellent product, fast shipment! Very light and small, perfect for travellers.
4|Excellent!
5|Great and easy to setup
4|The Seagate Momentus SpinPoint Samsung Seagate Momentus SpinPoint ST2000LM003 2TB 2.5" SATA Notebook Hard Drive 9.5MM hard drives are found in these following models: 1. Seagate Expansion 2TB USB 3.0 Portable External Hard Drive (STBX2000401) ; AND 2. Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (Silver) STDR2000101; These drives differ in price primarily due to its software and warranty. (Prices are quoted at the time of this review) STBX2000401 2TB is the cheapest because it's a bare backup drive w/a 1-year warranty (~$89). STDR2000101 2TB is more expensive due to its backup software w/a 2-year warranty (~$99). ST2000LM003 2TB is the most expensive being a stand-alone drive w/a 2-year warranty (~$127). I don't know if the sata-to-USB circuit board of the STBX2000401 and the STDR2000101 are any different. They look the same to me. Furthermore, I do not believe the "quality" of aforementioned ST2000LM003 drives differ among those listed above. Why would you purchase the more expensive stand-alone ST2000LM003 over the STDR2000101 even though they both hold the same drive with the same 2-yr warranty? Well because most purchasers aren't savvy enough to remove the drive in the STDR2000101 from its external cover. Moreover, this will likely void your warranty as you would have to remove the half-tamper proof aluminum tape which holds the sata-to-USB circuit board to the hard drive. For folks who plan to extract the drive from its external cover, the warranty issue will be the predominant factor in making this purchase. NOTE: I got the STBX2000401 and extracted the bare drive. Crossing my fingers that the drive will last more than a year to justify my decision to remove it. I've been running this drive for 1 month, and so far so good. I am using this in my Mini-itx build as a SATA secondary drive.
5|Awesome
5|It stores all of my files and is easy to retrieve as well as download.
5|Awesome little drive.
5|Easy to set up.
5|Its very light-weighted for 1TB. I love it
5|Good to have to back up hard drives.
5|very good. nice little backup
4|Fabulous! It is compact, modern and convenient. So easy to back up your pc and mobile phone.
5|Highly recommend
5|lots of storage space and easy to use
5|Works great
4|This drive was swapped out with the 500gb in my PS4 and with the world heading towards digital will help keep my console viable in that future.
5|Perfect compatible with Mac and PC!!!!
5|Very pleased with the delivery time and product as a whole.
5|Good one..
1|I lost everything all of my current and future work, and stuff I had saved for years on this drive. I trusted seagate as I had always found their drives to be excellent. SO I bought this one, transferred all my work, software and important data to this from an old drive because I wanted more storage and I was able to access it it for about a week. It was slow, but I thought with a 2 TB drive, that was expected. Then one day, nothing... "drive is corrupt" and "needs to be fixed". I am going to have to have someone pull the data off IF they can. So donnt use this if you value your data or you might end up like me!
5|excellent drive and well worth the money
5|I love it, is fast, beautiful, slim, and small, perfect price!
5|light and fast
1|Where to start? I got a great deal on this very portable drive and had high expectations. The one feature that drew me to the purchase was the ability to store my iPhone 5 photos and videos in one place. There are three requirements to move photos and videos to the drive: a wi-fi connection; the Seagate Dashboard; and the iPhone app. Check, check and check. The Dashboard was easy to install (it was included on the drive itself) as was the Seagate Backup app on the phone. I set up my account on both my PC and phone, then set up a backup plan on the app. Easy. I made my first transfer from my phone to the drive within a half an hour of opening the packaging. A few days later, I went to transfer more photos and videos, and the app gave me "Failed to detect drive" message. What the what? Nothing had changed. Same wi-fi, same backup plan and same PC. Literally NOTHING changed. But I kept getting the message although I can see the device in My Computer, and my wi-fi router shows the drive connected. So I uninstalled the Dashboard and downloaded another copy directly off of Seagate's website. I deleted the app off of the phone and went to work to reinstall the file from the website and reinstall the app on my phone. Finger's crossed. I set up the Dashboard and the app and then got the dreaded "Failed to detect drive." I now have a perfectly working slim portable hard drive that fails to do the one thing I purchased it for - effortless backup of my iPhone pictures and videos. My advice? Stay away if you want the promised convenience of wi-fi transfers from iPhone to drive. Frustrating experience, to say the least
5|This portable hard drive is the best investment I've ever made, great for backing up all of your programs and files with plenty of storage left over.
1|Had this drive for less than 3 months and it failed. After several hours on the phone with Seagate, no progress was made save for them offering to recover my data at $499 bucks. Took the drive to a local computer guy and who got into the drive and saw that it was a complete fail and not able to recover any data. Seagate admitted on the phone that it is easy to break the read/write arm on the drive itself and that once that's done there isn't much left to do. Seems stupid to have that problem in a portable drive. Won't be purchasing anything from Seagate again. Terrible drive. Terrible customer service.
5|Great item
2|Much tougher to sync than it should be.
5|Great drive and wonderful price.
5|very good
5|I've had this drive for about a month. It has been working great. Definitely a good 1TB drive. I hope it continues to work this well for a long time.
5|I have a MacBook and it was simple as pie. I had no problem and it works great. It's small and sleek, and I can't believe I didn't get it sooner - works great with Time Machine.
5|Removed it from the box pluged it in and away we went, Best product on the market. LOVE IT
4|That's all that needs to be said. After reading some other reviews on this, I just don't know what to say. Those people must realize that these things aren't meant to be plugged in 24/7 so why they are all complaining that it's 'not good enough' or 'cant hold up' is just baffling to me. I've got well over half of mine full of tons of shows and that's well over a thousand hours of tv and movies. If you need a portable hard drive to store your stuff, then Seagate is just perfect for it in my opinion.
4|Looking good.. available space 1.81TB NTFS 4KB Sequential Writing 127MBps.. Sequential reading 132MBps.. tested with 43GB bluray file..
1|I bought this drive to take my music collection (some 300 GB) with me when I went to study abroad. Unfortunately this drive constantly requires being reformatting, completely defeating ANY purpose for the drive. It takes hours to copy my information to the drive, then when I plug it in to my laptop, my laptop insists that the drive needs to be formatted. When I take the drive back to my originally computer, it also says it has to be formatted. Further, the transfer speeds were about 10X SLOWER when I used a USB 3.0 port on my desktop, as opposed to the normal USB 2.0 ports. Seems more than fishy to me.
1|It works in the case provided. Ok fine, thats how most folks will use this. I opened the case up, removed the drive and put it in my MBP 17" in a drive sled that replaced the optical drive. the original 750g system drive worked fine here, but it was a bit old and I needed more space. This drive instead, when put under I/O load, simply shuts down. WTF ? If you start a large copy to it, it simply shuts down. completely not acceptable. I did work ok in the case it came with. It seems the USB3-> SATA adapter board that mounts to it does some power management to keep the drive going when it should be powered up. When used on the direct mobo SATA controller in the MBP, it simply shuts off. the only way to get it back up is to do a complete power down and up which is BS. so I guess I'm doomed to put it back in the USB3 case it came in and where it seemed to work ok. so do NOT buy this to save $20 over the bare drive equivalent because there is something in the drive firmware thats different between the 2. since the portable drive is useless as a direct install, the bad rating because this is the first ever drive of many hundred I've handled that had this sort of bizarre problem
5|Love it. Hope it came with a pouch though.
4|Good, but case like metal is plastic...I'm disappoint..
5|These drives are wonderful for backing up your personal files, pictures, or backing up your entire system. Very portable for moving around the house or on the go. Excellent product. I recommend them.
5|Excellent product, the seller is very efficient.
5|Great compact he. I only wish it had internal battery so it could be used with my kindle without needing my desktop.
5|good product
5|exactly what i needed and a big step up from my previous (with very dated technology) external hard drive
1|It was not clear that in order to use it with a mac, you had to go through a time capsule. Just wanted a simple back up system. This was not it.
5|I need an app on the phone or tablet to really use it right. you can find what your looking for on it so easier that way. good product quick back time also cloud storage included 5gb I think but if you want more its real easy to get you just pay for it
5|Great device! Transfers files fast. Small and easy to store in your laptop/bookbag.
5|This was a Kindle Fire special that I couldn't pass up for $20. It is small enough that I can put it into my shirt packet yet it is a 1 Tb device, perfect for portable backups.
5|I just couldn't pass this deal up! It's great knowing that I now have something that I can back all my pictures and important paperwork up on without running out of space!
5|Thin, light great value!
5|Practical and very portable. Excellent for on the go people.
5|Love It! Perfect Upgrade for the Ps4
5|worthy
5|very good!
5|Bought this as a replacement for my last Ex Drive because it crashed on me. That one was bulky & inconvenient with 2 cords at weird angles & it was huge & heavy, but this one is excellent. The small size, light weight, & single short cord makes for much easier usage & portability with the same huge memory. Once installed it works great & the lack of a 2nd power cord you need to plug in is excellent. No complaints & I will definitely buy again :D!
5|I have 5 HDD and all are Seagate. I love the made and I love these new ones more. They are very compact. Definitely the best HDD I have ever had.
5|SEAGATE is the best. 'Nuff said. Note that the "Backup Plus" drives have a two year warranty, and the regular Seagate backup drive only has a six month warranty. That says it all right there. Spend a tiny bit more and know that your drive is likely to be much more reliable and confidence inspiring. 2 TB means I probably won't run out of room for my photos for another ten years.
4|Very happy with this product.
4|Compact with lots of space for saving my files. Used with my PC, it's fine, but if I were to use it on my Mac, it sometimes takes a little fiddling with the USB connection to be recognized.
5|Excellent backup
5|GOOD SLIM
5|Work great. Fast and I love not having to plug in a power adapter to a wall.
4|I bought the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External drive to back up my new laptop that executes Windows 8.1. The first complete backup takes quite a while, but incremental backups after that are fast. The drive is small enough and rugged enough that I carry it in my computer bag everywhere I go, and I use it regularly. So far, I have not had to restore my laptop's software. A couple of small complaints that I have with the product are: (1) even though it is automatically detected, and I can access files on it immediately, it doesn't automatically begin backing up files until I manually execute the Seagate Dashboard and click on "PC Backup." I would prefer it to automatically fire up and let me know it's backing up my files or at the very least to prompt me to initiate backups; and (2) it passes me off to Windows Explorer to view files on the disk. It would have been better if the Seagate Dashboard had provided an easier to use interface for that purpose.
5|Seagate did a magnificent design. Looks and feels tough and elegant. This external drive is just a couple of mm bigger than the original internal drive it self. Provide a sufficient speed (100MB/s) via USB3. Very good companion with Apple Mac products. I'm using it for Time Machine and other storage requirements. You may think it's become hotter than previous generation, actually not. Internal drive temperatures are same. Reason is the enclosure itself. Disk transfers the heat to enclosure due to touch conditions inside and metal cover. Previous generation enclosure was complete plastic with airlocks inside. So it's completely normal.
5|Best hard drive ever.
4|So far so good.
5|Very nice, I have get the M9T 2Tb 9.5mm 2.5" driver out, and it is running well in my NAS. I am trying to re-assembly it with one of my 500G 2.5" SSD. will see the result soon. :)
5|Light and thin, nice portable external hard dirve.
4|really good product
3|It fine just don't make it fall from you because that are the end of it I recommend by silicon power
5|AWESOME! I works great. No problems at all so far. Good price too.
5|unbelievable speed and space
5|It is very nice to have a USB-3 interface on a device that is as small as this is that holds so much data. My wife uses it to backup data from her computer and I add mine as well. Whenever we travel, we take the disk with us as it fits nicely in my wife's purse. Great purchase...
5|This is my second purchase of this product, not because the first one failed, but because I liked it so much. I recommend this to anyone looking for an external 1TB drive. It is very compact and light. The included software was unnecessary, in my opinion.
5|Amazing capacity drive. I installed this in a MacBook Pro 17 inch, Late 2011 laptop as the primary (and only) drive. The drive comes with a rather cheap plastic enclosure, no screws. The enclosure is held together by small plastic tabs and (believe it or not) tape, but the drive itself is high quality. The drive will probably be released by Seagate to OEM manufacturers in the very near future, but you can get one now! The drive works perfectly fine as an external backup drive (Seagate's intent), but it also works great as an internal drive. The drive is 9.5 mm thick and so should work with practically any laptop (PC or Mac). Specifically, it will work with all MacBook Pro's which comes with a DVD drive. The newest Mac laptops (MacBook Air, etc.) that do not come with a DVD drive are probably too thin for a 9.5mm drive. In any case, they come with an SSD drive, so you would want to use this drive as an external drive. There is a Youtube video that shows how to get the enclosure open without tearing it up. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6eV3pEXKgo If you take your time and be gentle, you can avoid tearing up the enclosure and so end up with a temporary enclosure that can be used for other drives (I would not use it an a permanent enclose, because it really doesn't hold itself shut after the first opening). For MacBook Pro users, it is easiest to swap old for new drives if you use Apple's reinstall process on the new drive first while it is in the enclosure, choosing to "reinstall" OSX onto the new drive before swapping the drives around. Some trivia, back in 1986 this amount of storage in a hard drive would have cost in excess of $34 million had it been available as a single unit (it was not).
4|Nice, small and compact. Easy to use especially for me as working professional mother of 2 childern with average computer skills.
5|Fast shipping, great price. Wonderful deal. I use it all the time to back up my Macbook Pro.
5|Very light and slim. Extremely portable! Pro: easily recognised when plugged in. Very thin and light Con: Can seem a bit cheap as aluminium is thin Overall great product. Highly recommended.
5|I was a little leary that I bought the returned version .. however, I can honestly say that it had no scratches ..was completely new .. despite the box being shredded to pieces before it got to my place.. but it has worked like champ.. smaller that the 1.5 tb drives and super slim.. I love it ..
5|it's the first time i bought sth on amazon.com. this item is great and very useful for my business. with 2TB capacity. i can store all my pictures, documents, and more other things.
5|Easy to use and very compact. It's a great way to back up files!
5|I like it. It is smaller than my other one.
5|Great product if you are looking for a really portable hard drive to back up all your stuff. 1 tb is way more space than most people need. I have many hard drives and this one is among the best. Easy to use - just plug in and go. Also I got it for a great price. Definitely would recommend this to anyone who wants to back up pictures, videos and anything else you want to protect from loosing in case your computer crashed. Also if you just want to take everything with you. I would buy this again.
5|Initial formatting problems quickly solved by Seagate's excellent, prompt, and courteous email help desk. Problems were being caused by a USB 3.0 incompatibility with Mac OS X Yosemite (10.10) which I am Beta testing. I was able to provide feedback to both Apple and Seagate on this issue prior to Apple's Fall release of Yosemite. Plus Slim 2TB Drive works just fine in USB 3.0 mode on OS X Mavericks (10.9.4). For now I am using it as a USB 2.0 drive with Yosemite until this issue is resolved. Even with USB 2.0 this is a nice, quiet, compact and nice quality drive.
5|Does the job. No complaints. I like the choice of colors keeps our family organized.
5|Got it as 2nd HD for Xbox One. Works well, as it should.
5|I chose this Seagate Backup Plus Slim mainly because 1) it provides a driver for my MacPro Retina so that I can directly write to its NTFS file system. 2) It's really small considering its 2TB mega storage. I have been using it for a few weeks and really like it.
1|I'm very disappointed by the quality of this product. As a first-time buyer of Seagate's products, this has left a very bad impression for me. Had I done my research, I could have known that Seagate is known for having reliability issues and would have not trusted all of my data in it. The second day I had it and it screwed me over by rendering all of my files and the hard drive itself inaccessible and unreadable. I had to shelled out 100 USD to buy the recovery software from Seagate in hoping that I could recover all of my data. And lord and behold, it came up empty and I'm left with a useless and over-priced piece of software that you could get for a fraction of the price everywhere else along with a haphazard hard drive that I wouldn't trust even if it is the last hard drive on Earth. Honestly, I feel robbed and extremely disappointed. Terrible, terrible brand. I DO NOT RECOMMEND IN ANY WAY.
5|Great small, slim external hard drive. Works across Mac & Windows so no problems.
5|it is so light, slim much more than my expectation and fast enough to use as back up storage on desk.
5|Love it!!
5|I took apart and put in my ps4. Awesome product. Installs games in half the time.
5|I have had this for over a year. I bought it to backup my PC before buying a MacBook. The transition was seamless.
5|I bought this hard drive because of its slim design and its awesome price and I can say that I have been very please after receiving this drive. Not only is it the slimmest drive I have owned, but it also performs very well (transfer speeds in the 80 MB/s). Even though the drive inside is 5,400 rpm (I wish it was 7,200 rpm), I am happy because I get really good transfer speeds and the slower drive probably leads to a lower power load on my laptop when using it on battery. I am really happy because it is a perfect portable hard drive due to its slim profile and the fact that it runs on USB only. However, I wish the drive came with a carrying case or some kind of shell to protect it on the road. Also, I wish it came with a longer USB cord to help give it some flexibility when plugged in. Nevertheless, the drive has held up well after a couple of weeks of heavy use and I have been happy with the overall built and performance this drive has provided.
4|I bought this drive as a backup & data sharing device but realized that it can be used (without the external case and USB 3 connector) as an internal laptop HD. I recently obtained a 17" laptop (Sager-NP8278S) with room for multiple drives. Although it came with both a 250 GB & 500 GB SSD as well as a 1TB "Hybrid" HD I wanted more room for storing photos and thought this HD would fit the bill. Taking of the lid o this external drive is a little tricky as it is glued on and taking the top off will mostly likely cause some damage to the case. The HD itself is nicely wrapped within the case and has a USB 3 adaptor attached to the SATA connector. It's just a matter of removing the adaptor and inserting the HD into the available 2.5" slot. The drive worked perfectly in the laptop and is very quiet. Overall a decent buy since it's actually significantly cheaper than buying the drive outright and I also now have a SATA to USB 3 connector that I can use with my spare 2.5" HDs. The only downside is that it most likely won't be covered by a warranty.
5|I have this attached to my Macbook pro. After reformatting it the product is working very well. I'm able to store over 30,000 of my photos which I use Lightroom to manage. It is quick and so far no issues with it.
1|Beautiful case...unfortunately I get a lot of errors when using the drive. I suspect maybe the issue is with the cable, perhaps it just needs more power (though I did have it plugged directly into my computer, not into a hub). Am returning the drive. Also: I was planning to use the drive in a laptop (as suggested in someone else's comment); fortunately I tested it before taking it apart, as that would have voided the warranty. If you do plan to take it apart to use internally, probably good to use a "spudger" or plastic tool to do so. A metal tool could mar the case. Because of the warranty issue, however, I'm getting an internal drive to replace this.
5|Smart, compact, fast.
5|I love the brushed look of this Portable drive. It's also very small and you cant go wrong with Seagate quality.
5|Love it service head fast
5|I've bought the red and the blue. Nice looking but even better than that....they are easy to set up and work seamlessly between our Mac and PCs. Easy to set up in seconds. Nice product at a great price.
5|excellent
5|Really fast and practical portable hard drive!
1|It took about 5 months for this to become unusable. Not sure what went wrong, but Disk Utlity (Mac Mavericks) could not fix it. I was able to finally pull the data off by plugging it into a USB 2 hub. Otherwise, it's now a little brick.
5|Gorgeous little unit, truly shirt-pocket size. The first time I hooked it up to my Mac, I just opened Disk Utility, chose my partition sizes and format, and let it do its thing. It took just a few minutes.
5|I purchased this as I'm the CFO for a construction/mfg concern and having the ability to quickly backup my personal info and carry it offsite securely is of major importance. The Seagate also gives me the ability to work on files off site and then transfer the materials back quickly and seemlessly. This is an awesome tool! I love the blue color and having the choice so that it's easily identified from the other other one used by the estimating office.
5|Nice
5|Aweaome! I took apart the enclosure, and installed the drive in my macbook pro 2010 DVD bay. The HD is great, works flawlessly so far.
5|I know its says slim in the title, but gezzz... it really is slim! I ordered 2 so far using my 28 degrees card, only cost me $220 aud delivered to Sydney. Fantastic product so far, i would buy more when needed. Personally recommend you grab a carry case just in case.
5|Top product. Great price. No issues.
5|Quick and fast and really good
4|So far the hard drive has worked as expected. Bad thing is the software that comes with the drive, it wont install on my pc so I gave up and installed Paragon backup, and works like a charm. I'll update if i find any issue with the hard drive
4|Great tool to use w/laptop for backup.
5|Super slim hdd i love it
3|Did not work well on a iMac.
5|Love this drive. It is small and light and works like a charm.
5|This should be enough storage to hold me for a very long time.
5|very good. thx
4|just what I expected, would have liked to get it a little cheaper instead of standard retail price, but like an iPad gonna find pretty much same price everywhere. Works perfect and no complaints on it.
5|I bought one of these here in Australia for $135 (instead of $180 regular price) with the sole intention of extracting the HDD to use in a laptop optical drive enclosure. There have been many reviews about taking it out an using it ins laptops and PS4's but I thought I'd throw my 2 cents in anyway. To extract the hard drive was a little difficult as I didn't want to damage the enclosure as I had other plans for it. I found that sticking a flat head screw driver in between then jimmying it left to right didn't do much. The trick is to get the screwdriver in between the case and the lid, then to push the screwdriver down until the end of the flat head is touching the top of the lid. Then you'll want to (carefully) push up a bit until you can get the screwdriver in the case itself, then lift the screwdriver until the clips let go. The lid is held down with clips and screws, to the best of my knowledge the clips aren't hard to break and if you happen to bend the metal lid (which I did a bit), it bends back easily. Another thing to note if you are planning to re use the enclosure is it might be useful to remove the glue. Took me 20 mins to scrape it up, but the lid holds on using the clips just fine and it'll be a heck of a lot easier to open it later if you have to. Of course opening the case voids your warranty and I cannot be held responsible for any mistakes or issues you run into, these are just my experience with the drive. Enjoy
5|Great
5|Thanks great give you 1.8 tb so it good for the price. Plus it very very very small. My phone is bigger I have galaxy note 3!
5|It works and stuff.
1|Price per TB is high as compared with two separate 2TB disk drives which is the premium to be paid for having two 2TB in one case. This does not worry me. After receipt of this new Seagate disk drive for over 1 month, I still have to take time to backup files from my WD My Passport 2TB to this new Seagate 4TB drive. I do not dare to backup all the files at the same time. Why? Even in air-conditioned environment of 23 degree C or 73 degree F, the excessively heat this new Seagate 4TB disk drive generates after 10 to 15 minutes of copying files made the case of this new Seagate drive too hot to touch while the WD My Passport 2TB used as the source disk may only be described as warm. I start to worry every time I used this new Seagate disk drive. Will it burn out or burn in flames? I usually stop to let it cool down after using for 15 to 30 minutes.
5|Great
1|I HAD thought that this was a wonderful little drive.... - Light & compact - Quiet - Attractive - Large amount of storage (2TB model)....... Right up up until it failed at 6.5 weeks!! Wow, I've been using dozens of drives for decades and never had a had a drive that failed so quickly. Now I'm reading the reviews of others on whom this drive has failed within the first few weeks and it is staggering! Too bad Amazon won't let me return it. I just missed the return window by 2 weeks and 2 days. Good for Amazon - bad for customer. What a lousy experience. What is the ONE performance criteria that all hard drives should have in order to be considered a good product?? That's right, reliability! Well, look elsewhere if you actually need it to work after a few weeks. Now I get to look forward to the headache of dealing with customer support and getting a replacement - and God knows how long that one will work.
4|Drive arrived on time and packed very well. Works fine - I have partitioned it into 2x1Tb halves, one formatted for MAC and the other for WIN. All seems to be ok. Only complaint - instructions that come with the drive are superficial, and finding out how to use the drive effectively for a mixed environment (MAC, PC, mobile device...) is much harder than it should be.
5|excellent hdd..i m very fond ogf u product2
5|Technology is incredible these days... My USB 3.0 still wont go as fast as advertised, even with all the "fixes" i have read about and upgrades to Mother Board
5|love it
5|First one Came defective - computer (Windows and Linux) would not recognize it and drive would make clicking sounds before cycling power. I'm hoping it's just one of those flukes as Seagate products have always served me well and a friend has this drive and loves it. I will redo this review once the replacement arrives. Edit - Replacement came the next business day. Works great!!! It's all I expected and then some with the seagate dashboard letting you backup from your mobile device. (as much as I use my phone, I already have it backed up in two locations, but this one is that much more security). This might be Christmas present material for my whole family!!
5|If you're looking for the best device to expand your Xbox One's storage, look no further! Just buy one of these bad boys, hook it up to your Xbox One, and in just a few minutes. ..no kidding minutes. .like 2 or 3, your System will convert it into storage space and now you will have all the space you will ever need. I have mine hooked up and with all the new updates Microsoft has put out for the xbox one, it turns on and off with the system automatically, powers up into the low power state with the system to pre-load games like Destiny, or Call of duty AW, or if I buy a digital game off line from xbox.com or with Smart glass, as long as my system is set to be in standby, all games will install to the new 2tb hard drive, and be ready to play when I get home from work! I've only used 9% of my HDD so far, and I moved all of my games and Apps onto it.......This could Take a while to fill up lol This is how gaming should be! *I'm aware that steam has been doing this already on PC's for a while. ..because I own a gaming Pc as well.
4|So far so good. It is the size of a smart-phone, and I was surprised how fast it wrote a few dozen gigabytes.
5|SOOOOO much faster than my old USB 2.0 HDD. And with 2TB of space and its continuous synch capabilities, I can be sure it has all my media on it when I unplug it and take it on the go.
5|I wasn't sure about getting this but I thought it would be worth a try. When I received it I started the switch out process, it wasn't difficult at all. I had to pry the hard drive case apart with a flathead screwdriver to get the hard drive out. I had already downloaded the PS4 update(700mb I think) onto a USB flash drive. It took less than 10 minutes to remove original hard drive and replace with new one. Formatting the new hard was quick and easy. Downloading all my games and saves took a bit longer but now I have over 1700 gb of free space. I found all of this on YouTube.
5|I use this product to back up my job files which are currently at 35+ GB. This hard-drive transferred files to and from with surprising speed. It looks super sleek and I keep it on my desk out in the open.
5|Perfect hard drive that only requires USB to power it. I love it.
5|so far, so good
5|Great external hard drive for the money. Nice and small too.
5|Tiny, lightweight, dependable, great!
5|Awesome deal. Great backup. A good hard drive
5|Works beautifully!
4|Great price have not tried it yet
5|Great price, great HD. Holds all my music and many movies. I take my entertainment with me. Love it.
5|This special offer was well timed, as I bought this to replace an old 250 GB drive that no longer worked. The old drive was quite large, a hard drive in a shiny metal case the size of a leather Bible. It had its own power cord and whirred like a beehive when it fired up. By contrast, this Seagate drive is same thickness as my iPhone, and only slightly longer. Yet it has more than four times the storage capacity as that old drive. It runs silently, powered only by its USB connection to the computer. It does perfectly what I bought it to do: keeps backups of docs, pictures, music and videos from our desktop and two laptops. Transfer speeds seem adequate, limited as much by the PC and the operating system, but most transfers are simple background tasks while I do other "work." All in all, this was the perfect replacement for my dead drive, and I would highly recommend this to anyone with important computer data and no current backup. It's even small enough to carry with you to serve as a second drive for your laptop.
5|Very compact, fast, and sleek. I use it everyday to move files between my office and home computers. So far so good!
5|Very nice, college daughter was thrilled with its capacity and small size GREAT VALUE!
5|I haven't completely kept up with all the latest computer technology so I was amazed and impressed by just how useful this 1 TB backup external hard drive is! I bought this at a local brick and mortar store and the only glitch was that at first my computer didn't recognize this external hard drive right away--but I kept it plugged into my USB port and rebooted my computer and then my computer recognized it very quickly! The installation was then a breeze and so was registering this product. I was also very satisfied with the speed at which I was able to backup all the files that I wanted to backup in case my computer's hard drive ever crashes (as it has twice in the last two years alone)! It's easy to do additional backups and it's very easy to look at the files stored on the external hard drive--my Windows 7 PC automatically gave me a popup "box" that allowed me to choose to look at the files on the drive with very little effort. (It also works with USB 2.0.) Despite the very minor glitch with my computer not recognizing this device right away I definitely recommend this external hard drive. It's got lots of space for many, many files and I can easily access them using my computer any time I want--I love it! The only way Seagate could improve this product is to make the USB cord attaching the external drive to the computer a few inches longer, but this is a relatively minor quibble since it really does the job well.
1|I have tried repeatedly to install the dashboard but it will not install. It keeps telling me "there is no disk in the drive"??? It sees the hard drive but still this message. I have tried the few suggestions on the Seagate website but those don't work either. Could not find a number to call. This is my 2nd Seagate over the years. The first one was terrible and just quit but this is ridiculous that it will not even install. DO NOT BUY--MAJOR RIPOFF!!!
4|performs as described. Only suggestion to Seagate would be 18-24 inch USB cord instead of the 12 inch cord included.
5|Good product. Good service.
4|But the 2TB is really 1.81 TB...does it really need 19 GB for operations.....
5|Great product at a great price!! Works perfectly.
5|A very small item to hold so much data. Seems great. Had to reformat as usual, but once that was done, the full capacity was available and serves very well as a place to store my movies.
5|I have used the Seagate Backup Plus to backup my Dell computer. Now I have my computer on a backup schedule. It's so nice knowing if something, crash power surge, or some other unavoidable event, happens I have a backup of my pertinent files.
5|Removed the drives and used them as regular 9.5mm SATA drives. Great!!
5|Great product, prompt shipment, highly recommended.
4|Great!
1|Very disappointed ugh! Usually I only have drives from one brand and I never had a single disk problem whatsoever over the past 20 years! This time some coworkers convinced me that this Seagate drive is great. After some bad gut feeling I bought it... what can go wrong eh? Of course it's some sort of dead on arrival and I'm pulling my hair out to make it work. Well, lesson learned.
1|It worked well during the few days I used it. It dropped to the floor from a table. A height around 2 feet. There was no scratch or dent on it. I thought it was okay. The case feels very solid. Unfortunately it did not work from that point on. The light came on and then flashed. Nothing more happened. I tried to use it on a few different PCs. Luckily, I was only using it as a back up for my vacation pictures. The drive does not have much shock resistance. This is very dangerous for an external drive that will be handled constantly. I have not used a mechanical drive for many years. I will stick to SSD drives from now on. Much more shock resistance. If it is not reliable, then any other spec does not matter. Nothing is worth loosing your valuable data.
5|Plenty of room!
5|Great hd, small, fast and lightweight
3|none
5|Seagate hard drives are all that and a bag of chips. Easy to install, fast and easy to use. I love it.
5|Just what I needed
5|Great drive. Plays nicely with Mac and PC. Feels very sturdy and has a quality look to it. It is very quiet, I mean really quiet. Traveled with it for the last few months and so far has been great. It is faster than most portable drives in this class but would not set any speed records. A bit on the heavy side but it is understandable for a 4TB drive. It is also smaller than it looks on the Amazon website.
5|Arrived very quickly. I got this for a dirt cheap price as it was a daily deal. Terrific!!!
1|My experience with the Seagate 1 TB external hard drive seems to be very different from the other reviews here. The first one loaded my backup but couldn't retrieve anything. They sent me another one (since I couldn't access my files, I couldn't delete them either which made me nervous about returning.) The replacement one worked about twice then the same thing - my computer just couldn't see it. I have a WD backup which works each time so know it isn't my computer. I will not buy another Seagate product.
5|I LUV it, priced right came quick, works great!
5|Muy bueno
5|works great....
5|Small, light, sturdy, and large capacity - Excellent travel storage
5|Excellent external hard drive
4|Works great!
4|Attached to our new Tablo, seems to work fine.
5|Great device.
5|Very Good!!!!
5|worked great
4|It works great!
5|This was purchased at a great price so I hopped on it and am happy that I did. Two days after I had backed up my system, it crashed and burned. After cleaning it up, I restored the system and I'm back up and running!
5|very good deal, thank you:)
5|Drive worked great for me once I removed the Seagate software
5|No trouble so far
5|I'm particularly happy with this Ex-HDD because it's fast. Noticeably faster than the Samsung 2TB M3 I had received from elsewhere a couple of weeks earlier, oh, and even the Samsung is fast.
4|Delivery was excellent. Just plugged to my pc and backed up all my photograps to the drive. Extremely pleased
5|It looks great and Its performance is excellent.
5|So easy to use, only had to download one thing onto my mac so that the hard drive could travel between the two. very happy i purchased it
5|The best storage device I have ever owned.
5|One TB model - reviewed Worked perfect out of box - net 931 GB available for actual use. The unit looks and feels like a small smartphone (without a screen). Runs perfectly quite and cool. Speed adequate - about 1 GB/minute thru a 3.0 port. I sequestered the supplied software in a separate folder labelled "bloatware" as I have little use for bundled software. I prefer to back up files/folders using system software. I periodically make a "mirror image" of my entire internal HDD using Macrium Reflect software - which, incidentally, is one of the finest free software packages on the 'net. As an addendum, I ordered the item using one day delivery to test that service - a guy pulls up in front of my house in a little sedan about 8 Pm the same day - as promised. What more can I say? Great buying experience so far
5|Great external hard drive and price. I used it with a Mac and PC and it works well.
5|Nice
5|Most excellent product
5|Great hard drive i never seen...
4|does all that it says it will. Even I found it easy to use.
5|Love it. Backing up all computers and saving years of photos......to keep in my fire safe. Everything safe now!!! No more fears of crashes....or my 9 year old granddaughter doing something serious.
5|Thin, light, and fast (USB3). Great to take on vacations to hold photo backups. And it comes in colors so you can easily differentiate between two of them.
5|Great drive. Rapid transfer rate. Nice looking and very slim.
4|Device works as advertised and good reference material available online from Seagate. Proprietary lead/plug is a bit bogus.
5|Excelente disco, me gusto mucho su tamaño e interface.
4|Great product!!
5|Wonderful right out of the box! Note, however, that it is NOT supported through the USB port in my 2013 Ford Focus EV Synch system (boooo!). Works beautifully otherwise!
5|Seagate Backup Plays plays nice with Mac and PC. Critical to be able to use a drive that is "ambidextrous".
5|Works great. Easy to use. Portable size.
1|Two months after purchase it decides to stop working -- so it can't be returned and my so called "backup" is useless. What a waste of resources and unfortunate loss of irreplaceable photos.
3|The hard drive itself is good, and a good value. I was getting consistent 70-90 Mb/s write speed transfering between my computer hard disk and other USB 3 drives. My issue was that before the problem was resolved, I got a drive with a defective USB chord. It took me a while to figure it out, as I had to make sure it wasn't the drive itself, or the USB port, or the USB hub, or my computer that was at fault, since when it was connected, it showed the drive and contents, and everything was fine until I started transferring files, at which it would start off normally, then screech to a crawl of around 320 Kb/s, and then end up with an I/O(input/output) error message. Just be careful, if you have I/O error messages when you are transferring files, that it's most likely the chord.
5|good
4|Works great so far. The only thing I wish I would have done was purchased the larger one. It filled up fast with pictures.
4|Simple review: This is a fantastic thin hard drive and even better for its price, its only 4 stars because its included software is fantastic for some and a little annoying for others. So if you need a fantastic 1TB Hdd with good transfer speeds, while keeping a thin profile this is the right one for you, just mind the backup software which is a hit or miiss.
5|I have a 500 gb external hard dirve but now I have this one which is great. The price was great too.
5|The drive is quick, reliable and good looking. There's really no down side to this item.
1|I just requested a return authorization from Amazon and am sending this little hockey puck back. It hasn't failed completely, but is causing a "kernel panic" on my Macbook Pro which results in instantaneous shut down, reboot, shut down, reboot...you get the picture. Tried it on a Macbook Air, and same thing happened. I spoke with Seagate support for about 1/2 an hour, was told I should have everything backed up in duplicate (thanks, and that was the plan but we couldn't make it far enough with the drive to back it up to the cloud at my brother's office with the T1 line and our internet is SLOW and unable to complete a Cloud backup). Irrelevant. Tried to run a test and couldn't because it kept causing more "kernel panic" on the Macbook. Bottom line, this thing is either super-fragile (it sat on my desk and wasn't abused at all in the 2 weeks it spent here) or the drivers/hardware are problematic. The Macbook is fine as long as this Seagate Backup Plus Slim isn't plugged in. I highly suggest looking at another model. My original 3 year old Seagate drive is (knock on wood) chugging along great. I think this could be a model issue.
5|Great product and Great service.
5|I am most pleased with this product. It arrived quickly and has put my mind at rest with its ease of use and mega storage capabilities.
5|Works great, small, lightweight, and it's a Seagate.
5|Sweet Deal!
3|As for 2TB portable drives go this seems to be a great drive. However, as for a backup solution for your portal device - especially iOS - don't bother, look elsewhere. The problem with mobile backups isn't the drive's fault, it's the completely useless mobile app for iOS. And yes, I'm lumping the horrible mobile app review into this product review because this drive touts itself as filling this role when you use the app. So, in essence, they're together as a package. The mobile app, again for iOS, will only backup your camera roll - that's it. I knew this going in but if you're expecting to do a full-phone backup your only solution is what Apple provides, you have to use either iTunes or iCloud. So just be aware of that. The main issue with mobile backup (iOS) is that the app has zero background capabilities. The app must be in the foreground running and the phone must be unlocked. So... the only way to get it to backup anything is to either babysit it (touching the screen to prevent sleep) and not doing anything else on your phone, OR disable sleep mode entirely ("Never sleep"). Since neither of these are practical options the whole idea of mobile backup is a complete waste. The story is likely different for Android but I didn't test it. The drive does come up an NTSF driver for Mac, should you want to keep it in NTSF format (use on both Macs and Windows), so that's a nice touch. You must launch the software to install the NTSF drive, however. Since the mobile backup part of this drive is useless there's practically no difference in what you'd be getting if you just purchased the 2TB portable drive from Seagate, for 10.00 cheaper. Overall: Drive itself is a solid portable 2TB drive... 5 stars. Software to use the drive... 1 star. If Seagate fixes the mobile app I'll consider adding some stars.
5|Received it promptly and as described.
4|The cable they give you is pretty short, other than that I've had no issues with it. Functions perfectly, and looks sleek.
5|So far, an excellent portable backup drive for my Mid 2012 MacBook Air. I found out after initially purchasing a WD My Passport for Mac and cloning my SSD with Carbon Copy Cloner that not all USB 3.0 drives are bootable. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is indeed bootable! CCC recommends against buying any drive that doesn't specifically advertise to be bootable. I was unable to verify that this drive is bootable until I purchased one and tried it. It works!!
5|goood
5|I love Amazon. I received my drive within a few days and it works fantastic. Thank you
4|I am a college student who was in desperate need of an external drive because I managed to fill my entire Macbook Pro. The drive works great, but unfortunately the apps that are advertised with this product only applies to Windows OS computers and the apps are basically incompatible with Apple's OS X (unless you want to custom install but doing so is tricky). However, I am fine with doing everything manually and the transfer speed is fast. For the price of the 1TB drive, it's more than satisfactory for me.
5|EXCELLENT PRODUCT
4|Easy to figure out how to use, and super-easy to use - just start it up, and it does all the work.
4|I use this drive to back up my original photo files when on the road. The size & speed of the drive make it easy to tote around and easy to back up files because of its speed. Haven't had it long enough to comment on its durability, tho it did recently tolerate an 8,700 mile car trip being hauled all over the place.
4|Not used it much yet. But it seems better and easier than others I have.
5|Amazing.
5|More memory than I probably need, it is great!
5|I love this little fella!
5|Replacing some old drives I have had forever, I use for backup so replace them every 5 years or so Nobody likes to have a drive failure and with Seagate Portables I have never had one ... except when I dropped 1 on a tile floor ... click click I do not expect any hard drive to survive that though
4|it is perfect
5|Love it best investment ever.
5|A very excellent product
4|I love it. Massive storage for its size. Great product.
5|This is my third seagate external hard drive. This one is fantastically small! A little bigger than a big smartphone. The usb 3.0 is crazy fast (i got up to 90mb/s while not doing anything else) and it feels really durable. If it's like my other seagate drives (which i've had over 3 years) it should last me a long time.
5|This is my fifth seagate portable drive. As with all the others, this is working perfectly. I highly recommend this product to anyone who is in the market for a high-capacity, portable, external hard drive. Regardless of operating system, it works flawlessly!
5|I love it.
3|Trying to use this device on my new Surface Pro 3 machine. It does not work. Surface states device draws too much power. :-( Then connected to powered USB hub, and its running. After about 30 minutes of copying files onto the device, it is REALLY hot. Not sure if all this is "normal" functions for the device.
3|Seagate backup plus slim is a very nice device my only problem is with the app. The app almost never makes the backup automatically I seem to always end up doing it manually the backup almost always fails on the first attempt as well. Folks complaining about it not running at all need to delete the backup plan then re create it Regards
5|Compact and peppy
5|Received in reasonable amount of time, items work great, would use seller again.
5|Very easy to use and compact for simple storage and transport. It was a GREAT price too! Wanted to get more at that price!!
5|all very good
5|Plug and play as time machine in mac
4|Easy to use and fairly quick.
1|The unit broke after a day and a half just quit working
5|Worked flawlessly without any problems. Great price and fast delivery.
3|This is not what I wanted. It does hold lots of data, but I can only retrieve it on my computer. I want a drive I could save my movies to and watch on my tv
4|Very nice. Easy to set up.
5|Just what i ordered looks great and works perfect i have the 1TB and needed more
5|Got this product through one of kindle specials for 20. But it works great mainly I'm using it to back up some documents from my computer and pictures from both computer and phone....also.discovered it will back up photos from Facebook which I love most things I can replace but not photos especially the many I have scanned from old photos.
5|Love it ! Enough said.
5|Love it. Trusty, reliable Seagate portable harddrive. Arrived ahead of projected delivery date. Would highly recommend this product.
5|works great!
4|By far the best and slimmest drive I have had. It is perfect. And the delivery to Mexico was prompt by Amazon. Bravo. Cant wait to get higher capacity of the slim drives.
5|I use it ALL the time. It works like a flash drive by plugging into your USB port and is MUCH cheaper than a flash drive with 1 TB for $25.00 (I got it on an one hour SPECIAL put out by Kindle) And I can take it from computer to computer as it is so small. Keep checking on Kindle if they have another special.
1|I had inquired previously whether or not it was compatible with my kindle fire, and from more than one source, was under the impression that it was... it is not.. while it may have been a great deal, it has proven useless to me...
5|A great deal!! We gave this item to our son as a birthday present. He loves it!!!!
4|The product exceeded all my expectations.
5|my speeds top out at 107 mb/s read and 98 mb/s write
5|Bought it for my son-in-law so he could take his grades with him...just got his masters degree and he is teaching at Odessa College so what a better way to give him something that he can take with him and not worry about always having his computer on hand!
5|Nice addition for storage, good buy!
5|Love it!!!
5|Seems to work pretty well, no problems that I have found.
5|Awesome! Very lightweight and portable. Love how I can put it in my purse and take it with me, even the cord can go with me as it is a short cord. I can back up my computer (which has needed it for a while now because of all the music, pictures and books that are on it). I also tend to download a few games that are my favorites so this helps me to be able to keep my computer cleaned up and clutter free so that it runs better. Thanks so much, I am very happy with it.
4|I would have give 5 stars but it wasn't what I thought it be but I did get my music backed. Thank you P S. It was good for the price
2|Don't know what really happened but my PC froze after a message "can't connect to server". I try using a different USB port and same thing. No good.
1|wasnt delevered wtf
5|I use this with my vip 612 dvr from dish network. Have had no problems with it. It does not have a separate power supply sodish warns to use it at your oown risk. I just dont leave it plugged in all the time and plug it in only when in use and have had no issue. Great way to free up space on your dvr!
5|Excellent
4|Great price and great size.
5|price couldn't have been better. shipping drove the deal up. unit works as expected. oodles of storage. great backup
5|This is amazing, love it, you can't go wrong here, it's 2T, you can save as much stuff as you want. I saved up to $80 buying this from amazon. I highly recommend it if you are wanting to buy a hard drive for personal/ business use.
5|I received. The backup very quickly. I was able to back up my computer and am no longer concerned of a crash.
5|Immense capacity, small size, perfect and easy to use.
5|I LOVE this product. I have a small business and cannot always finish my work in the shop. being able to bring the work home and finishing it there is so much easier. my stress level is much lower and I no longer sound like a dog by barking at others. I would highly recommend this product to others even if they do not own a business. college students would love it.
5|Excelent product. And I got it at a great deal.
5|It's perfect for my needs.
5|Excellent backup system. Easy to read dashboard. Reliable.
5|Very good and reliable product .Can be used internally.
5|great product
5|Just plug and play very happy with this hard drive .I have movies and music on the hard drive and the files play everytime
5|Awsome !!!
5|As a backup and extra external drive this product surpassed my expectations.
5|Love it. Portability is great size great.
5|Great storage, great size. Highly recommend.
5|I got this to upgrade my PS4 from the factory 500gb to 2TB. It took all of 30 minutes, then of course the rest of the night re-download the games. But it works extremely well, nice fast boot. I love having so much space, especially for all the games coming up this fall. The case is very easy to remove, and then can be reused with the former PS4 drive or any other 2.5" drive. Just take a very flat screwdriver or anything related and carefully work your way around the seam, twisting the tool ever so lightly. Even if you get to aggressive and crack the case or bend it a bit, do not worry; the hard drive is just fine.
5|Very fast, No Power Adapters required and 4TB!!! Wish they did make a Raid 1 version for data protection grant it won't have the speed of course. About half of the computers I have used don't have the power requirements for this drive so I have used the provided USB cable with auxiliary USB power support quite well, Don't leave home with it! USB chargers like for phones do come in handy especially with the Surface Pro 3 only having one USB 3.0 port that for some reason does not give enough power but does support USB 3.0 speeds. Over 100MBps is awesome, much less waiting time especially when your going for those TB transfers. There is two drives in there and I am sure a raid 0 board that also requires a healthy amount of power so it makes sense its particular, sometimes I have to unplug and plug back in for the computer to recognize it. I have had better success by leaving the auxiliary USB power in first wait a few and then plug the main USB port in for those finicky computers.
4|great little backup hard drive. Very simple and you can tuck it away easily because of the small size. good backup software.
1|Worst product I ever got from Amazon (Normally a top seller of great products). Let me clarify. The product worked like I suppose it was supposed too. Unfortunately it was a "back-up" unit, and I needed a "desk-top" unit, so that I could determine what I saved instead of the system determining it. I loved the price, but now I will have to pay twice as much for the "right" kind of product. Sure wish that it would have worked, I need space Badly!!
5|Perfect slim external HDD for my Xbox One. I needed more storage on my Xbox One and wanted a small and slim form factor without the need for external power. This uses one USB 3.0 and works great. Plug and play on the Xbox One.
3|The hard drive is slim and light, BUT the the mobile "wireless" backup is so difficult and painful, I decided not to do it at the end and use it as a regular hard drive. I tried backing up the images through drop box (Camera Uploads), So Seagate would create a defferent folder in dropbox and cope media files from the phone allover again (so i'm stuck with two duplicate folders on my dropbox each are 40 GB!) Great product, but not so much
5|This certainly lives up to the hype. I have a really old Seagate and it always worked great, so was hoping this mega size Seagate would be as great. I ran out of room on my PC and had to clean it up. Now that I have the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External storage, it's like I have a new computer, moving my files to the Seagate. Since I want to buy an Apple computer in another year or so, I wanted to make sure that the external storage was compatible and portable! This more than met my criteria.
5|Slim, Fast, attractive- so far so good...!
1|I am giving this product only one star, not because of the quality of the drive, it's probably great, but rather because of the incredibly poor customer service offered by Seagate. I ordered this drive from Seagate and was informed a day or so after my purchase that the drive is back ordered with no anticipated arrival date. Seagate does not return any orders other than back orders and after 20 minutes or so on their website I finally found the small print telling you that you must contact them by phone to arrange the return. While I was on hold for 30 minutes waiting for customer service to respond I continued to search their website for a place to contact them via email. I finally found the link that says"contact us" and voila, the link goes to an empty page. In the end I created a ticket for a problem with my order and submitted it. I received an email saying someone would contact me shortly. Then I hung up from the endless Muzak while being on hold for 45 minutes with no response. The ticket was submitted 3days ago and I have still not heard back from anyone at Seagate. I don't think I will ever buy a Seagate drive primarily because I could not tolerate the potential problems involving customer support. Buyer Beware!
5|Took the hard drive out and put it in my ps4 and it has worked flawlessly for several weeks. Put the ps4 harddrive back in the casing, formatted it and it works great too.
4|It's a great external hard drive but I thought I read that it was wifi compatible but other then that it a good fit for me!
5|Got this to upgrade my PS4 HDD. Currently the only 9.5mm 2TB hard drive available. Works like a charm, anyone who say it doesn't is kidding themselves and need to learn how to do the easiest HDD swap ever.
5|Nice backup hard drive to my Mac laptop
4|A large capacity (2 TB) drive in a very small shell. It's fast and it gets the job done despite the initial mishaps which I suspect was due to device software. Rest assure after a few goes it will be fine plus Seagate's Tech Support will help you if you need help. Updated review, now 4 stars- I've lost fate in Seagate software, it doesn't work-deleting it.
5|so far so good
5|I am fan of seagate!!!
5|Gift for my Grandson. Great gift for an Eagle Scout.
5|As someone who still remembers getting a Shugart SA1004 8" 10meg drive and being amazed, I have to tell you that holding 1T in the palm of my hand is incredible. This drive works and works well. I use it with Windows and Mac for backups. Well worth it and the price here was also great.
5|Super slim and portable. Plus, it's pretty. :) USB 3.0 makes transferring my data fast and easy.
5|The drive works great. Plugged it in and it was recognized immediately and was ready to store and backup my data.
5|This is a good and slim portable hdd. But I format the drive accidentally and I lost the icon. When I connect it to my laptop it shows only a generic HDD icon now, can anyone share the RED Seagate backup plus icon so I can have the cool red icon back? Thanks
5|Very fast delivery and awesome product
5|Bought this for my PS4 and couldn't of been happier. Was very scarred about buying this and taking it out of the case thinking it was going to be hard, but it's actually really easy. Anyone that's in need of a new hard drive for their ps4, BUY THIS! It's a great deal.
5|This little thing rocks. Easy to carry with you. Blazing fast on USB 3.0. Lots of space to allow a true backup regimen without having to worry about space. It's quiet, too. The only way I can tell it's running is when I touch it. Even then it's almost indistinguishable. I would recommend this highly. Sure you're going to pay a little more for it. But there's no doubt you get bang for those bucks.
5|Great price for 500 GB!
5|Bought the 4tb version of this drive. It is super compact, quiet, and bus powered. Running Blackmagic SppedDisk test I get 230mb/s read/write, which is twice as fast as a usual external drive. I also tried a similar product from Western Digital, which was twice as large and $100 more. Returned it.
5|Perfect...Fast Shipping...No issues
4|This is a great drive. I'd been waiting on someone to finally make a bus powered external drive that was larger than 2TB and Seagate finally did. The only problem is it must be plugged directly into a computer's USB connection and not through an unpowered hub unlinke the 2TB external drive I have from Western Digital. When you're working with a laptop that only has two USB ports to begin with that can be a problem. I had bought this drive with the intention of replacing the Western Digital 2TB drive but unfortunately I've had to find other uses for this 4TB drive. The drive itself so far works really well I just wish you could use it with an unpowered USB hub so that I'm not tied down with another cable.
5|I would have to say the best part about this hard drive is the software. I love how it backs up my needed information.
5|I have been using WD My Passport Ultra 3tb, which is a great product. I was going to buy another one from Amazon, but happen to find the Seagate Backup Plus Slim. The two products are similar, but SBPS is $20 cheaper and newer (came out in 2014), so I decided to give it a try...it turns out to be a good purchase. Comparing to WDPU, the Seagate is about the same length, but only half in thickness, which makes is super portable. Transfer-rate is good (lives up to the USB 3.0 standard). I tested it with several large files, and it has handled the job well. I don't use the back-up software, so no comments on that. By the way, the drive is powered with USB cable, no need for stand-alone power cable. Overall the product looks really nice and solid. If the durability is good as well, then I can honestly say it is one of the best portable drives in the market.
1|I purchased this external hard drive to back up files from the home computer as I was going through a divorce. It was used only 3 times and now does not work. I got this in early April and it is now too late to return it as per Amazon so I am stuck with a worthless hard drive. I have purchased Seagate hard drives before and they all worked really good and are still working. This one was a lemon. :(((
5|It's perfect, nice design and works fast.
5|Just popped this drive in my PS4 30 minutes ago, works great. The drive is a Samsung spinpoint http://www.amazon.com/Seagate-Momentus-SpinPoint-ST2000LM003-Notebook/dp/B00I8O6OQ4/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1407392143&sr=8-1&keywords=samsung+spinpoint+m9t#customerReviews it's less expensive and you get an external case to put another drive in, albeit voids warranty. Working good on firmware 1.75, no reboot issues others were having on lower fw. Some people are reporting drive failures after certain periods....as always just keep your saves backed up to usb or use online ps+ The price is very good for the extra space PS4 needs. After install 1767GB is available. It only took about 12 games to fill up the stock 500GB. Surprisingly Sony hasn't upped the hard drive capacity, even with Destiny Console in preorder. But very easily the drive is replaced and console warranty remains intact. I advise to keep the original drive put away in case the PS4 requires shipping back for a repair, especially if expensive ssd were installed.
5|No issues yet. Using it to play game backups on a modded wii. Works perfectly for it. The kiddos are using it as I type this as a matter of fact
4|Good but can be better
5|***** I couldn't ask for more. Great job. Excellent product. Will hope to do another transaction with you in the future.
1|Won't mount on a Mac Mini! May as well get a desktop external hard drive with its own power adapter.
5|I love the seagate hard drives. This is the 3rd one I have. I use it exclusively for collecting and cataloging all our digital photos.
5|it's worth the price. it's in good quality and it's easy to operate.
5|Worked great for me, all I needed was a good drive to backup my photos and files, and it worked perfect. It also will do incremental backups. I did not try the mobile media backup or social media settings, so I can't comment on that part!
5|It's so small you'll forget it's there. The USB 3.0 is so super fast that you'll never be sitting around waiting to transfer data.
4|first off this is the best looking portable hard drive i ever saw. i loved the speed and was happy for a week then the drive stopped working i called amazon they replaced the drive so far a month and i have no issues.
3|Pros: * Very good USB 3.0 transfer speeds. On a 10GB file I can average 110 MB/sec. * Very compact (same size as most 2.5" drives, no power supply required) * Seagate return policy is relatively convenient (although it will cost you $9.95 or pay your own return shipping) Cons: * Went bad after approximately 40 hours of usage over 4 months * Runs a bit hot compared to other 2.5" portable USB drives I have Recommendation: Pay a little extra, buy an improved model (or high-end case with BYO drive).
4|Great product as I would expect from Seagate. Small, sleek and fast. Only one thing, if I had to complain is the length of the supplied USB cable. It is really short. If you wish to use this with a tower or desktop computer, then I would suggest adding a longer cable to your order.
1|Bought this from Amazon when it first became available. The first one crashed after less than 2 months of use. The replacement from Amazon also crashed after less than 2 months of use. Amazon declined to send me a third one and gave me a full refund instead, but told me that I could purchase it again in the future if I wanted. Looks like there is a problem with the early batches. Hopefully there are some updates for the later production and they are more reliable. I like the idea of a portable 4TB drive, but hopefully the reliability bugs can be worked out quickly, and I can get another one soon.
2|The device has a lot of storage but the wifi capability of looking a stored data via the seagate memory between other devices like an iPhone or iPad didn't work for me.
3|I don't know if it's the hardrive. but my computer hasn't acted the same since my son plugged it in. I can't wake it up in the morning anymore. Have to compltely turn it off and restart it now. Do't know wheteher it's the hard drive or not, but something isn't right here.
5|I use this to house most of the files for my MacBook Pro but have it formatted for both the Mac and my Windows computer for when I need to move files from one to the other. You do have the option to format it just for the Mac though (note that it cannot be used with Time Machine unless you choose this option). This is a lightweight, stylish, and affordable hard drive. It's also quiet as can be. I've not run into any problems with it in the couple of months that I've had it. Definitely worth getting.
4|Good Capacity, useful backup functions but the OS (Windows 7) does not start when switching computer on if the HD is plugged. I have to unplug the device before starting computer. At that time, this is the only drawback.
4|The drive itself is small (conveninet) and silent. I have absolutely no issue taking it around with me to do some work. Like at a coffee shop. It doesn't require an external battery source for power. It is also virtually silent. It comes with a small convenient USB cable too.
1|This slid off my macbook air onto the floor... so *maybe* 1/4 inch. Needle came off the disk and no longer mounts. Left with either 500$ data recovery or a new hard drive. Luckily it was just backups so I waited till a new drive came, backed it up, and am now seeking my replacement (might as well get my moneys worth, it's only been a month and a half). It is a great drive aesthetically - everything snaps in secure, it's small, thin, light - but it is NOT secure. Over 1/3 of the reviews say so, so don't be fooled!
5|Plug n Play. Works great!
5|Product is as described. Shipping is very fast, package is perfect! Also great deal, great price! Service is very great! It provides all information that I want to know and help me to choose the best item for me, replies messages quickly.
5|Good things do indeed come in small packages. I'm mighty pleased with this 2 TB portable drive, which sits pancake-flat on my desk and has a footprint not much larger than a coaster. The drive has a brushed metal top plate melded to a black plastic sides and bottom. I opted for the silver top plate, which turned out to be an attractive but by no means close match with Apple aluminum. When initially connected to a Mac, the user is automatically presented with the option of configuring the drive in NTSC format for dual use with Macintosh and Windows computers, or in HFS+ format for use with Time Machine on the Mac. I chose HFS+ for an additional reason: my desire to encrypt the drive. I accomplished this by choosing Time Machine's encrypted backups option, which actually encrypts the entire drive. I bought this drive in preparation for a road trip that my wife and I are planning. Right now, the drive is configured to accept Time Machine backups of the MacBook Air we'll be taking with us on the trip, and also contains Carbon Copy Cloner backups of our home folders from our respective desktop Macs. I figured that it would be much easier to simply take copies of our home folders with us rather than tunnel in to our desktop Macs from the road, or buy enough cloud storage space to hold everything we might need. If I lose the drive en route I'm out $100, but our data will be safe. The drive is available with a USB 3.0 interface only, which is backwards-compatible with USB 2.0. None of the Macs in my household has a USB 3.0 bus, but the drive's performance under USB 2.0 is satisfactory for my purposes. An 18-inch USB cable is included, which is more than adequate for connecting the drive to an iMac, Mini or laptop. The drive draws power from the USB cable. No AC cord is necessary--or even available. The drive owes its slim profile to the a lack of a power port or an on/off switch. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim portable hard drive is compact, versatile and stowable--it will fit in my laptop case with nary a bulge. If you're in the market for an inexpensive travelin' drive with room enough to hold loads of data, this one definitely merits a close look.
5|I've only had this a couple of months, but it worked wonderfully for me. I'm using it with a Mac, so I used Disk Utility to reformat the drive in a Mac-compatible format. Of course, that erased the built-in backup software, which is something that many other reviewers have commented upon as not working very well, or at least inconsistently.
4|I have one month of using it, and for now, it is awesome!
5|Delivered as advertised.
5|Great backup drive, and a great web store to shop on. good prizes and fast shipping.
5|Works pretty good, transfer rate is good too. Best of all it's so slim. I recommend it.
5|Nice product. Great slim design.
1|DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT. I've had many other storage devices in the past and I've never had had a failure like I had with this hard drive. I only used this hard drive a couple of times, I copied into it thousands of personals photos and then it stopped working, I have lost many important personal photos. I'll never buy Seagate products in my life again. Don't get confused with the lower price, it has a lower price because it doesn't work.
5|Thin, lightweight and works just fine!
5|A very compact small drive that is ideal as a laptop external drive. I use it for system and file backup. Very quiet,
5|Inatallation was easy, backup successful and I can read the files selectively. So far, I've not had to recover from a failure of the C:\ drive in my system so I can't comment on that.
5|Works great with mac and pc. If you set it up for both then it works without even having to change anything between computers. Works well, like it was intended, no frills, just a massive storage unit.
5|Works great!
5|It works and it's cheap. Comes with cable. Can't complain.
5|I have nothing bad to report. Fast, small, and cheap. What could be better? I bought the Windows version, but then reformatted it for Mac, and it works just fine. I have a boot partition if something should go wrong, and I use the other 1.8TB to backup all Macs in my house. It's much faster than a network drive, even with 802.11ac Wi-Fi speeds on the newest Macs and Time Capsules. I really think every tech geek should have at least one of these in his tool bag.
5|Works great
5|GREAT DEVICE. WORKS AS ADVERTISED. !!
1|Bought this to back up the hard drive on my MacBook Pro. It WILL NOT back up a Mac hard drive, only social media data.
5|It's an m9t in disguise! Casing glued together, go around it a couple times with a blade and don't be afraid to bend the aluminium if you want to upgrade a ps4 or something.
5|Worked great I love it. Then it's so small it even works on my blue ray player
5|:D :D :D :D.. loving the color, loving the shape, loving the size, loving how quickly it arrived! PERFECT
5|Thanks!
4|To old an issue
3|I have had several Seagate backup drives over the years. they are easy to use. the only issue I find is that it takes way too many steps just to get to the files and there is no control as to how they are organized and named. Seagate does stand behind their products and the customer service from them is very good.
5|It seems to be working famously, but I've not needed to recover anything, so I may never know (I can only hope!). There is plenty of room for running the backup program continuously AND physically copying all my data and program files from a 1TB computer HD in separate subdirectories on the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Drive (Seagate 2TB), so I feel pretty secure about having very good backup options. It's quiet and stays cool - I wouldn't know it was on without the little light. Still, since the Seagate 2TB is almost always attached to the computer (for continuous backup), so it's nearly as vulnerable to physical theft as the computer. I appreciate having accessed several positive comments about the Seagate 2TB from several online reviewers before purchasing.
5|Works great with Apple's Time Machine. I use it as a back up for my MacMini. It loads really fast. It has a real quality look and feel to it. Price was great.
4|Great purchase. I took it out of the casing and installed it into my PS4 and it worked like a charm. What's more, I was able to place my old 500GB HDD from the console into the casing and use that as a portable drive. Good purchase for anyone who wants a low-priced high quality drive.
5|Got this to replace older, larger, external NAS device. This thing is awesome. Runs a little warm, but I leave it plugged in all the time, to hold all of my pictures. Then I can take it with me. USB powered, 4 TB! Incredible. They did a good job with this. Highly recommended.
5|exactly what I needed. like that it is slim
4|Easy to set up and functions fine. A great deal of storage for a reasonable price.
4|Shipping was efficient. Set up was straight forward and Drive is ,currently, performing as expected.
5|as advertised. easy to set up. great for small spaces.
5|Very pleased with this product!
5|Very reliable, light, easy to use.
5|Excellent service and delivery. Product very easy to install and intuitive.
2|Worked for a while. No longer picked up my computer
5|Awesome ext HD. Very sleek and solid. I put 30GB on it right out of the box and it handled it no problem. I was constantly checking to make sure it didn't overheat, and it held up fine. Writing speed is great with 3.0, and about what you'd expect with 2.0.
4|excellent drive works on mac and pc well!
5|Fast, great, huge, not horribly expensive, and reliable. If you deal in Terabytes and are on the go just get one or two of theses, and forget about space constraints.
4|Good product
5|A must-buy portable hard drive.
5|Works great, just as advertised.
4|Great device, small, quiet, 2TB a decent size, well worth the purchase. Only down side was the USB 3.0 cable was far to small, needed to be 2 or 3 times longer....
4|Great drive capacity and speed at a good price. Better prices exist elsewhere but I choose Amazon because of reliability. The drive works great but the Drive Activity LED was DOA. Unfortunately, I was having problems with my laptop just as the drive arrived and it took several weeks to work out the issues with my Dell Precision Workstation Laptop (I now have a brand new replacement from Dell) so this didn't get full attention until after the return period for Amazon passed. Seagate is sending me a new replacement drive (expedited at a cost of $9.95) and once that arrives I will update this review. My recommendation, if you need the capacity, buy this drive. If you can live with the 1.5 TB and 2 TB portables that Seagate makes - go that route, they are cheaper and I have never had a problem with one of them (I have several).
4|The hard disk is pretty good, expect I can't installed the dashboard. And I try to download the ntfs driver form the official website, but still can't installed. I'm using max osx 10.9.4. Can someone please tell me what is wrong with it?
4|A good hard drive at a great price.
1|Drive worked fine when I got it. Less than a month later, neither of my computers will recognize it. I do not want to return it as my passwords are saved on it and since I only paid $25 for it when it was on kindle special offers.
2|Normally I would have purchase this from Amazon and saved some money; this one I purchased elsewhere from a national dealer that supports photography writers I like. I think this back-up drive is EXTREMELY SLOW in processing files. I am using it on a 3.0 USB connection on a Win7-64 bit machine. It is significantly slower than the similar 1TB, USB2. Seagate external drive I use. I got it because I need the larger disk size. I use 2 other Seagate external drives so I am one of their customers. Due to the very slow processing of files, I do not recommend this series drives.
4|The product arrived on time and appropriately packaged. Use takes a some computer knowledge to hook up as the instructions are not that clear, although there is a website for help online. Good to have children that know more about computers that me.
5|I've been in the market for an external hard drive and when this was "Today's Deal" I just had to buy it. Looks and works great.
5|Thank you for this Solid Product!
5|Fabulous price! A true plug and play accessory! I backed up my entire laptop and am SO happy with how easily it was done. I gave it five stars because it was so inexpensive, had a huge storage capability, looked nice and worked fine! BUY ONE! You'll be glad you did --- if anything happens, you have EVERYTING from your laptop onto the new storage device. Plus, you can load all your photos into Google Drive (in the cloud) for 1Tb for only $1.99/mo too! This purchase was a total WIN for me!
5|Very light very comfortable
5|Works flawlessly. Just sits there quietly doing what it is supposed to do in a small amount of space. Couldn't ask for more!
1|File transfer rate is very slow compare to any other drives from Seagate. I should never buy this kind of hardirve in the first place so i will never recommend this product to any one.
5|Works great, tiny size is just what I needed
5|When I saw this on a Kindle deal for just 25 dollars, I knew that I couldn't pass up that offer for this kind of space. Just ten years ago, buying a 500 gigabyte hard drive cost me 300 smackers, and it was as thick as a Harry Potter book. This thing is about as wide as my Note 3 phone, and shorter. It's so tiny! Out of the box, I plugged it into a USB 2.0 slot in the front of my computer and it booted right up. The device is preloaded with a few documents, such as warranty information. In theory, you could delete them, but I've left them there just in case. Capacity shows as 931 gigabytes when looked at in properties. Generally, transfer speeds have been around 300-450 per second. I've transferred up to 70 gigabytes at a time onto the device and have not have any problems with freezing. The device does not run hot and remains cool to the touch. I have also run some games directly from this hard drive without any problems, freezing, or slow down. I cannot attest to the software that it comes with, or the mobile backup, as I don't use them. It's perfectly useful as a drag-and-drop hard drive in Windows Explorer. Its portability and plug-and-play capability means that I can take my documents and games to any computer I own. This will be really handy when I move to get a new computer in a few months. From what I've heard, USB powered hard drives aren't so good for use with video game machines, so if you're looking for expandable memory for a Wii U or something, you might want to look into an adapter powered hard drive instead. Overall, I'm really glad I went for that deal, but it's still a good value at regular price.
5|genial!!!
5|Works fast and easy to use. Small and compact.
5|This is a great Portable External Hard Drive. I did happen to purchase this during a Kindle Special sale for $25.00, so I cannot complain for that price. Actually, there is nothing to complain about - so far. I even dropped this, much to my horror, down a flight of carpeted stairs with it bouncing off the wall across from the stairs, and it works perfectly fine. Even at full price, I would recommend buying this, although if you happen to be prone to butter finger syndrome, I would buy a protective case for it too.
5|Purchased this drive to hold all my media files. The drive is connected to my Apple Airport Extreme and is accessible 24/7 without the need to have my computer turned on. It is whisper quiet and quickly goes to sleep when not being accessed. So far I am very pleased.
5|Great device and service from Amazon.
5|Works fine
5|This is a great drive. The slimmest on the market at date. I just transfered 20gb of vids through USB 2.0 under 10 minutes. I would love to see it in a 3.0. Compact, beautiful color (blue), and the finish is very good. I just backed up my iphone 5 and made a full backup of my pics and vids through the included software and the app. Very recommended.
5|I just plugged it into my laptop and started backing up.
4|I am new to using an external hard drive so I don't quite understand the automatic backups. So I am just using it as something I can just back the stuff I want to back up to keep my computer clear. if that makes any sense. Once I got it figured out I do like it. It is a great product.
5|Keeping fingers crossed no problems so far!
5|Worked perfectly with my PC and Mac. Lots of storage space. Decent price. A lot smaller in size than I anticipated... no complaints, though. Super easy to use. No problems.
5|Plugged this right in, and it setup fine. I had been through a lot of failures with WD back-ups, but have always had luck with Seagate drives. It is a lot smaller than I thought it would be, so this drive is incredibly easy to travel with. I know that the name says "portable," but this is one of the smallest portable drives that I have seen. Since it is USB powered, you can use this drive anywhere. Very happy with this product.
5|LOVE Seagate, never had one fail. This one is awesome, compact and powerful! Rosa Alonso
5|I took a chance with this hard drive as you do with any electronic device. The price was very good for the memory it has, and the reviews I had read, were mostly favorable. I use this device to store my weekend exploits on the water. I needed something to hold all the videos and pictures we take so that when I am too old to play, I can watch and re-live the fun. It has performed perfectly so far, with no glitches or hic-ups. I think it's a good investment for the money and a good portable solution to having to carry numerous usb drives or dozens of SD cards. I especially like the fact that there is no power cord needed. It just runs off the computer. Not aware of that when I bought it.
5|Bought it to have extra space on my Xbox One. Plugged it in, formatted it and it works like a charm. Went from 23% of hard drive space used to 8% of hard drive space used in a matter of seconds. If someone is looking for an external hard drive for an xbox one, get this one. Its also easy to hide and transport because of how small it is.
5|Small, easy to use, I love it! Have all my old home movies on it!
4|have not used this very long easy to install
5|Super small, stays cool
4|Wow, talk about portable! Works as it should, no noisy fan, nothing. I actually forgot I had it.
1|Sharp looking item but constantly stops working and even if the social media option is disabled, the system continues to access Flickr every time the software is started. After trying on another computer with the same results I tried to return the item but missed the deadline. Don't let this happen to you. Get a backup that works!
5|Good Quality Product,
5|Fast delivery, and works great!
5|Great for backing things up on an Apple!
2|This only works as a back up drive to computer and you have to use the software. If you want something you can drag and drop files to this is not it.
5|Excellent product, good design and small size.
5|Great
4|I'm using this to share files between my iMac & Macbook Pro when I travel. Works great!
5|This is a really great little drive. It's fast and quiet. It's small yet feels like a quality, solid build. I've used/have BU drives from a couple other makers; one would get 3 stars and the other 4 but this is the first drive I've had that I easily give 5 stars. I keep it connected to my laptop, through a docking station. When my backup programs run, I can't even hear the slim little guy run. It stays (relatively) cool even though always connected. Besides fast, quiet and solid, it doesn't use much power. I can even run it off the USB from my tablet keyboard which pleasantly surprised me. I shoot a lot of photography and wanted a small drive that I could backup to when traveling. The fact that this will run just off my Transformer Prime keyboard USB is great. That alone makes it a good deal. I don't use the Seagate software so I can't comment on that. Next time I need another backup drive, this will be my go-to brand and model. Highly recommended!!
5|I have owned a Seagate external hard drive before and it was great. This one is about the same size just a little smaller in height than my old 500GB external. Comes with the program that allows you to back up your computer which is a great feature. Overall a wonderful purchase.
5|Very slim love it
5|Love it - reliable, small, and fast! This backup my whole PC and hold extra files I can't store locally. The software is pretty good, after an update it stopped creating 900mb files on my local disk.
5|Great
5|No issues as of yet backing up my Mac Book Pro. Do a daily backup and have made only a minor dent in the total storage. Going to be a long-time partner in building up your digital history.
4|Brushed aluminum body looks nice. Very compact. USB 3.0 data transfer capability is a huge plus.
5|This is a first class HDD. I have bought two now and they are both perfect. Their size (both physically and storage volume) is amazing. The small physical size allows the drive to be highly portable: you can literally take it anywhere. The large storage volume makes it ideal for significant backups e.g. of a NAS volume. I use these to ensure that I have fully off-line back ups that cannot be accessed by some of the malicious virus software that can infect our online storage devices (in PC and MAC). Great product - it even feels special!
5|Great purchase. I'm a person that has a lot of pictures,videos,and music so this is a great pick up. Will be picking up another soon!
1|This product has failed after one month only, I lost extremely important data
5|Fasst and worked like a dream.
5|I can confirm that this hard drive will NOT work as an INTERNAL PS3 HDD. It should still work fine as a external vfat usb for PS3. I tested on a Fat and Slim ps3 the HDD fits in the slot but formatting hangs at 99% and will not progress further. It is a problem with the Sony software as no HDDs over 1tb are compatible with PS3 internally; should have done my research. I still gave five stars because other than that issue I can still use it as a external hard drive and it works excellent. This drive should work inside a PS4. I just wish Sony would apply whatever software they have to make it work toward the PS3.
5|Works great. Self setup and ready to go.
5|good.
5|Really good!
5|Works great with any version of Windows.
4|Good
5|I've used Toshiba before, they are great, never a problem but the Seagate seems as good and I like the colors. Must be my ? side showing.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive is very small, which of course is very nice. Smaller than any other drive I've owned, yet with 2TB capacity. And despite the small size it seems to be pretty fast -- reads seems to be about as fast as other USB 3 drives, though it does seem that writes are noticeably slower. Oh, well, the price of portability convenience. Seagate gives only a two year warranty, but this drive was smaller size than the competition and for this current need I decided to weight size highest since I've had good experiences with the other Seagate drives I've owned.
4|So far so good. I've had Seagate externals before but this one is perfect. Its slim, small with 2T! I can backup to this one for life (or, at least, my life).
5|Great Product! Would buy again.
4|Works really well without any issues. The only tricky part is if you are using an older computer with USB 2.0 then you may need to use the dual cable for power (included), just like the original USB external drives from a decade ago, still works great in such a setup but you'll have to dedicate 2 USB power slots to it if that situation applies to you, unless of course you have a newer computer or USB 3.0 slots.
5|Have lots of external Seagate drives but it is great to have one I can pick up and easily take it with me.
5|Very easy to use!!
5|This hard drive has worked great in the short time that I have used it. I'm getting fast USB 3.0 speeds and it has the smallest footprint of any of my externals. Its portability and speed make it a winner in by book, especially at the Amazon price.
5|Really useful device
5|very fast. i use it for backup as well as file transfers.
5|It fits my Requirement. Would highly recommend this as its original laptop and cheaper than what Apple is selling.
3|It backs up OK but keeps losing contact with the computer. (Mac OSX 10-9-4). Amazon exchanged it but the new one is the same, which suggests the computer is at fault, but Seagate have a software update for this fault. I've tried that but it won't let me install it because it says I don't need it! I have emailed Seagate and await a response.
5|Works great and connected easily to laptop with no issues at all transferring files. Nice for backing up our computer. The only thing that would have made this nicer would have been to include some type of case to help protect the hard drive after storing your important data on it. This is the first one we have bought that didn't include some type of storage case. Also shipping it in a box with air pillows or crumpled paper instead of an unpadded envelope would have been nice too.
5|It's easy to reformat it into HFS+ Encrypted disk. The speed was over 100 MB/s for read/write. The product is quiet and doesn't heat up after over 30 minutes of time machine backup. Time machine backup is still running. Let's see how it holds it. edit 11 Dec 2015: it still holds up well as my Mac backup
5|I really like this hard drive! Sturdy and quick speed sending videos from my PC to the Seagate! USB cable is short, but not really an issue, for me at least. Highly recommended
1|Interfers with other drives on the computer.
3|works good but there seems to be an issue going back and forth from laptop to desktop won't allow me to edit or move files. Even though I installed the programs that came with it on both computers, both are latest MAC OS versions.
5|very good item
5|I haven't had to buy a hard drive in a long time; the last one I bought was a 60GB years ago if that tells you anything. This is by far the fastest hard drive I have ever owned. Transferring folder from my old hard drive was extremely fast and with no errors. Too soon to tell how it will ultimately hold up, but I have been using frequently over the last 2 weeks and everything has worked great. It was the right price and had exactly the amount of space I needed, so it has so far been a great purchase.
4|Hold up well. As good as Dunlop's best balls.
5|I was lucky enough to get this in the special deals sale. It's really small...almost smaller then my Lumia 1520 phablet :) . Having 1 TB is great, my wife can easily backup all the pictures, files, etc on her device now. We have a Macbook Pro and it came with the NTFS drivers that it installed for you, so we can share between Mac and Windows easily, without the file restrictions of FAT on Windows. It's crazy how small and cheap HD drives are getting now! We keep all our media on there and play it off the USB drive (video works fine). Plug this into a Chromebook with HDMI out (Acer C720) and you have a cheap media PC.
4|good it is what is says, so it is what I wanted !
4|I bought this when the external hard drive I had used to back up my computer died. The backup software in It and in my prior external drive had never worked properly, so I've been doing manual backups. With the new Seagate, I followed the instructions and within a few minutes it was ready to operate. The initial backup was supposed to take 4 hours (I have a lot of pictures stored), but ended up taking less than half that. Subsequent automatic backups (which I've scheduled daily at 2 a.m.) have proceeded flawlessly. Due to something I must have done during the setup, it was backing my hard drive three times each morning. I corrected that after a couple of days, just by going to the "Dashboard" and deleting the link to the extraneous backups. Since I set it to deal with new and updated files only, these backups only take minutes or seconds. The drive is about the size of my wallet, so I can tuck it out of the way. Note that, even though it's not mentioned or shown, a USB cable does come with the unit. In short, I'm very pleased so far. If the unit keeps working without error, I'll be back to give it a 5-star rating.
5|Great
5|Got this while it was on sale and I have to say this product is well worth it. I use it mainly for extra memory on my Xbox One and I have to say that it runs flawlessly with no problems what so ever.
5|works very well on my IMAC and also on my PC laptop !
5|My favorite external hard drive! I'm a professional photographer and shoot very large scale weddings and this is so light and portable alowing me to back up on the go and fast. It's fabulous
5|Got it yesterday. I have a Mac, pluged in the back up drive. My Mac asked if I wanted to re-format the drive ( drive was formatted for Windows ), I said yes, 4 hours later drive was formatted ( my Mac is 7 years old, so not the fast one out there by far ). After the re-format, the drive did a automated back up of my whole internal drive. I love it, I have been using Read/write able CD's. Which take a lot of CD's to back up just the importer stuff, and a long time.
5|Great external HD for a great price and fast shipping
5|Nice and slim..does exactly what it is supposed to do.
5|This is the 3rd one of these things I have purchased. I have an SSD in all of my computers, but specifically my laptop. When I go traveling, I need to carry my data on an external drive and then bring along a matching external drive for backing up the work that I do while I am away. Prior to the release of this model, I had a variety of external drives by Seagate and other comparable companies. Even though they were portable drives, they took up a lot of space in my briefcase and, when I carried my briefcase around an airport terminal, they added unnecessary weight and bulk. These are very small units. They weigh a fraction of what their predecessors did. I recently outgrew 2 TB for my primary data. To accommodate that, I purchased this one just for movies and videos. The read and write speed is great. Fantastic product.
5|I have used Seagates in the past for backup drives and have been very happy with them. The price was certainly good!
5|Plug and Play works perfectly. I don't use the built-in applications to share my back-ups with Facebook however the size for this 2TB storage is perfect for backing up.
5|Cutting the cord and going OTA with my TV using my new 4Tuner TabloTV from Nuvyyo. Powered by a single USB cable ( no power cord) it is so whisper quiet I have it on my bedroom night stand.
3|Love the design of the product. No problems so far. The software user interface takes some getting used to though. I wish the backup restore had drag and drop functionality.
5|Lot of storage for such a small size. I love it
5|This portable hard drive is Awesome! I have never seen anything like it. 2 TB'S of space in this real slim little Seagate hard drive. Of course it was slow with my 2.0 usb on my older pc but I can not wait to put it to the test on my new laptop when I get it with 3.0. I'm just getting used to it for I never had an external hard drive before, but wow. It's easy after you get it set up. I just dragged and dropped what I wanted to and off she went. One folder with 390 GB'S of movies in 3 or so hours isn't bad considering the 2.0 usb port on my pc. And all my pics were a snap. Not long to download at all. Haven't tried all the other features yet, Cloud, Facebook, Mobile backup, man. I've done the research on external portable hard drives and I wasn't steered wrong here. I didn't know it could be so easy to backup all I need and then some. 4 thumbs up for Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0. A Great price here at Amazon too. Thank you!
3|The drive itself seems just great and is, in fact, 1TB as advertised. I've only just received it this afternoon so I'm not able to comment on its reliability over time. The reason for not rating it any higher is the ridiculously short usb cord it came with. I own quite a number of Apple products, Apple is famous for not having the longest charging cables themselves but the cord for my iPhone is more than twice as long as the one that came with this hard drive. To make things worse, the end of the cable that plugs into the drive is a USB 3.0 Micro B connector so I'm not even able to use one of my myriad other USB cables instead (because I'm old and I've acquired many, many cables over the years).
5|Love it!! Mac owners can't use set up as it is windows only but just call tech support and they will config for you over the phone. Supper customer service rep.
5|The best external hard drive i've got. I love the size and how comfortable it is to carry around. Excellent choice.
4|Works good
5|Awesome and affordable external hard drive! I really love the color and the user interface!
5|Great item. Works with ps4
5|Great product!
1|After only few months of usage, it is dead. I dont carry it around its been sitting on my desk since i use it as extra hard drive for my desktop.
5|This HD is fast! I could not believe how quickly I was able to backup all my data. Very happy with it thus far, worth the money.
5|Works out great for system backups. Have it setup with three partitions. Two for system backups and one for music, Win 8.1 sees it and uses it just fine. No issues. Small form factor and fairly fast speeds......
4|This drive works well with Windows 7 except for one major problem. I cannot start Acronis True Image Home 2012 with Plus Pack if the drive is plugged into my destop. I can see that the TrueImage.exe process starts, in Task Manager, but the GUI front-end does not appear. There are no error messages. I simply unplugged in the drive and I was able to use TIH 2012. I then plugged the drive into the computer and created a backup. While TIH was "calculating" the backup requirements, it threw up two messages similar to " cannot read sector xxx". I clicked Ignore to both messages and the backup proceeded and it appears that it completed normally. TIH has a stand-alone rescue CD and it will not boot when the drive is plugged into the computer. I believe that TIH rescue CD is running a form of linux. (??) In a similar vein, I am unable to run a utility, Hiren's BootCD 15.2, when the drive is plugged in. It throws a panic in the scanning equipment phase. In this case I had different boot results when the drive was plugged into a USB 3.0 port or a USB 2.0 port. I normally plug the drive into a USB 3.0 port, but I have tried to use a 2.0 port when the 3.0 port did not work. I use the PartED MAgic option on the HBCD to see SMART info for my hard drives. If I plug the Seagate drive into the computer after booting the CD and I try to scan the drive, errors occur. All other drives scan OK. BTW, I purchased a Seagate desktop 2TB internal drive at the same time and it is working perfectly. Any hints are appreciated. Jim
5|Very nice
5|Works great - super fast, small and light, powered over the USB data cable, drivers and everything installed flawlessly (I chose not to install the backup software, but only the NTFS driver). One nice plus for Mac/Windows interoperability is that if you buy the "Windows" version of this drive (which is cheaper), it comes with a free download of Paragon's NTFS driver for Mac (which you normally have to pay for). Of course you can still format the drive as native Mac HFS+.
5|Simply excellent, great deal for the price
5|Works as hoped, better than expected. Fast access times--the drive gets my data as fast as my internal drive.
5|I pulled out the drive with a little work and put it in my PS4 as suggested by other comments and it fits with a little room to spare. I then put the original PS4 HDD in the enclosure and formatted it and now have a 500GB external. My only suggestion is to be extremely careful opening the enclosure for the first time because it is a very tight fit and I put quite a few dings in the plastic by using a flat head to open it and the SATA board is also very tightly connected and easy to bend or break while trying to take it off.
5|I ordered this because i wanted a bigger size upgrade for my ps4. heard about this because of the samsung spinpoint m9t 2tb hard drive. it was a few bucks cheaper than the one that comes without the enclosure so might as well buy them together. I arrived a day sooner than i was told so i was happy and got to take a crack at it as soon as it came. then.. the hard part was trying to get the plastic off the top so i can get into it. broke a finger nail, flat head philips couldnt get in it, and finally somehow found a swiss army knife in the closet. jabbed that sucker in and twisted open, put a credit card right in between those wedges and then proceeded to twist off the other sides and i was relieved. just take the aluminum foil off, and then grab the usb sata connector taking it right off and voila.!!! i saw my 2tb 9.5 millimeter sata drive that i wanted. Now im just going to wait for my white ps4 to arrive.
5|This turned out to be great. Perfect, in fact. Fits great in my purse. Fast delivery, too. Thx!
5|Came just as I expected, well-packed, easy install, works great with my automatic backups Gets a little hot on the underside, so I always flip it over when I take it out of the USB slot for storage
5|Basic summary: the first 2 TB drive suitable for laptops -- eminently so. It's fast and all but dead silent. I bought this to scavenge for the internal drive (oddly enough, this sells for less than the bare Seagate M9T drive it contains). The fact that I got a compact USB 3.0 enclosure is a plus. I simply copied my data onto it, opened up the case (opens easily enough with a small slot screwdriver to pry the aluminum top away from the plastic bottom, peel back a few pieces of aluminum tape, carefully pull the drive out, pull the USB adapter off the standard SATA connector), put the new drive in my laptop, and put the old one in the enclosure. I replaced the aluminum tape as carefully as I could. The adhesive holding the case together's shot, but it snaps together solidly enough. The only potential problem is whether the aluminum tape is part of the thermal management, and if it will overheat. Worst comes to worst, I roach an old 500 GB disk that I don't care too much about and still come out ahead in the bargain. But at least initially the repurposed enclosure works fine. It's considerably more convenient doing the drive swap without a USB enclosure. While my laptop has two drive slots plus an mSATA, it would have been a multi-step process involving opening the laptop three times to shuffle disks around. The disk itself is all but silent. Even when copying lots of small files onto it and doing a diff (both of which tend to make the drive seek), I had difficulty hearing it even when I tried hard (the drive it replaces is louder). Performance-wise, looks fine. As a SATA drive, the sequential read is a bit faster (128 vs. 106 MB/sec) and sequential write quite a lot faster (98 vs. 57 MB/sec). It's possible that that difference is due to the operating system (mounting USB disks as fully synchronous for safety), though. It's a little faster than the 1 TB drive it replaced, perhaps less so than might be expected, but I'm not seeing any evidence that the firmware was crippled on it or anything.
5|I bought this as a replacement internal drive for a laptop. Inside the enclosure is a 9.5mm 2.5" SATA drive, which is exactly what I was looking for. Many laptops these days only fit these slim 9.5mm hard drives, and they are next to impossible to find in this price range. Running an SSD with this as storage is working out great, and although I had to remove it from the case to install it, I'm happy with the drive so far.
4|works as intended.
5|:)
5|Very pleased with the compact size, capacity, portability, simple USB connection provides power; no need for an AC/DC power supply.
1|Says there is an awesome sale in 30 mins, go to it as soon as sale starts and sold out....someone bought them all obviously, way to set a limit on the amount you can purchase. Whoever it is is making a killing of reselling these....
4|It is so small! Great quality!
5|One broken, sent back, got one again, has to store it carefully.
2|A year later and this is having the exact same issue as the one I replaced it with - the horrible external port. I use this drive a lot. I take it with me to work and to travels simply because I use it for what it is -a portable external hard drive. For awhile, the USB was doing fine - now it has a loose connection, disconnects when I touch it gently, and when I disconnect sometimes it almost takes the port out with it. I'm not sure if I'm the only person who has this problem but this also has happened with my last Seagate due to its poorly configured port. Now I have to find another external hard drive, simply because I am afraid that this will also be completely out of use as it was for my last hard drive. Disappointed.
5|Not so fat as I thought. Overall I satisfied with design, speed and ofcourse size. Speed is good getting around 80-120 on USB 3.0 and in-built back up software needs lot of improvements.
5|Excellent product! Love it and would buy again if I ever needed another.
4|It arrived in a timely way and was easy to install. It seems to be working but I won't really know until I need it - desperately. It is very light and small.
5|I use this on my Imac and also on my PC at work and it works fantastically! So much space and really good size to travel with!
3|I've bought about 5 WD Passport 2 gig drive in the past and i have handed out to relitives. Two have hard crashed. So only because I had to run out and replace them, i was only able to come up with Seagate drives, non of which have failed yet. To be fare, I don't know it they dropped them down the stairs or what, but Seagate drive seem a little more durable then WD. I really hate to down play WD, as I use there 4TB RED series Hard Drive in my Synology NAS, but this is the FACT and nothing but the FACTS.
4|It was as it was advertised.
5|Lots of space, and pretty fast, and VERY small
5|It perfect!! slim, light, totally portable
5|After my 2011 1TB Western Digital failed on me, I have started keeping 2 separate backups of every important file or memory. I have in all 3 portable hard drives, I really like the Western Digital My Passport (Yes, I am the customer who forgives) and then I needed a new hard drive so I thought my old 500GB Seagate still works, I might as well try another Seagate. First Thoughts - 1) This costed me less than a 1TB western digital passport. That's definitely a plus even if the difference was around 2-3 dollars. 2) The light doesn't constantly flash unlike my WD MY PASSPORT and this is good because it is a cool steady light. This means I don't have to disconnect the hard drive from my laptop when we both are asleep. 3) It is SLIMMER than the passport, lighter and more compact 4) For some reason it seems less noisier and it seems as though it finds the task of arranging data very simple. 5) Data Transfer between my macbook air and this is super. Tips - 1) Make sure you format the new hard drive. You can open DISK UTILITY and Choose to format MS-DOS (FAT) format. This way both Windows and Mac recognizes the hard drive well. 2) Like all computer drives, heat is a major enemy of your hard drive. If you are not accessing your hard drive, I suggest you keep it disconnected. 3) My WD died because I dropped it 2-3 times. This is perhaps why I forgave them so easily. NEVER DROP YOUR HARD DRIVE. 4) Arrange your media in different folders. I have it as "TV" , "FILMS" , "BOOKS" , "PICTURES" , "DOCUMENTS" ... this really helps. This comes with 3 years warranty so if it stops working, Seagate will give you a replacement hard drive. It has been a month since I got this hard drive and so far I must admit I am truly satisfied.
5|Perfect for my documents, passwords, taxes, emails, etc... backup and able to save it in my safe to be protected against fire. Very fast with the USB 3.0. Self power with USB port.
4|I use this hard drive primarily to edit HD videos on, often using it for 5+ hours straight. It's reliable, and hasn't crashed or corrupted any files. It does overheat after a few hours, so it's not the most heavy duty drive, but for the price, it's a good deal for the amount of memory you get. If you are using a Mac, make sure you format it before using it, or divide it to be used for both Mac and PC. For Mac specific use, the Lacie brand is popular and preferable, from what I've seen, but I only ever used this drive on Macs and had no problems.
5|Works great, no issues!
5|Nice units. Slim and very portable. Nice if they came with a case. Backed up quickly.
5|Great! Works exactly as I hoped it would. It was smaller and lighter than I expected for 1 TB (even though the dimensions are online).
5|Everything arrived quickly. No problems. Love the drive for my Xbox one.
5|Thank you!
4|I love this product! Very reliable :D
5|It has a lot of memory to store everything in my laptop and still have plenty of room left. I use it to keep all of my movies and anime and much more.
1|if you are looking for a portable back up drive and you are a Mac user - stay away from this. It allows file back up for PC's but not Mac only social media back up (who needs that)? I missed my "return window" so I'm stuck with a product I have no use for.
5|Nice size and price. Speed is good too.
5|I just got this, so consider this has nothing to do with longevity. But I just backed up my computer using the dashboard softwear. I just did the snapshot. I didn't time it, but think it was no more than an hour. There are 300gb on my computer. I checked and its all on there. So the usb3 gets the job done quickly. I will say that you have to click through a lot of levels to find your files when you want to check that they got saved. I think it could be easier to find. Having had trouble with flash drives, I decided to back up to 2 external hard drives. I have another older Seagate portable hard drive. They use the same softwear. I will keep one at home and travel with the other. I bought the 3 year restore files warranty from seagate for $39 so I figure this is less expensive than the cloud drives. It is easy to do and if it continues to work I will be happy with this purchase.
2|I'm a very non Techie and I was told this was plug and play. No such thing. It's aesthetically nice and small, but it was of no value to me. It worked well on my Windows laptop but will not work on my older Mac Power Book. I even wiped the drive and started all over. I'm running Leopard 8(?) and it keeps tell me to try another drive. Worthless to me. Additionally, I was under the impression the 'dashboard' allowed one to look at photos, etc. from the drive ... no such luck. Unless you are Gates or the late Jobs, don't bother. Had I not tossed the box, I would return. Now I'll just put it on Ebay!
5|Loving this HD, works seamlessly with my Macbook PRO and Windows Laptop !!
5|Where's that "We the best!" dude when ya need em cause that should be their slogan. LoL Fast reading, fast spinning, fast everything. The Seagate Portable Slim drive is full of surprises, holding unique programs made for both storing and securing files. A must have. When I say it's a life savor, I MEAN it. To be brief, my bulky 2TB WD MyBook Essential has locked my files for over 4 years! We're talking about 500GBs of data (music, art, movies, books, school work, photos, you name it) locked in there (and not just mine either). Geek Squad charged me over $200 just to take a look at it but I didn't fall for that price raising scheme - took it as a loss instead (temporarily of course)...years later my patience had finally paid off, leading me to THIS baby right here. Seagate is more powerful than people know. Look up their File Recovery program, use this drive to backup those files to and you will be in awe with the end result. Every single nano of a bite was placed directly in this drive (took about 4 days but the damaged drive was that severe). I'm being long winded here. LoL Bottom line: Seagate has a powerful hard drive that not only stores files (via drag and drop or their backup method) but also REstores them from drives that hardware stores would say "these files are too corrupt to fix" or charge you an arm, leg and a kidney to repair (yes, I tried many and they only made it worst). Hands down, this external drive is the best and is only 20% (or less) the size of my old bulky WD drive (oh yeah, and it's also 2TB) - go figure). LoL As long as that disc is still spinning you could be just as happy as I am. Just imagine what that's like, all created by your multi-talented self for years just handed back to you by buying another company's hard drive. Haha Who would've thunk it? Seagate "WE DA BEST!". LoL That's your queue right there ?
5|It's good to have one like it
5|easily set up plug and start using
1|This is the worst product I have bought! This is why you don't buy ELECTRONICS from AMAZON!! This drive was supposed to be able to back up my iPad and iPhone but it doesn't work.... I installed it and it says "Target drive isn't writable!!" so annoying.... I tried to return it and Amazon is the worst at returns! I contacted seagate and they won't call me back! Its the worst customer service! And of course the seller has my money so now i am screwed!
5|I've been able to put all my movies and photos here. Not just a backup device but anytime you want to see one of your movies it's right there without the downloading or restoring. Portable so I can take it with me and use on any computer as long as I download the software which is online so again the convenience is there.
5|usb 3.0...seems like close to 3X the speed of 2.0...I've had it a couple of months now...so far so good...so far I've had good luck with Seagate...previous SG external hard drive lasted 3-4 years
5|Great file backup system. It's very portable so I can take it with me in case of emergency or if I am traveling. I also like the backup software. I can do a one-time backup or have the backup run automatically at the time I choose. This is particularly good because I forget to do backups!
5|Seems to work well. Great for storing movies for the grand daughters.
5|great item, great speed, great size
4|Does what it claims it does, what it's supposed to do...what more is there to say? For an external hard drive, it's great...no problems to report, and I'd buy this brand again.
5|Drive working fine.
5|Clearly superior to "WD"!
5|Excellent drive. Have 10 pr more of various kinds and sizes including drobo. Even though they have a 4tb "fast" (model name) going beyond the 2 tb threshold to 4 tb has resulted in errors stick with multiple 2tb's.....
5|Great external hard drive. 2 TB is plenty big enough for storage. I couldn't believe how small and thin this drive is when it arrived. It fits in the palm of my hand - super portable. It works very well with my Mac computer.
4|So far so good. Very compact, feel solid. Averaging about 110MB/sec read and 105MB/sec write speeds over USB 3.0.
5|It does what I want very well. It is easy to install and use with my the software already available on my Mac. I did not try to use the Seagate software. I like that it periodically reminds me when I need to do a back up.
5|As expectef, fast and good.
5|Works great
5|Love, love, love! 1TB case for $69? Done. It's fantastic, super simple to back up my data and to transfer files. Very small and lightweight to transport around as needed. The only thing I didn't like was that the price kept increasing- it kept creeping up until finally every color but red was $78.99- and now I see that even the red has gone up to that price. Boo. But hey, I snagged the lower price and really would still be just as happy if I had paid $78 for it.
1|Store cancelled my order and wanted me to buy at a much higher price. I feel they should have honored what they listed it for.
5|Fast, sleek and visually appealing hard drive.
3|So far so good. However, the item did not work seamlessly with Windows 7 64-bit. This had much to do with the different treatment of USB versions 2 and 3 by the Microsoft operating system. However, Microsoft cannot be fully to blame. Seagate customer support was unable to identify my problem. I had to pretty much figure out the problem on my own by searching forums. This led me to a program called Discwizard that I downloaded from Seagate and was eventually able to use for my purposes. I am currently happy with the device and it works well with Microsoft OS and USB 2.0. It works well with Discwizard and USB 3.0. For the price, I believe it was well worth the purchase.
5|Works great just what I wanted
1|This drive is not compatible with my iMac. Every time my iMac goes to sleep the drive ejects itself and I have to unplug it and plug it back in or restart. Never buying a seagate product again, should have stuck with a Western Digital who has never failed me.
5|It was just what I want. Thank you.
5|This is the only way to get a 2TB hard disk drive for your PS4. Now I have plenty of storage.
5|I regret not having bought the 2TB version, this thing works great.
4|Nice and sleek-smaller.
2|Just got it 30th June 2014 and i am not happy. Not only is it slow to copy, it also dulls some applications on my system like my video players and other folders.
5|never had an external hard drive and I love every bit of Seagate Backup Slim (2TB). It's very thin/small and also pretty fast : I get anywhere between 80MBs - 120MBs via USB3 when copying large files. I have two partitions on it; one for Mac Time Machine backup (MacOS Extended FS) and the other for Windows and everything else (exFat). I haven't run any apps directly off this device -- it's not meant to be used as such. The internal Samsung M9T drives are optimized for large sequential read/write and, in practice, can achieve reading/writing speed of 120+MBs, according to various IO benchmarks out there, making it ideal for backup. Everything worked pretty much out of the box, though it also came with mobile/backup software I never use. The only downside so far is that the case seems to wear and tear quite easily. I've had it for slightly more than a month, there are scuffs, fades everywhere on the surface. I'm always moving around, so I probably need a case to prevent further cosmetic deterioration, but, otherwise, I'm pretty happy.
5|Wicked fast, small and compact. Use the included Paragon driver for Mac to write to the drive which is formatted for NTFS. The Paragon driver normally costs money, but you get a free version that only works with Seagate drives. The good news is it works with just about any Seagate drive formatted for NTFS, so if you have another seagate it uses the same driver. You can reformat it for Mac but then you can't see it on a Windows computer. I recommend the Paragon driver, I've been using it for years with various Seagate external drives over the years and it works perfectly. Please stop writing "USB3 cable is too short" in reviews for USB3 drives. The length of the cable is dictated by the USB3 standard. It HAS to be that short. Deal with it! Anyway, love this drive, highly recommended. I have an older 500GB version and it's still going strong.
5|Love it! A really great product, works great and is also very sleek, lightweight, and aesthetic. I would buy it again or recommend.
5|Backs up my laptop exactly as it should. This product is very small and highly portable. It is almost too small for my liking (I'm afraid I might lose the thing!)
5|I purchased 2 of these to take out the hard drive and put them in an OWC Mercury Elite Pro enclosure. It was very easy and worked perfectly. I have also put a smaller 2.5" drive I had sitting around back into Seagate enclosure and it works great as well!
5|Seagate has been the most reliable backup I have used. For a good quality external and highly portable HD - it is the same size as my smartphone - I highly recommend this product.
4|Nice small size! The previous seagate software I found to be better for managing backups.
5|No complaints here, would order from them again and would recommend this to my family & friends. Thank you again for everything!
5|Connects easy on Windows 8, slim, sleek and quiet. Good backup software included. Good speed over USB 3.0. The included cable looks very resistant.
5|This is my third Seagate drive ... always a good value and, I swear, they keep making these things smaller and smaller. I am a chronic backer-upper so I switch out my seagates on a weekly basis. Thank God I have never had to use the restore function but Seagate makes me confident all my files are safe.
4|The icon will sometimes disappear from the desktop and does not show up under Devices. Even though it is still plugged in , can't tell where it is located and cannot recall it. Have to unplug and then replug it for the icon to show up on the desktop again.
5|This device performs as advertised. Money well spent. I highly recommend as a backup solution. I intend to purchase another in the very near future.
5|Beautiful, runs like a dream with lots of space. Just what I needed to hold all my computer's contents during my move.
5|The price, brand and capacity were all positive factors in my decision to purchase this drive. This drive is also capable of being a good replacement drive for PS4.
5|Brought this so I could upgrade the hard drive on my ps4 and it worked well. Wasn't hard to take apart and the installation was simple. If you have a ps4, this will definitely come in handy since Ps4 only comes with 500gb and that's not enough seeing how many games are near 50gb to install.
5|Excellent article.
5|Very pleased with this portable Seagate EHD which is small, lightweight, and it's attractive blue color, is an added bonus! It is also easy to setup and easy to use. I purchased it to do system back for my father-in-law's laptop, and to do periodic back ups of his data for him. He doesn't generate a lot of data, but has frequent performance issues with his laptop, so I hope we can more easily restore his operating system and data on his laptop should it become necessary at some point. We have only started to use this disk in the last 2 days, so I can't comment on its long term performance. However, I have use other Seagate products and have been favorable impressed so I expect the same quality from this EHD.
5|I got this hard drive to put in my PS3, since I have PS+ and a lot of digital game purchases. This is one of the first 2TB thin enough to fit inside. YouTube has videos showing you how to do this in case you are considering it. I removed it from the case, formatted it to fat32 and have 4.60 firmware. It just displays an error that the hard drive is incompatible and won't go any further. It does physically fit inside the PS3. I have the newest super slim version of the PS3, if that matters. Since I have a PS4 that could also use it, I took the hard drive straight out of the PS3 and put it in the PS4. It worked just fine. I do not need that much storage yet since I only have a few PS4 games so far, but I'm sure it will eventually fill up. I am not sure what the limitation is, some people say 1TB is the maximum for the PS3, while others have said that they have 1.5TB working. I couldn't find anyone saying anything about if this 2TB drive would work, but apparently the answer is no. If you do get this working on the PS3 or have any suggestions, it would be really helpful. This is a good price for 2TB and I can now hopefully take the old PS4 hard drive, put it in the Seagate case and have a 500GB backup hard drive as well. This does not work as an external drive for the PS3 either if left in the Seagate casing. The PS3 doesn't provide enough power through the USB port for it to function. *As of firmware update 2.5 released on 3/27/15, the PS4 does now support backing up to an external HDD like this.* *four month update* The hard drive is still working great in my PS4. No problems at all.
5|This external hard drive is so small for its size. After filling it up with everything that I have I'm using about 25% of its full storage size and just loving it.
5|Easy to set up and use, small compact and quiet. What more could one want when traveling. I would buy thisagain.
4|This little thing is very convenient. It's resting at the back of the PC out of the way. I prefer a local backup solution, this covers it.
5|nice design...slim and small size...and the color is very exclusiv. If you buy it, you'll be satisfied with it. thank you for good product.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Fast 4TB Portable External Hard Drive is perfect for the job. No external power supply needed, it runs of the USB 3.0 and has a power booster cable if the USB power output is not high enough. I have had more than one External Hard drive with an external power source fail. Trying to get a replacement power adapter is always difficult and I had one drive where a power surge fried the drive itself. No such problem with this unit.
4|The drive is okay, it gets pretty hot and it doesn't always get picked up. I have purchased two of these and the same issues with both.
5|We bought this External Hard Drive to back up all of our photos after a close call with a wildfire last month. Great buy!
4|I'm only giving 4 stars because I've only had it about a week. So far the size, style and speed are awesome. I bought this external hard drive for when I travel internationally. I moved all my music and movies to the seagate and there were no errors or issues. No overheating. I will come back in 6 months to a year and update on durability.
1|The speed was amazing (220Mbps) but only as long as it worked, which was a few hours. I used it on a 2012 Retina MacBook Pro on Mavericks after formatting it to Mac OS Extended. It started taking quite a while to get detected and then the folders don't open. It worked fine however on my older MacBook Pro running Snow Leopard on its USB2 interface. Once I tried to repair it with Disk Utility and it restarted working on the Mavericks but then kept crashing during any big data copy operation. It even started making the system reboot. There's no point of a RAID0 device if I have to use it on slow USB2. Now, after a few more days its completely stopped working, on even USB2. Running Disk Utility tells me "invalid key length, disk repair failed". I fail to understand why a company like Seagate would release something like this!
5|While I do not like Seagate hard drives - I have had at least two die before the warrant was even up - it works great for what I want. I use it to back up my computer including all my photos and home movies. I than put it in my safe deposit box and rotate it with my other Seagate backup drive around every month or so.
5|I was looking for a 2TB hard drive to put in my notebook and replace the existing 500GB drive. After doing a bit of research I found that this drive was one of the best and cheapest options to do that. This backup slim external hard drive has a notebook drive inside it. How to replace the notebook drive ( I spent 3 days doing this so read up and save some time ) 1. Use Maricum Reflect free edition to make a disk image of your current drive and save it on a different external drive. 2. Make a Maricum Reflect System recovery CD/DVD, you will need this later. 3. Extract drive from segate backup plus slim. To get to it you would need to open up the case (which would void warranty) by using a thin screwdriver and following along the metal plastic edge which is held together with glue. I found a you tube video of it which helped ease my concerns. Carefully slide the drive out of the plastic case. Remove protective metal tape. Hold the drive and slowly pull out the SATA-USB controller on the pin edge of the drive(it comes out easily) 4. Shutdown notebook, remove the battery, remove exiting hard drive, put in the Samsung Segate 2TB drive. 5. Boot from the Maricum Reflect System recovery CD, restore drive image from external USB backup drive. Why do the image restore this way, cause I tried every other way and it didn't work. 6. Boot up normally, then resize partitions as needed. I used MiniTool Partition wizard home edition. This is needed if your old drive is smaller, so restoring the disk image leaves all the extra space as unallocated space. So I made changes to expand my main drive. Restart to make sure things work. 7. Once Windows starts you may start noticing some issues like Windows update won't run, other windows services fail. This issue is that the larger drives that are over 500 GB today use Advanced Format file system. So Intel drivers for the drive need to be updated. The solution is to install Intel rapid storage technology driver. I managed to find this on the HP customer care site. When I tried to get it from Intel directly, my computer failed to restart and I had to do a system restore to a point just before driver install. The one from HP worked (I have HP laptop). This process is not for someone who is not somewhat decent with technology, even then it's a challenge. In the end I have 2TB drive inside my laptop :) Cheers to all the risk takers who did it before me.
5|Our network system at wok has a habit of going down at the most inopportune times and I wanted to back up my personal folder on one of the drives, as well as my documents folder on my work desktop. Since I do that once a week, drive capacity is an issue and 2TB has proven more than adequate. While the download performance is not stellar in USB 2.0 mode, it is very fast in USB 3.0.
5|Primarly purchased this drive to store all my data in case of virus. This drive has a neat program installed that will continually bach up changed data. Have not tried to do a recovery so I can not say hoe reliable it is. Also, no way to shut drive off. Seagate wants it to run comtinusually.
5|This is a small hard drive that is roughly the size of a wallet. It does everything that is advertised, and runs exclusively on USB power. A very convenient product!
3|I needed format the drive to make it compatible with Linux. It's nice design but i was really annoyed when it doesn't worked in linux at first
5|Since Amazon seems to conglomerate reviews of similar drives of various sizes, I'll start by saying that this review is on the 2TB drive, STDR2000103. PROS: Great little drive. Very fast, very quiet, very cool. In one rough test, based on transferring a single 6.5GB file from a 7200 RPM desktop drive to the Seagate external via USB 3.0, I got a transfer rate of just under 100 MB/s, and a read rate (verifying) of 120 MB/s. The 6.5GB file was copied to the external and verified in 51 seconds. Almost everything you could hope for in an external drive. CONS: Be aware that Seagate used a different cable with a double connector on the micro end. This is a valid USB 3.0 cable, but you are unlikely to have one in your spares box. Unlike most external drives, where a standard USB-to-micro-USB cable can be used in place of the factory cable, with this drive you'll need the special cable. Amazon sells the cables for about six dollars, and it might be worth it to buy a spare if you are prone to misplacing cables.
5|another great product from Seagate. very slim and fast for my needs. The include cable is more than adequate and can be use with other usb device :)
3|Have an existing Seagate GoFlex 1.5 TB USB 3 drive which is outstanding and very fast. This one while only about half the total volume size of the GoFlex takes at more than twice as long to back up big files. On the same system with the same cables for a 50GB folder this one takes over an hour while the GoFlex takes 20 to 30 min. If you have the time, it is hard to find more capacity in a smaller lighter case than this one
5|I've been using this for a few days to move files between Windows machines - Vista, 7, and 8. It's been working great, easy to use, compatible with all of them. Good price for the amount of data it holds.
1|I couldn't make this unit work with either of my mac computers. Seagate Dashboard software didn't work, and I had great difficulty removing it from my computer after returning the item. Service enquiries were answered quickly, but solution was not correct. I had to go to the Activity Monitor to stop the damned software from running so I could delete it. Returned the item, and bought a simpler storage device.
1|There is definitely something wrong with the quality of this product. I've noticed Amazon has been selling shady items lately that don't meet typical quality standards. I created a time machine backup on this, and when I tried to reinstate the backup, there was nothing but error messages left and right. At first, I thought it was a user error.. however, my boyfriend is extremely technologically inclined and it's been giving him problems as well. We have purchased one of these from a big box store and have had zero issues. As a side note, I've also had a problem with an Apple Magic mouse and $1,000 3D projector - all purchased from Amazon within the past month. Save the few extra dollars and buy this from a reputable store!
5|This drive is truly fast. A nice upgrade from my previous 1TB Seagate. It's also very slim, a great companion for a ultraportable notebook.
5|Not much to say except that it is very simple yet perfect and working just as I expected (so far heheheh)
5|Seagate Is Always Best Brand In Hard Drive Market . Very Good Hard Drive
1|Bought it to backup my ipad and iPhone files as advertised. The device only backs up photos. It doesn't back up contacts or files( numbers and pages).
5|this portable hard drive is great value,it looks good and works as you would hope ,arrived very fast ,many thanks
5|Was a gift to a friend who had only the best to say of the drive. Sleek, beautiful and easy to work with.
5|This is my second external hard drive from Seagate. They haven't failed me yet. Really satisfied with the product and price.
1|Had to return it after spending hours with their tech support. Could not get the wifi aspect to function. Very disappointed!
5|Great product its very slim and lots of storage space! No complaints here, Great price for the product as well.
5|Have owned many Portable External Hard Drives and this is the best of them all so far. Thin, silent and 2 TB capacity, fast USB 3.0 data read/write. Even though it was an international delivery, the package arrived in 3 days, much earlier than anticipated. But the best feature is how seamlessly it works across the Windows and MacOS platforms. When connected for the first time, the setup program asks you right away how you want to use it and handles all the rest. I ordered 2 drives. 1 for backup use always stored at home, and another for carrying around with me to share files everywhere I take my MacBook Air. Other drives may let me access files on it on from both Windows and Mac platforms, but this drive lets me write files to it from both platforms as well. Whether you want to use it for cross platform or for a dedicated OS, I highly recommend this 2 TB drive. Thinking of buying more for use by my kids, too!
5|Works just as expected! Small, fast enough for what's it's used for, simple to use, and light enough to carry anywhere.
5|Thanks to someone else's review on the 2TB hard drive inside of this, I saved $42 buying this for the hard drive inside. Removed it and put in PS4. Took about 5 minutes for the hardware part. The hardest part is getting the cover off this case. It pries open around the edge, no screws. PS4 formatted it and installed firmware from thumb drive and running great.
5|very good speed and read write .. only i have issue with Samsung tv but with new pc with out any problem it is working
4|the 1 TB hard drive let me save all of my movie with out have to cut they down to fit
1|Got this drive, hooked it to my Win 7 64bit computer, driver installed, and it popped up in my explorer...so far so good. Looks really pretty and about the size and weight of my cell phone. I then tried to install the software, which fails (with no error message other than "failed") during the 64 bit windows step. I went to the Seagate site, nothing helpful. I tried downloading the latest version, exactly the same failure. I sent a message to Seagate support, still waiting. In the meantime, it's a paper weight. I've used other backup drives from various manufacturers, but bought this one based on reviews on Amazon. Hopefully I'll get a solution, otherwise it goes right back!
5|Got this to go with the Channel Master DVR that doesn't have much memory itself. This works perfectly and has way more memory than I'll likely need. No need to get the 2TB unless you like to save everything. I watch and then delete usually.
5|After searching for long time, this product is exact what I need. It works very well and the price is reasonable.
5|Small size. Takes very desk space. It is simple to install and use. Great backup device. Would recommend this to anyone.
5|This is an excellent back-up hard drive. 2TB gives me MORE than enough storage space to download ALL files and programs from my computer. It just recently save my life when my hard drive crashed. Fortunately everything was backed up. I purchased another hard drive, installed it, and downloaded my Image files. Don't forget to set up your automatic back-up schedule. It's amazing how small the drives are nowadays!
5|Great service. I'm really pleased with my product! Lots of storage and not big or bulky, so it's easy to transport.
5|No complaints thus far. It's seamless, great looking, and very very fast. Pleased with the product and would recommend it to others for sure.
5|I chose an area of ??4 terabytes, he is excellent and fast, but it is a little broad. If you intend to buy it I would advise buying this case to protect it from damage. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003WUBIZQ/ref=cm_cr_ryp_prd_ttl_sol_1
5|I purchased two of these drives to install in my laptop, as sold they are intended to be used as USB external storage but another review indicated that the 2TB drive can easily be removed from the case and used as an internal laptop hard drive. If you order the same hard drive that is marketed as a laptop hard drive the cost is $30.00 higher. If you are carful and remove the drive from the case with care, it can be reused with any 9.5mm SATA hard drive as an extra USB backup drive.
5|I replaced my PS4's stock 500gb drive with this new 2TB one. It's very easy to take this drive out of the enclosure. Just use a flathead screwdriver to pry the case apart. Slowly separate the two sides so you do not bend the aluminum shell. Now just swap the two drives and install the latest firmware. I now have 4x the space and it's faster than stock. Everything feels snappier and more fluid. Boot times and loading times have improved. This drive is worth every penny!
5|The included backup software is much better than the WD version for using with notebooks and other portable devices. Transfers data superfast when connected to USB 3.0.
4|this was bought to store important files, hard-drive backup, and a few movies as well. It works as advertised with the cloud base backup included...so far I've chosen not to use the included cloud plan because I have my own plan from another company.
5|I needed to be able to back up my computer weekly. This is a great help. The only great way to do this
4|Plugged it into my computer and windows recognized it as an external storage followed the prompts and about 30 minutes later the computer was backed up.... I am not to savvy with computers, but felt is was quite simple to use.
5|I took it out the package and I plugged it in and I was ready to go. I didn't use the software installed on it and just deleted whatever was on it since I prefer to manually back up to it, or use different software for automated backups. I've had trouble with the backup software that the manufacturer installs on these drives, so I've decided it's not worth the hassle, but your experience may differ.
4|Immediate confidence when you see the what this plug-and-play drive offers: a nice form factor for a 2 TB drive and it exhibits quality in materials and assembly- terrific for "the safe" or the "shirt pocket". Unfortunately, this drive is super-slow over USB 2.0 connections, much slower than my older generation WD Passport. It took over 12 hours to copy 1.3 TB in content over USB 2.0 (compared to roughly 5 hours to copy the same content onto the WD Passport). Yes, it comes with a USB 3.0-spec cable, but don't underestimate the range of equipment that doesn't even offer a USB 3.0 port for either "top" or "side" 3.0 spec cables. Of course, you can buy an add on card for a PC- but, so what? Plug and play USB 3.0 is at least a couple device generations from being "mainstream". The transfer rate over USB 2.0 with this drive should be better than that- not 13 GB per second, but much better. Buy this drive if you need: Portability and a compact form factor Nice capacity relative to its dimensions Don't buy this drive: if you DO NOT have a "device native" USB 3.0 port on the equipment you plan to use this drive the most with
3|Would have been nice to know its not really intended for a Mac or else have instructions on how to use it with time machine. There are no indications in the overview of the product that it is not Mac user friendly and it would have been nice to know before spending the $70
5|it is an awesome drive simple small and powerful works well and has all the capacity i required thank you
5|Nothing splashy to say - but it's compact and runs quietly in the background waiting to do it's thing during the night.
5|Perfect size, perfect product, shipping was timely and no complaints. I have not regretted this purchase one bit and enjoy it everyday.
5|First, its small. Does not take up hardly any of the room on your desk that it's older predecessors did. I like that. Second, I plugged it in, set my preference on when I wanted it to backup my stuff, and have not had to touch it since. Enough said.
5|We purchased this Seagate portable HD for backing up all our files from our 1 TB desktop. It is lightweight, compact, and fits easily in either a travel bag or even a purse. We have approximately 1.5 GB of various file formats on our desktop, and this HD performed its first complete backup in about 70 minutes. The operation was silent and smooth. We would highly recommend this item to anyone looking for a portable HD that can be stored in a safe deposit box or carried on your person or baggage when traveling. Coupled with a simple carry case that we purchased separately, it's well worth the investment at a great price at Amazon.
5|It's very ready easy to use and very portable. The program to back up took a few hours to back up but in the end I'm satisfied because it got it's job done.
5|I already have an older model of an external Seagate Hard Drive. The improvements are considerable. I love the easy access of the Dashboard and the fact that it acknowledges the other drive. Makes updating a breeze and does exactly what an external drive should do. Protect your stuff! I use one drive for a backup to save files and PC. The other is strictly used for pictures and videos. Plenty of room on both drives now. I would buy another if I ever have to.
5|Perfect!! Fast interface. Works with both Mac & PC. Great look and size. Huge capacity. And great color choices. Love it.
5|Very happy with the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive. Light, Thin, and fast. No need to download software to run. Love it!
5|I am very happy with the Hard Drive. I like size and the weight. It is so very easy to transport.
3|The documentation claims that there is a pre-loaded NTFS driver for Mac. I could not find this driver. Eventually, tech support responded to my query with instructions about how to mount the drive so it would work with Time Machine. There are no such instructions in the documentation. There should be. Aside from that, now that I followed their instructions, the drive is working very nicely with Time Machine.
4|The Seagate Backup Plus 2TB Portable External Hard Drive is an extremely reliable Hard Drive which is formatted into an NTFS format. NTFS is compatible with Windows operating systems, not Apples OSX. In order to make this hard drive compatible with both Windows and Apples OSX, then you must install the program as directed from the hard drive into your computer. This program then tricks you apple computer into thinking that the hard drive is running on a compatible format- After this single step you are more than welcomed to wipe the hard drive clean from all of the manufacturers junk. I have rated this to be 4 stars due to the fact that they did not inform me that in order to have this product compatible with apples OSX operating system, I would need to install Seagates software. Besides for this small misunderstanding its a great piece of hardware and should last you many years.
5|THIS LITTLE GUY IS SO SMALL AND LIGHT WEIGHT! IT DID EXACTLY WHAT I WANTED. AND THE BEST PART WAS THE PRICE!! WOULD HIGHLY RECOMMEND.
5|Suits my computing needs. It is an attractive and slim external hard drive. So far, so good. Would buy again.
4|As others have posted, I bought this to tear apart and install in my laptop plus it was cheaper than other options. I found a youtube video to show how to take it apart. Basically the two halves of the case are snapped together and also a little rubber cement holding them in place. After that there is some foil tape holding the drive in the bottom half of the enclosure. I was careful taking it apart so I could reuse the case for the 1TB drive I removed from my laptop. Great product and great price. It is slow compared to 3x RAID o SSD's but that is to be expected. I use it for storing movies and TV shows.
5|Replaced my Playstation 4 HDD with this one and then replaced the external hard drive case with the PS4's 500gb HDD and used that on my PC. The process was a piece a cake. You need a USB storage device that can hold about 1gb because it will ask for the update file for your current firmware so it can format the hard drive for PS4 use. The PS4 was firmware 1.71. Other firmware versions below this may experience problems. To use the PS4's hard drive on PC's you have to format it. Go to control panel > administrative tools > computer management > disk management > plug in the external hard drive with the PS4 HDD like you normally do then Disk management should refresh and show you multiple partitions (volumes). Delete them all > right click the HDD with all the unallocated space > format. I used quick format and it worked fine. You also have to assign a letter to it and it should be recognized as a external hard drive. P.S. It will show that you have like 1700gb -1800gb left, that's because the PS4 uses some of that space for various things + the byte size is measured differently.
5|Slim,fast, light, perfect for traveling in distant places like Angola. This has become my "Go-To" drive when traveling for work.
5|I was surprised by how small this drive was. Even though I bought the 2tb one, it was very slim. It fit inside my hands completely. I loved the glossy metal grey covering which gave the drive a classy look. Speed was excellent. However, it does tend to get a little hot when transferring huge files. It doesn't get burning hot but it does get considerably warm. I let it cool when it gets too warm and because it's made of aluminum, it cools very quickly as well.
5|Seagate isn't kidding when they say this drive is fast. I set this drive with Time Machine and was able to backup 250GB to it in just 20 minutes. That's 200MB/s write speed. The drive itself is quiet, but a bit heavy for a portable drive and it does get hot to the touch. I would not leave this connected when not being used. But it's fast, and huge, and for those two reasons I give 5-stars.
3|While I have only recently backed up a hard drive, I still have not been able to determine if the unit works, as I can not find a detailed listing of files that are backed up. It may be there, but all I seem to find is a short detail saying the start and finish times and the amount of space backed up. Even with a thumb drive you see each individual file on it. So I would say until I have the time to really check it out, I will with hold further judgment.
1|Drive is regularly ejected on this new IMAC when Mac goes to sleep. Forums are filled with similar problems. It seems that the newer IMACs are on such low power when sleeping that this drive (and some others) are ejected. Firmware and numerous calls to Applecare and Seagate did not solve the problem. The drive does intermittently re-appear, but can stay away for days. Thus, useless. As I understand from forums, this is not a problem with older IMACs (pre-late 2012).
5|This is by far the best price for a Hard drive of this size. Not only does it work great, it is also light, thin and very portable. Love the 3.0 USB for faster transfer rates....
5|Great little device and I'm glad I spent the money (not a lot of money) on it. Even better with a gift card.
4|Tis is EXACTLY what I was hoping I would get, as far as color, size and drive capacity. I rated it 4 stars because of the speed. Not bad, but it sure wont set any fires. It hooks up to a standard USB connection.
5|What can I add to that? I would buy another one or two with unlimited finances. This one has been working just fine, and I like having a full-time backup.
5|It voids your warranty but hey, why not? I now have 4TB hard drive space in my Mac by replacing the current hard drive with one and replacing the cd drive (didn't work anyway) with another using a hard drive caddy.
5|I purchased this product to backup my Macbook drive and I haven't experienced any issues. It's small and sleek which also makes it convenient to be carried around.
5|So far (1 months) it works perfectly: totally quiet, very fast (100 mb/sec. on average) and large, large, large space for my movie collection!!!! Fan-ta-stic! 3.7 Tb FOR REAL!!! I definitively love it.
5|I had made the mistake of buying a toshiba portable external hard drive recently, only to find that it only works on some computers, since it requires more power through the USB than most computers provide. This little gizmo is fast, VERY thin & light and works perfectly on every machine to which I connected it.
3|I just purchased this drive for my personal use and the G Drive Thunderdrive for my work computer. This drive was half the cost of the G Drive Thunderdrive that I purchased on the Apple website. This drive was half the cost but also took 10x longer to back up the computer. Granted, I do have more files on my home computer (photos, etc) but it took really, really long to back up via TimeMachine. I would recommend the Thunderdrive G Drive over this drive if you can afford it as the Time Machine backup takes 2-3 seconds and the initial backup takes a couple of minutes. The USB is pretty slow but I still give it 3 stars because the price is pretty good for the amount of storage that you get though it takes a while to backup.
5|Easy to move large files to and from a USB enabled computer, averaging 130mbs sustainable transfer rates. Planning on getting a third one soon.
5|I love my little blue Seagate! It's very handy and I use it all the time. Now I don't have to worry about losing info because I am still running WinXP.
5|Amazing little piece of equipment....anyone can do it, plus good for both PC and Apple.....works great, no brainer, plus good price.
4|This drive was easy to setup and has really fast throughput. It's nicely designed, compact in size and is the perfect replacement for my aging firewire drives.
5|I am using this with the included seagate backup software to backup pictures and place in a safe for fire protection because my raid arrays wont save me from that if it should happen. So far the hard drive is working great and fast on USB 3.0. The backup software is easy to setup. I just plug it in and manually start a data sync from the selected backup folders.
5|Good basic back-up device for my laptop. Performs as advertised. Reliable and uncomplicated. small footprint so it's out of the way on my desk.
5|Very portable and looks very nice I have bought and extended drive and I didn't like it as much as this one
5|Small Drive Great Price Reliable Worked out of box. I recommend this drive as a small portable drive, especially for photographers on the go who need to copy photos from flash drives as backup or free up space so they can take more pictures.
5|I have the June 2014 preview OS release for the Xbox One. It allows using an external USB 3 hdd for storing games and such on it. I've been using the 2TB version of this drive for a couple days and it is great. Very fast and the drive is incredibly small. My favorite feature, and the reason I bought it, is that power and data go over the same USB cord. So, I didn't need to plug the drive into a separate power source.
1|Crashed on my first backup and lost all data. Reformatted it and it crashed again. Seems to mount and dismount on it's own. If you need a secure backup drive this is not it.
5|This is my first external drive. I bought it to back up my computer files. I wanted something that does it automatically and that's exactly what it does. The set-up was simple to do and extremely quick. The software for it is already in the device and is straight forward and easy to use. I know just enough about computers to get myself in trouble. I called the support line once and it was GREAT! Got a live, native-English speaker right away who knew her stuff. The difficulty was how my computer files were set up, NOT the device. Now it just sits there and backs everything up without me having to think about it. I love that! Thanks, Seagate!
5|Easy set up and excellent portability. Great value for the capacity and price. No software to install. I would recommend.
1|I bought this in February and I've been using this about 4 months with my MacAir. Suddenly it stopped recognizing in my laptop and lights are keep blinking. Tried to find the answers from the support page from Seagate but no help. I'm not satisfied since it seemed like all my files suddenly disappeared with this problem.
3|Works great for timed backups, but not so much for backing up my computer while I install a new operating system!
5|Works perfectly fine in my new MSI Dominator Pro GT70-890 2nd hard drive bay. Use screwdriver to pry open case. Has a simple USB 3.0 SATA adapter that I'll probably be reusing in another project.
5|I am using it for both PC and MAC, it is exactly what I was looking for. It is very compact and light, it can easily fit into back pocket of your jeans. I just opened the box and formatted it for both MAC and PC, and now regularly using it across. No extra hassles before u start using it. Go for it!!
5|These drives of which I have purchased 4 now. If you need lots of space for media and large files this is the one for me.
5|It's beautiful, lightweight, simple to set up, very fast, and incredibly small. I honestly don't know what more you could be looking for in an external. I LOVE it- it's more than I hoped it would be!
5|I needed a hard drive compatible with Mac OS 9 and USB powered. This device has performed very well in the approximately six months it has been in use. It has performed well even though it is connected to and then disconnected from a USB port daily.
5|The item is small and very portable. It has the same ,memory as my larger unit. I can easily care this and attache to other computers with ease. The item arrived as promised.
5|haven't had any problems and I've dropped it about a half dozen times.. though not recommended that has to say something...
5|I use these all the time. This is my third portable drive and not because they fail but because I use them for different things. The Seagate is great because it is very user friendly for setting up the back-up schedule.
5|This drive has fast response times, and a very portable size. Less clutter on my workspace. Best of all it works with my Mac, and Time Machine.
1|The hard drive doesn't work with Time Machine even when configured with Mac file system... useless I had a LaCie that worked beautifully I should never have changed brand
4|just another hard drive, i used to have WD but it died on me so i had to buy another one and this was on sale so i had to get it, it has usb 3 so that's all good.
5|I bought this for the internal Samsung Spinpoint M9T 2 tb hard drive and it did not disappoint. Removed it carefully and installed it an a HDD caddy for my aging Laptop. Good Buy considering that WD Essentials back up devices have their Harddrives PCB soldered with the USB ports directly.
5|These drives are excellent. Sturdy, fast and reasonably priced. I love Seagate drives! These are great for just running off usb power, you can't beat them. I also bought some for gifts.
5|very compact but powerful back up system. Would fit in any small portable tote but big enough on storage capacity to handle just about any computer.
5|It was a snap to install and configure to take backups the way I want to, and it seems to be doing an excellent job (I tested a few files to make sure they were recoverable). My mind is now easy that my critical files are backed up and won't be lost if my computer hard drive fails.
1|I bought this for the auto backup software. So far, all it does when I open it is crash. I'm on an hp laptop running Windows 8.1. I've uninstalled and installed the latest version from their website but same result. It opens for about 10 seconds, and then crashes. Very disappointing.
5|Arrived on time, well packaged and as described. Works great and is fast. This is my 3rd Seagate HDD and I have no issues from any of them
5|Its want i needed to put my precious family video and pictures. its very light and portable and i have no problem with it.
5|This drive is just what I was looking for. It added a 1 TB storage to my laptop and it needs no external power supply. I use a Thermaltake cooling stand for my laptop and this Segate Slim Drive is so small it slides under the cooling stand, out of sight. I will seldom attach it to my other computers. Just desired additional storage for my office laptop and this works great!
4|The external hard drive certainly gave me additional data space. It was so easy to plug into the USB port and does its job.
5|This drive works great as a backup drive for my iMac using Time Machine. It's physical size fits nicely on my desk,plus it does not need a peer plug.
4|very easier to install and quick download great product I recommend this product and slim size with 1 TB portable space like a bigger Samsung cell phone feel solid too price is good with lots of reviews to back it up it's claim
5|It was obvious that my current backup drives, at 500GB and 1TB, were becoming inadequate for all the things I wanted to back up, including photos, audio recordings and music, so adding this 2TB one makes me feel much more secure. I've been using this drive with Time Machine on my Macair for two weeks now and it really does seem to be much faster than anything I've used before, although I still like the ones I continue to use - both Western Digitals with smaller capacities. I was also pleased to be able to get a different color from the two black ones that I already have, which makes rotating backups easier. The color of the drive pictured on Amazon is fairly true - a deep, rich, almost regal red color (I found the color 'carmine' in the dictionary - its description suits the drive color), and I find that the dark red color is complemented nicely by the more crimsony red neoprene rooCase I got for it.
5|I just received the 1TB External Slim Hard Drive and immediately called Seagate Customer support. They answered promptly and answered my questions about the plug and play of the hard drive. Very professional and courteous. I started a complete system backup on my HP Elitebook 2760P laptop/tablet PC. What normally used to take about 36 hours on a 1TB HP external hard drive took less than 10 hours on this 1TB Seagate External hard drive. It is small, compact and to my surprise very quick. The tech support advisor told me that I could keep it plugged in without any concern or worry. That he kept his plugged in always. So since it has it's own power source from the USB cable, it obviously does NOT over heat. The Seagate backup plus slim 1TB portable External hard drive is about the same size as my IPhone 4S, slightly smaller in length and slightly wider in width. I could put it in my shirt pocket, it is so thin and small. Great buy at less than $70.00. Appears to be well built and sturdy.
5|Design is so good. Speed, Size and Weight are also nice. I hope it is provided an own case of this product.
5|I was looking for a 2TB 9mm 2.5" drive for my laptop, and there aren't any. Then I ran across this Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB External Hard Drive. I ordered one and it works perfectly. Here's what you have to do to use it in a Windows PC: If you are going to use this drive as your boot drive, first you will have to load an image of your boot drive onto it with software such as Aconis True Image, then proceed to the next step. If you are using it as a second drive, it is already ready to go. Next, pry open the case at the seam with the edge of a knife. It is stuck together wit some sticky glue, and comes apart without too much effort. The hard part is getting the first "bite". From there, just work your way all the way around the case. Then carefully peel the foil back that is holding the drive in. (This foil has an adhesive on it, but comes off pretty easily without leaving a residue on the drive.) Just be patient through these steps, and avoid putting any pressure on the drive itself. Once those two steps are accomplished, the drive and controller come out with a little coaxing by prying very slightly on the non-controller end of the drive and case. Then all you have to do is unplug the drive from the controller and mount it into your laptop. Viola! You have a 2GB laptop drive! If you have another 9mm 2.5" drive laying around, use it in your now-empty external USB case by assembling in the reverse order of disassembly. Works fine with the WD drive I put in it.
1|I bought this hard drive over than a month ago. It worked well until yesterday, and the it suddenly stop working. When it was working, it is a good hard drive, fast and looks good on the outside. But it must be poorly manufactured, the hard drive is extremely fragile. I handeled it with precaution and it still managed to broke. I'm really disapointed...
4|This is a good back up drive so far. I bought this as a back up to my back up. I have this seagate and a toshiba. I wanted two different brands in case one turned out to be a lemon. And yes, I am paranoid.
5|I found this to be a great deal and very reliable! Would recommend this to a friend. Great great product
5|Sometime the simple and easy route of plug and play is the best way. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is a good example of how far backup solutions have come in the last few years. It's extremely compact, quite portable, and for those still using computers with USB 2.0 ports, it's a forward-looking device for when a computer with USB 3.0 is in the plans. But first, here are the basics... ? Likes: + Compact and sturdy; measures 4.47"L x 2.99"W x 0.38"H + Lightweight; just under 5.3 ounces + USB 3.0; can be used with USB 2.0 computers + Works with Windows PCs (Vista or higher) and Macs (O SX 10.4.8 or higher) + Easy plug-and-play setup on both Mac OS and Windows systems + 1 TB (terabyte) capacity; about 930 Gb useable space formatted + Runs quietly; offers excellent performance + Reasonably priced; excellent bang-for-the-buck ? Dislikes: - None found so far ? In Use: We all have different motivations for purchasing and using external drives like this. Some use these for photos, others for video storage, and some as a backup device for all files. In my case, the primary dedication for this external hard drive is for running automated backups in as hassle-free a method as possible on a Windows 8.1 notebook. And compatibility with both Mac and PC was an important standard as needs can change over time. But for now, automation was the key. ? Seagate Dashboard This drive comes with Seagate Dashboard 2.2,x installed. I was skeptical as first due to issues had with this software in the past, but decided to give it a shot. When brought online, it offered the free upgrade to version 3.0.3x, so I went with it. Ran a number of backups and restores (the hard drive was already backed up manually to another device), and it performed flawlessly. It has recently been upgraded to Seagate Dashboard 3.1.3.0, and each small upgrade seems to make it better. ? Summary: My need was for 100% reliable backups of thousands of documents, photo files in JPG and RAW format, and everything else on the computer's hard drive. This Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is one that I can highly recommend to anyone in similar circumstances as I've described here. It offers true plug-and-play operation out of the box, and in conjunction with the Seagate Dashboard software, does it effortlessly at a reasonable price. JW ? 5/22/2014
5|Better then expected. Like the small size, fits anywhere like there is no extra power cord. Just plug it in and it worked
5|Small and compact yet powerful this little drive is perfect if you move between different computers. I use this to keep all my email data files and set up each system to recognize that as a connected drive to my PC or laptop. It allows me to keep historical emails at hand without having to maintain them in the cloud or online via my mail service. It easily fits into a pocket or slips into a purse or bag. Highly recommend this for anyone who wants or needs a portable drive that can also be mapped as a connected drive.
4|Setup is almost trivially easy. The drive is really fast as they promise. I use it for routine backups. It has cut the time of my backups in half. It is also really small and light so a good portable drive. I do not use it portably. The drives fast speed makes it good for desktop work.
5|If you are looking for a small form factor external drive, it's hard to beat this model from Seagate. It's not the absolutely fastest drive I've ever used, but it is fast enough (and, yes, it is USB 3.0, but I believe it it a 5400rpm SATA drive inside), and because of its thin style and the fact that you can get it all the way to 2Tb, its a great drive for external storage. I use mine with a MacBook Pro (formatted to OS Journaled, but you can format the drive to all file system; it comes pre-formatted with NTFS, which is a huge time saver if you are using Windows because formatting a 2Tb drive takes a very long time). It's quiet, too. So, it serves well the purpose for which it is designed, and I wouldn't hesitate recommending it.
5|This is my best ever exterior drive. I use it primarily for my art work photos and art projects. It is light and so easy to use.
4|I love the smaller size. I had a 1 TB drive that was almost full and I needed more space. While pricey, and it took almost 12 hours to back up 1 TB @ 12 mbps, since I don't like to have any encrypted files or be reliant on software to do the backup, it is now my main drive and my 1 TB can be the backup. No hiccups in the transfer, and I had issues with having two WD drives and they had the same drive letter, and it was frustrating. This drive seems G2G and now I have some space. Plus I can use it on my iMac without reformatting. The picture online makes the drive look bigger, so check the specs. It truly is smaller than I anticipated. I'm not likely to use Seagate's software as I mentioned, but when you have 8 drives with sizes from 512 to 2TB and now 4TB and 4 laptops with which to share files, and the cloud is what I look up visibly to view, I feel this is worth the expense.Oh, I do recommend using the double cable for transfers via USB 3. My USB 3 laptop was obviously faster. iMac 27 testing continues. I do a lot of media work on both platforms. I hate to say I am "bi-platform", but ya gotta have the space and go back and forth on platforms. Recommended fer sher.
4|Arrived right on time. No issues installing. Rapid response moving files & folders. It is half the size of a much i Tetragig drive. Good solution for back up and portable drive to take on the road.
5|I bough it for my sister because she want very slim one so when i gave it to her she was glad and happy :)))))))))))))
3|I wanted a backup that I could access through all my devices and wasn't clear on how it worked. The Seagate firmware and software are great and i love it. I was however overwhelmed by all the apps that told me I could do all these things that were never possible. It is fast and I am overall happy that I bought this unit.
5|i can't remember when i purchased my last external hard drive, but it didn't do a very good job of keeping the total KB's up-to-date. when i tried to download my phone pics to it, it kicked out two or three months of camera photos. no biggie except my pride. both of my ext h.d.'s are Seagate and, if the new one lasts as long as my last one, it'll be bonus points. and what i REALLY like????? it's so SMALL! thickness equivalent to a half of a deck of cards and the measurement around is somewhere between a regular set of cards and a set of tarot cards. i love the size!!
5|reality that is slim HD and hight recommend for any need to a small item =) less than iphone =)
4|my last seagate was quite good and i've stored many files on it. Recently, when i pluged my old seagate, it has click sound and i was afraid it didn't well so i have to start my backup. This product is perfect for me. When I connected this with my 3.0 usb SS, the speed for copying the files is very fast, 70-90 or even 100MB/SECOND. I only gave 4 star is due to the online registration. There is some tech problem when i registering online. When typing the S/N number, their offical website cannot recognize this S/N number. I was so afraid that I brought a defective product. Then I went to their Facebook and many customers have the same problem as i have. Several days later, seagate customer service gave me another link for the registeration and it worked. To be honest, this is a good product if you are looking for some hard drive with good quality and customer service.
5|bought this for my mom for christmas because is a picture hoarder and she needed more space, but with 500GB, thats more than enough for her! would recoomend!
3|I purchased this after reading various reviews. It had the capacity I liked, was small and lightweight, so it had a lot going for it. On the downside, as one other reviewer has mentioned, it has a thin strip-like LED activity light that pulses when the disk is active. As the previous reviewer noted, the rate at which this pulse occurs is actually quite slow, so you need to look quite carefully for several seconds to work out that the disk is writing. Other disks (Toshiba, I think) use a color-coded LED to indicate whether the connection is USB 2.0 or USB 3.0 as well as showing disk-activity - which appears a whole lot more useful. Overall, however, if you are looking for a small, performant, lightweight 2TB external drive for backups or other portable media uses, this is a fine choice. Just be prepared to stare at its indicator light for a while and wonder whether it is doing anything!
5|This is just what I wanted. Slim, light, and nice finish. Very reliable since I bought it 3 months ago.
5|i love this product. This is the second one that I have purchased and have zero problems with it. I would highly recommend it.
5|This works fine and is my first version 3 unit, I have one more space for a version 3 unit. this works fine software is good
5|This drive is at least 20% smaller than the 80GB drive I bought several years ago.....amazing leap in technology. It is nice not having to worry about a power cord(USB powered) Great product for sure.
5|I use a bunch of these in rotation as replacement for tapes used to store copies of backups off-site. I have not had any issues so far. Size is perfect and speeds are fine for my needs. Overall I am very satisfied with the performance of the drives, and different colors help sort out which drive is for week A, B etc. I'll be buying more.
5|I've always been a self-proclaimed techie. My friends are always asking me for advice when it comes to computer hardware and when it comes to HDD's I always recommend Seagte products. I was a little skeptical about buying this HDD at first simply because it was the first 4TB FULLY portable external HDD on the market (I tend to shy away from first generation products since they tend to have kinks to be worked out). But to my surprise this little beauty works amazing! It's only about 1/3 of an inch thicker than a standard portable, has an painted aluminum case, and doesn't get too loud. If you're using it for long periods of time transfering data it will get a little hot but it cools quickly thanks to that sexy aluminum casing. Delivery was alot faster than I anticipated as well, I received the package in 12 days after placing the order. (which is pretty good for hitting a moving target in the middle of the ocean on the other side of the world, I'm in the Navy in case you were wondering.)
5|the product was good, it arrived well, no more things to say. Good bye and thank you. Good Bye now.
3|The drive itself works fine. However, Seagate's installed backup software is so terrible that it is a trap, in my opinion. First, I assume if a file is locked/in use by another program at the time the backup is run it cannot be copied to the backup drive. However, there is no notice of this, and looking through the files I saw that my Outlook PST data file was not backed up since I normally always have Outlook open when using the computer. I also saw what looked like failed later attempts to backup the "updates"--the file's folder was copied, but not the ~1 gig file itself. Second, there is no capability to overwrite old updates, so over time updates will accumulate and the drive will be full. Probably the only practical way to delete files is to delete the entire thing. And it seems drive-full notifications only pop-up briefly then disappear, so the user may not notice that nothing further is being backed up. I haven't tried restoring files with the software, so I can't comment on that. Also the software would not install on XP 64-bit (which I was running when I bought this drive in 2012), or at least not to the point I had patience to figure out. But it installed well on Windows 7. The bottom line is if you use the installed back-up software, you should have another backup of your files somewhere... I have another hard drive where I simply copy and paste my documents to once a week.
5|A tiny external HD with a great 2 terapytes capacity. It works great. I also have the 1 terabyte HD, and it's full, that's why I purchased this one. Being USB 3 makes is quite fast.
5|Quick and easy. You plug it in, install the preloaded software, register, and go. It took maybe 5 min all together. The color and finish are sleek. Its very small; it could fit in your pants pocket. I love it.
5|For a great price, this external hard drives does exactly what I wanted it to do and easily backs up my data.
5|Much better transfer rate than my 3 year old 500GB drive and really hums on USB 3.0 ports. Quite light as well.
5|I've used Seagate drives for years now based on their reliability compared to other brands of external hard drives. The problem that these products in general have faced for some time is that more and more of us are relying more heavily on mobile devices with no USB ports. Seagate has approached this problem with a mobile app that allows you to backup or move items directly from your iOS and Android devices to the drive when working within your home WiFi. I've been using the iOS app on several different devices and found that the results were good, although the speed of moving some photo/video content was nothing to get excited about (more my home network's fault than the drive, but just a fact to consider). The drive itself is very slim, very portable (although I'm a scratch fanatic, so a carrying case would have been appreciated), yet feels substantial adn well-made. It includes a USB cable for use with desktops and laptops. Seagate quality with this combination of capacity, portability and utility with mobile devices makes it a great buy for anyone running out of space on their devices or who wants to back up their unique content.
5|Really thin, small and stylish drive. 2TB is a lot of space for such a small package Blue activity lite doesn't illuminate entire room like on other external drives Decent write/read speed for a 5400K drive (both 110-115 mbs) Very satisfied.
5|Purchased as a backup device where I can load movies/photos on and then plug into my smart TV. Can be used with a Mac or PC and is super easy to setup and operate, very straight forward. Have never had an issue with it. I would purchase this product again.
4|Now that I'm up and running, I'm well pleased with this little device. It is literally less than 1/10th the size of my older 1Tb backup, about the size and thickness of an iPhone. Initial setup was a bit of a PITA. The enclosed software pretended to reformat when I chose a mac-only setup, but the mobile app installed on m ipad said it wasn't writable. The Seagate knowledge base was of no help, nor was a google search. Also couldn't drag & drop & finder info called disk read-only. I called technical support & he had me check the disk via Disk Utility & could see it was still PC-formatted. Reformatted via Disk Utility, then had to delete and reinstall the mobile app to stop the writable error. Now the mobile backup works fine--but you do have to leave the app open and up front for the backup to continue, which is pretty annoying. But since I'm only using it to backup my photos & videos (I used iCloud for the rest of my data, but I don't want to pay Apple anything extra, so I've been backing up my other data manually). Just so you know, the mobile app only backs up photos and video, so you'll still need to do a regular iTunes or iCloud backup if you want the whole shebang backed up. The crappy mobile app is why I'm taking off a star. Otherwise, for regular storage, it's great. Fast, compact, and very easy after initial setup. If you're doing Mac and PC version or PC (preloaded), you probably won't have any difficulty--and if you're using a newer Mac OS (I'm still on Lion), that might not be an issue either, so I'm not deducting a star for setup, just know you may need to manually format (used 1 partition, GUID partition, Mac Extended journaled--not case sensitive--for the settings).
4|For the most part, there's really not a lot to say about this drive in comparison to others. Everything one would expect is here: solid transfer speeds, quality build, svelte looks, and reliability (some will disagree with this last but, in my experience, Seagate is just as good as the rest). What makes this drive a "go to" drive is the size. If you own Seagate's 500Gb Slim, you know what I'm talking about (this 1Tb version is a bit thicker). if you don't, dig around for whatever 1Tb portable drive you have handy. Now, cut the thickness of that drive into almost half and you've got this drive (the actual dimensions are listed below). What makes this drive worth the price (if you can get it on sale) is that you get the same storage as other 1Tb drives, but at half the thickness. For many, this won't matter, and I can certainly understand that. For those who are packing things tight, though, saving 1/4" on the thickness of a portable drive can be a big difference. I can now easily carry this portable drive in it's own pocket my messenger bag, rather than having it rattle around in the larger pocket with all the other doodads that don't have a good spot. Combined with the fact that this drive will run off a standard Micro USB cable (albeit at USB 2.0 speeds), this winds up being a big advantage for "road warriors" and geeks. Is the drive worth the cost? That's hard to say. If you can get this on a decent sale, I would say yes. I have all sorts of portable drives, but since getting this one I find many of them are gathering dust. It's just hard to pass over the tinned form factor for this drive. I will, however, point out that the Toshiba Canvio Slim is more or less the same price, but manages to shave 1/2" off the length. Personally, I trust Seagate a bit more, but that's personal preference (I also like the look of this drive more).
4|This is a nice portable drive that I use regularly as a time machine backup for my mac. Allows me to have a backup wherever I go without adding a lot of weight. With USB 3, the speed of the backup is also pretty reasonable.
4|Seems to be working pretty good for now - though I've only had it for a month. i read good reviews and expect it to be a good drive. as fast as they said it would be.
5|Seagate is one of my preferred hard disk makers. This is a light, ultra compact and portable, if need be, 1 Terabyte hard-drive. Pros: Reliable maker Thin (9.5mm) very quiet 2 year limited warranty Fast (It's a bit slower if you have USB 2.0 but it's still quick -it is VERY fast if you use USB 3.0) Works out of box with Windows- but can also be configured to use with Macs Intuitive user interface for backup- can be used for easy social media, mobile devices PC backup, and has restore function Mobile app for mobile backup is for andriod or IOS Cons USB Cable is a bit short for use with a desktop Gets rather hot with extended use I ended up using some black duck tape to tape mine to the top of my towercase. Otherwise the cord was too short for it to lay anywhere(they do make cable extenders and longer cables but I wanted mine on top of my case anyway) and it slides around. Now I never notice it's there. I like this drive a lot - it's very easy to use and is very functional with nice software that is user friendly for a very competitive price.
4|This is a really good product for those who use both a PC and a MAC. The hardrive works well with both so that you can transfer files to one another. It did crap out on me at one point because I tried to format it on my PC. It seems to work okay on my MAC. I have not tried to transfer files from one computer to another since this incident.
5|I used cycled this drive as one of my backup drives for work. It works decent enough, and I like the slim feature. 5400rpm HD USB 3.0, backwards compatible with USB 2.0 and 1.0 HD Tune specs: USB 3.0 - Average Read/Write speeds 89/85 MBps (limited by HD speed) USB 2.0 - Average Read/Write speeds 28/22 MBps (limited by USB2.0 speed) The backup software is decent. However, I use a script in windows for my backups, which I've been using since the XP days. I modify the script as needed, and I have yet to encounter any problems with it. Basically, I backup to two separate portable hard drives (including this one), and I bring one home and I lock the other one in my desk. In the month I've been using this drive, I have not encountered any issues. On my first backup attempt, about 580 GB of data of various file types and sizes took about 3.5 hours to copy onto this drive using a USB 3.0 connection. The average data transfer speed was 45 MB/s. It took about 5 minutes longer to copy onto this external drive than copying the same folder from one internal SATA HD onto another internal SATA HD. Not bad. I've encrypted the entire volume using TrueCrypt, so I don't have to worry about privacy issues if I accidentally misplace this drive... or if it grew legs. Overall, this is a highly portable yet very usable external HD. Light enough to carry in my shirt or pants pocket, yet large enough to carry a large amount of files. Strong 5-star rating. Highly recommended.
5|I use this device for Windows backups after loading bitlocker. The cable could be longer, but it runs quietly and the small size is great. It was a very good bang for the buck.
4|The drive probably has about the same amount of mass as my smart phone... it's a little shorter, a little wider and not much deeper. It is about half the size of my old external hard drive. The quickstart instructions involving plugging it in using the provided USB cable (and it worked on every USB port I tried, including the USB 1.0 port). One then launches the setup file from the drive, but the setup file then proceeds to download the actual setup wizard and application. My quibble with this is that some of us out in the boonies still have very slow internet and it literally took me longer to download the software than it did to backup the drive. I understand that one wants to be able to upgrade and fix bugs but couldn't you implement patches, or at least give us a version of the app on the drive? To backup just under 2 gigabytes took about 45 minutes. That was using a USB 2.0 port, which is all there is on that computer. I was a bit worried when it seemed like the "power bar" wasn't moving for the backup... it doesn't. It shows how much of the drive has been utilized, i.e. not much! Very slick, easy to transport, seems quite sturdy. So far, I'm a fan.
5|Fast and reliable, mine has been spinning for 6 months now non-stop and functions perfectly. I use this on my iMac for external photo storage and it gets used pretty heavily. Highly Recommended
5|What a joy to install and to use. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB Portable External Hard Drive is the easiest - and maybe the fastest - backup storage device I am using, perhaps even better than the Western Digital backup storage devices I have been using. Installing it was surprisingly easy and fast. I highly recommend the Seagate's drive's Seagate Dashboard which allows users literarlly almost a push button-like setting to determine when and how often they want their laptop's hard drive backed up. This is also the only device of its kind that can be used easily between a Windows Operating System laptop and an Apple laptop. I highly recommend it.
5|This backup drive meets all of my current needs and expectations. I highly recommend it for anyone who needs to save large quantities of images or files.
5|Great device, and the third one that I have owned. Other two are smaller capacity drives. I have had not problems and travel frequently with this device, yet never had a problem. Highly recommended
5|I have owned and loved previous editions of the Seagate Backup Plus and this is just as excellent as previous ones, except that this one is even smaller. It is as long as the first one I got, not quite as wide, but it is only half as thick. If you have, like I always seem to do, used up all the space on your laptop hard drive, having this amazingly small 1TB external drive can be a life saver. I use mine primarily to story media files - comic books, ebooks, digital copies of movies and TV shows, music files, audiobooks, what have you. And, of course, you can use it to back up your key files.
4|Pros: Plug and play, portable, quiet, nice design and extra storage space. Can run in usb 2.0 mode using a blackberry or android phone charging cord on the big end of the plug in the back of the drive. Excellent experience with Seagate customer service 1-800-SEAGATE. Write speed is right around 75mbs while transferring large movie files. The drive is currently formatted in exFAT with a file allocation of 32768 kb. (I do a lot of work between Windows and Mac) Cons: can’t really find one. If I have to name one…it doesn’t have a power switch and does not work with WinXP sp1. None of these matter to me but I guess it would be a con.
5|I work for a Fortune 500 IT company and I got a chance to ask actual IT technicians how they feel about Seagate and specifically their external Hard drives. To my surprise, Seagate is their top choice with regards to external hard drives. Since I'm using this drive with WIN primarily, for Photo backup, and at some IT personnel’s suggestion, I am not installing the additional software, since my laptop was able to install a driver automatically. In the past, I had some issues with my PC recognizing the Seagate External drives that are supposed to work for both Mac and WIN, but not with this one. As far as photos from my iPhone and iPad, I can easily transfer them to this drive when I have them both connected (via cable) to my laptop.
5|So far so good. I removed the drive from the enclosure by prying apart the case with a credit card, removed the SATA-USB 3 interface, removed the foil, and now had a bare 2TB drive to put into my laptop. After cloning the drive I did just that. I now have a 2TB HDD, actually replacing a 1TB SSD that was too full!
5|This is truly a great device to hold and move all your storage needs. Music and Movies are no problem. The usb power cord makes it even better than plugging it into the wall socket every time you need to use it. I really love this Hard Drive, you will too, I only wish it was esata to make it faster because I don't have 3 usb on my P/C.
4|An external backup drive is only as good as its last backup. With this line of 1TB external drives, Seagate encourages frequent use with a combination of transfer speed, capacity, and eye-catching sleekness. These drives are powered by the speed of a USB 3.0 connection, making them easy to use with more than one computer, especially if you run multiple types of computers. Drives are about the same length and thickness as an iPhone 5, and just a half-inch wider, so they are convenient for road warriors and anyone who practices redundant offsite storage. I've put these drives through their paces by copying files to them manually by dragging and dropping. I've also designated each of them as the archive destination for my archiving software (both Time Machine on my workhorse laptop, as well as Ghost, which I still run on an older computer), and they have performed well. I've also taken one of these drives on the road, and used it for daily backup. Its small size and relative speed made it an excellent travel companion both in flight and on the ground. When I'm in the midst of a project, I run A-cycle backups with one drive on alternate workdays, B-cycle backups with a second drive on the remaining workdays, and C-cycle backups once a week, alternating between a third and a fourth drive. I store both of the C-cycle drives in a secure, climate-controlled location offsite. If you archive this way, or would like to, you might want to take advantage of the variety of case colors. Although these drives are versatile and suited to a variety of settings, their small size and relatively low power draw make them an especially good choice for travel backup and for ongoing offsite storage, as described above. They ship with a robust cable.
4|Never used the one I got from Amazon because I returned it when I found a better price. But the other one I got was very fast. Great slim form factor. I would invest in a higher capacity drive if the 4TB was not actually 2 drives in RAID configuration. One fails and your screwed.
4|Fast drive, great size, quiet and easy. I had no problem attaching this to my older desktop MacPro and my newer Macbook Air. I really love how small it is but that it's still 1TB. I can keep whole projects on the drive and not worry about not having enough space for things. I like it - it's an awesome little drive. I stopped using the software after about 10 minutes. I don't usually bother with bundled software anyway. So, I didn't like or need the software and skipped it - your mileage may vary.
4|It was very easy to install, basically plug and play. With it's compact design it easy to hide behind the DVR.
3|I haven't had a problem with this drive, and I've never had a problem with my other Seagate drives with using them on both Macs and PCs, but... my editor has told me that this drive is not the best for putting Mac video files on here because sometimes they just don't show up on the drive even though they are secretly there. I'm not sure because I haven't seen this myself.
1|Bought this to use on my Dell desktop and Dell laptop. It won't work on ANY of my desktop 3.0 USB ports, even the high power ports. It will only work on my laptop if I use an Expresscard adapter that has an auxiliary power supply to boost the supplied power. Same problems when I tried to use it on a friend's HP desktop. On my laptop I found it was about 2.5 times faster than my older 2.0 USB drive. So it works on some systems but my advice is to buy another brand. Aug 2014 Update; Per Seagate I've checked and updated the drivers for all of the 14 USB ports on my laptop and desktop. This hasn't helped at all. BTW, all ports are rated for 500 ma. This unit is still power hungry, won't operate without some aux power and I wouldn't buy another one.
5|Even smaller than I expected and working like a charm! Awesome value for the price! Highly recommend this unit for anyone looking for extra storage/backup!
5|Worked very well, no hiccups of any kind, fast, accurate and my data is safe. A good price helps a lot.
4|I have had 3 other external hard drives all of which I were satisfied with. All were Seagate. Therefore I stuck with this brand when choosing a model to get more storage space. I like the fact that it's small and slim making it extremely portable which was important to me. I also like the speed. The main thing I don't like is the connecter cable is different than the "standard" cable used on the previous models.
5|Product was very easy-to-use. No problems at all backing up info. Still early but satisfied so far. Anyone can install this.
5|this hard drive is compact with plenty of space for my needs. No power supply which makes it totally portable. Great compact size.
5|Nice ! fit in your pocket , really slim and relatively fast external HD drive I would recommend to a friend .
5|Great product
5|Not so thiner then the others, but beautiful and useful! Good brand...fast uploads, downloads... I am really happy with mine.
5|attractive, portable and functional this unit works well for anyone. Highyl recommended for students or for sudents. a good value too
5|My 1TB was too small for needs so I upgraded to this unit. I haven't used a lot of portable externals before and have always gone with Seagate. What I love about this new one compared to my previous (about 2-3 years old) is the small size and weight. Seems like it's just wider than one of the early iPods but much lighter.
5|This is my second Seagate portable hard drive I buy and once again VERY SATISFIED with this brand. It worked right out the box. I transferred lots of data in just minutes. I read somewhere here it did not have a led light to let you know when hard drive is working. Well......that is not truth, it does have a light and it is very noticeable. I do recommend this hard drive to any one looking for a slim high capacity portable hard drive. Get it now don't wait anymore.
5|2tb ,good price. Relatively small considering it's 2tb. Hasn't Givin me any problems. Pics, backup, movies, music anything u want and it easily fits in pocket or backpack
5|Huge in capacity small in size. I formatted this baby to fat32 and plugged into my Samsung Galaxy Note 2 using an otg cable. Now I finally can get rid of the storage running out message on my phone. 5 stars from me. Im not using the supplied software. Not what I need it for.
5|I extracted the drive for my PS4. It's been working well, however, I find that sometime after a system update, or my son turning it off completely, I have to long press the PS4's power button to get it to spin up. I don't think it's a problem with the drive, but rather with the PS4 system. Sometimes even from completely off, it works just fine, thus the 5 stars. I'm so happy to have more than enough storage for the foreseeable future.
5|This little (in size but not capacity) drive is a marvel. It's recommended on wirecutter, runs silent and cool off laptop USB power, and is superfast on USB 3. Highly recommended after a month's hard use !
5|Its great.its useful and small . lm glad to buy this i tem.l can offer you to buy this nice product.
5|I have had no issues with this backup drive. I found it very easy to install. I am happy with the platform on this system. I love the fact that it is very easy to go back into the drive and locate specific files to copy after I have delegated them off my main system.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 500GB. This is my 3rd Seagate I have 2 other 500 GB units as well. They have been reliable and I've never had any problem with them. Stability and reliability are so important when saving your family photos and documents.
3|Open box, plug it into iMac and it works fine for Time Machine backups. Only been in use for three weeks, but so it if has worked. Last one, which was identical to this, failed in less than one year.
5|I purchased this to use as a back up for 25,000 pictures from my Mac iPhoto library. But I wanted to toggle back and forth between the Mac and the home PC. After reprograming it to handle both platforms, it works exactly the way I wanted it to. Just plug in via USB to either Mac or PC. Bought a second one to give to my college aged daughter to back up her laptop school work.
5|I am backing up two mac book pros and storing media. Also ripping my dvd collection seagate drive is meeting my needs.
5|I needed to upgrade an existing, smaller drive. I have my smaller, portable drives color-coded for at-a-glance recognition. This one fit the bill; as well, I've had good experience w/ Seagate. I just wish this one had the same connection port as my others so it could be used in the Seagate "docking stations" I already have.
5|For the price this is one rock solid unit. I use it to store my GoPro videos on and it works great.
4|So far, this drive has met all expectations. It's quiet and extremely portable. Although, the first thing I did was encrypt it with a 3rd party tool.
5|This thing is tiny. When I say tiny, I mean that it is about as thick as my Moto X with its slim case on. It is a bit wider and about as tall as the phone as well. It is silent and is very fast in its download/upload speed in my highspeed 3.0 port. Transferring 200 gigs of data didnt take long at all. Data access off of the drive is fast as well. I would definitely buy it again!
5|It's really great. Too slim, so that I can carry in my jeans pocket very easily. Transfer data as specified. Don't heat up after long use.
5|Lighter than what I had expected, very quick delivery. The transfer speeds are as advertised. I don't use the Program provided with the drive, so no comments there.
4|Have made one backup at this point. Was easy to use and backup appeared to work well. I suppose the true test would be a successful recovery from backup files, but I haven't had occasion to do that so far.
5|I love movies but they don't all fit on my laptop. So, I decided to get a backup hard drive. Honestly the best decision. I have over 30 movies on here and its barely filled up. It's simple and easy to use.
5|Large enought to hold backups and personal data. Very easy to use with any computer program. Fits in the comuter case for travel
5|Slim, small and packed with included software for backing up your files. I would recommend this as a good buy.
5|Awesome device for backing up and transferring files. More Safe then backing up to the internet! Must have for graphic designers.
5|I used to have a Toshiba Canvio external hard drive, but it lacked in good software like the seagate. The Seagate has a decent continuos back up software, however, I find it annoying to clicking through the numerous folders to get to my files. The build quality is what makes it shine with its brushed aluminum look and feel.
5|Perfect external hard drive. Small and compact yet does the job without a hitch. We purchased one and then decided to buy another.
5|I was very happy with the delivery time and the hard drive turned out to be exactly what I was looking for. I'd recommend this product to anyone looking for a high quality 1TB hard drive that is very stylish, portable, and compact. Enjoy!
5|Wow, what a nice product, couldn't be happier with a backup hard drive. This is a compact, durable, easy to operate and portable drive. Using Windows 7 I had to do nothing in hooking this to my HP laptop. It is a plug and play product and does exactly as it is described. Highly recommend this product to anyone needing extra storage or backup drive. The Seagate software that comes with this drive works well and does what is described to do. Five star rating for this product was easy. Great product, good price!
5|The sata to 3.0 usb makes for a very fast transfer rate and it holds my data really well. 10/10 would buy if I hadn't already.
5|This is the second Seagate 1TB portable drive I have. Use them for external backup on our two desktop computers.
5|for a drive to just move large amounts of data around, this is hard to beat. very small, portable and fast. Great for when your work laptop is out of space and you have some stuff you need to take on your next trip. A good solution for an extra backup too, in addition to cloud storage and other media. put your photos and important things on here and keep it offsite but handy,
1|Cute and slim, but broke down after 3 months, all my videos and photos were lost. It is an unreliable unit, however amazon is excellent, does not compare to the seagate customer service.
5|Received the Seagate Backup Plus Slim about a month ago, I really have nothing bad to say about this portable hard drive. I'm extremely pleased with this purchase! I was in the market for something small, fairly sturdy & can back up through the cloud. It's painless backing up my phone using the Seagate Dashboard to the Backup Plus. I also save a lot of videos on mine which I am able to plug into my smart TV and watch whenever I want. The fact that it is USB 3.0 compatible cuts down generously on wasted time backing files up and saving files. I generally take it with me to home, work, and occasionally even friend's houses so in the past month it has received a lot of movement and experienced multiple computes. Haven't had any issues so far! Overall very pleased with the product so far.
5|Gr8 little gizmo. Really cool piece for backup of my more than 5000 pics. So east just plug and play.
4|I'm using it as a DVR for my Tablo.tv over the air TV streaming service. The HD works great and I would recommend this product to everyone.
5|I purchased this drive to use as a backup for my 1TB MacBook Pro so I image the entire drive weekly. The transfer speeds are as fast as some of my Firewire 800 drives but with considerably less bulk; excellent product!
4|I like it - it works fine, but data transfer is a little slower than I expected. small profile, no external power required is a plus
4|Works for my needs. So far so good. Only complaint is it is slow to write, but to be fair my computers only have USB2.0. Read speed seems snappy. I don't use the supplied software so can't comment on it..
5|This is my 4th Seagate. Haven't had any problems with any of them and they are all still working just fine.
4|I would love to give this 5 stars, however even a few weeks after purchasing the drive does not always mount on my mac and can take quite a long time to gain access to the drive. I am worried it will not last very long. Other than that the drive is incredibly small, quick, and convenient to use
5|It took a bit longer to arrive, but this hd is simply amazing! Very pleased with it. It's stable, extremely fast. Thanks a lot.
5|Very happy with this. I was able to load all my programs and files. It was very easy to figure out and it is small and compact.
5|The Seagate Plus Slim 1 TB hard drive is a great choice for portability due to its lighter weight and slimmer height as compared to the other 1 TB hard drives. The speed is reasonably fast and is comparable in speed with my 1 TB Seagate expansion 1 TB drive which costs about the same. Video streaming from this drive is also great and smooth. It is great choice for carry storage on-the go.
5|I love the disk.It's very compact. Works great. More memory for the price. Easy to set-up and back-up the files. Arrived on time as promised. Thanks for the deal!!
5|I'm reviewing the Fast 4 TB version of this drive. This is a RAID 0 (also known as a striped volume or stripe set). I bought this drive as I needed more space and higher speed than the typical portable hard drive. This drive fits the bill perfectly, and does a great job so far. It's significantly faster - data processing off this drive is a lot faster than the single drive version. Also, having the extra space is quite useful. Overall, I'm a happy customer. Assuming this drive lasts as long as normal portable hard drives, then this is the way to go. Given the fact that it uses two drives, it is twice as likely to fail. Hopefully that's twice as likely starting from a very low probability. :)
2|Like : Great look. Slim and easy to carry Dislike : The drive seems to switch off automatically during back up process. Secondly the seagate dashboard software was not able to detect the hard drive - even the tech support couldnt fix it. Without dashboard we cant use the cloud backup facility etc.... Thus it caused some kind of discomfort while using this device hence i had to return this product.
4|Setup was a breeze. Size makes it ideal to carry with your laptop or camera bag to backup your images
5|I needed to transfer files from PC to MAC and I was able to quickly get the job done with this drive. I would recommend this to others.
5|Killer price. this is a great little unit. Easily fits into my fire-proof box, Seagate is awesome, i recommend totally
5|excellent product and a great price. quiet and does not overheat. I could not be happier with this product. :)
5|A good, high quality product that does exactly what I wanted it to. I would recommend this to anyone. :)
5|perfect for my needs. Easy to setup and maintain. Use the backup utility that comes with your laptop and it'll work like a charm.
5|small, sleek and very simple to just plug and use, very happy my choice. great value for your money. word
4|Very smaller and enough capacity. Moreover, It's very cheap. good. and shipping is good. no late. I like that. If you want 2TB Portable Hard drive? Choose it. :)
5|Not much to say about this drive. Huge storage capacity, very small, build quality is excellent, high transfer speeds. I highly suggest you get it, just make sure you format it when you plug it in to get rid of Seagate's bloatware.
5|It's almost the same size as my Samsung 4 phone! It's a great device and I highly recommend getting one.
4|Really nice and slim. It's lightweight. Transfer speed is quite fast. Did some video editing directly from it, doesn't heat up like the WD passport I previously had.
5|Still using this piece of hardware with my HP Laptop and it operates nicely. Still going strong after daily use for almost two years. Quick detection and never lags. Great device.
5|I have it for about 3 months. It's really slim, looks great and works rapid, no problems. I trust seagate since 2002.
5|Seems everyone has an app these days. You'll need to download the seagate backup app if you want to save stuff from your Android or Apple devices. This can come in really handy for people that never backup because once it's setup as soon as your device is within range of your wi-fi network it backs up any pics or video from your device to the external drive. So if you lose your device or it breaks you don't lose everything on your device. Even if you don't want to set all that up you'll still need to install the seagate dashboard software that comes with the drive that is preformatted NTFS to turn off the lights or test the drive for defects. It's great to see that Seagate finally provides a way to test their drive on Macs! In the past you were stuck with using Windows to test. Also, since it's formatted NTFS you'll need to install the Paragon NTFS driver from Seagate. It's only version 9 though so technically it's not supported in latest OS X Mavericks, you need version 11 for that. I've been using it in Mavericks and it seems to work okay enough. You will have to format it Mac OS filesystem if you want to use it for Time Machine backups. Performance is decent for such a small drive around 110MB/s read/write. At first I thought it might be using an SSD inside since it's so small and quiet but you can hear the spinning drive inside if you put your ear up to it. Hopefully , since there's no vent's it won't be a problem and it doesn't seem to get hot so far. Seems sturdy enough so far been carrying it around in my pocket since it's so small and it's way better than old externals that weighed way more and also needed a power cord!
4|* Review on the 1TB Drive * At only 4-1/2" x 3" x 1/2" the drive is much smaller than either the 2.5" (laptop) or 3.5" (desktop) SATA drives. It's also lightweight (5.3 oz) and requires NO external powered. That's right, it is completely powered by your USB port. All of the above makes this drive ultra portable. 1 TB fits in the palm of your hand! Imagine that! (Do be aware that the drives with the larger 2 TB and 4 TB capacities are thicker, perhaps 1" and 2" in thickness, respectively.) I did a test and determined the write speed is about 193 Mbps on a USB 2.0 connection. For the test, I transferred 1000 JPGs (~ 3.5 MB each) from my hard drive to the Seagate Drive. The transfer took 165 seconds. How I calculated the Mbps: (3,990,187,998 bytes)* (8 bits/byte) / (165 seconds) = 193463660 bits per second ~ 193 million bits per second = 193 Megabits per second = 193 Mbps The *theoretical* speed of USB 2.0 is 480 Mbps, so 193 Mbps is really quite good. If you have a USB 3.0 port, the transfer speed will be even faster. --- I've had a 1 TB Seagate drive fail after mere months -- and I lost years of RAW files and irreplaceable memories as a result. To be honest, I'm still peeved. Always have a backup!! Still, I'll give this one the benefit of the doubt. It's compact, fast, and hopefully more reliable than my old Seagate drive. If it does fail again, I'll be sure to update this review.
5|This is great , the backup software that comes with this is even great I have this thing backing up all my files automatically.
5|This is very Slim External Hard Disk with USB 3.0 connection. Data Transferring Rate also around 80 MBps. I am very satisfied for that value! Also USB 3.0 Short Cable with this HDD, that is very useful to me for carrying purpose! Strongly Recommended Product to Others!
4|... like Dropbox,WiFi File Explorer PRO or any of the other multiple options out there for today's connected & well-informed user of all things digital. As has become the norm in recent years, however, Seagate offers up another well-designed and efficient backup option with an especially small footprint, and, in this case especially, sturdy, well-crafted construction. The corresponding Seagate Mobile Backup app has many detractors, however, claiming that the app shows as inaccessible or effectively invisible to their mobile devices when all installation steps have been followed correctly, and I just don't see the installation of yet another app as necessary, when there are already much more reliable alternate backup methods out there. I tried the app for myself, but, even though it functioned okay the first few times I tried to use it, I just have a preference for Dropbox, as it's never once let me down (Dropbox, I love you). This drive is impressively small (at least to me) yet still it offers plenty of storage space for the everyday user. I'm not sure how this footprint or diminutive sizing changes with the larger capacity drives in this line (and what I wouldn't give for one of the 4 TB models!), but the 1 TB drive is pleasantly petite, & stands just over a half inch high. It's about the same width of my Galaxy Note 3, but not as long, so it's easy enough to slide this drive into a pocket and be on your merry way. Clearly this drive is intended for laptop users, which I typically am not - this is made apparent by the very short USB 3.0 data cable that comes with it. At little over a foot long, it won't do desktop users much good, but as it IS intended as a stable portable device, that's not too much of a surprise for me. Data transfer rates are as quick as you would expect via a USB 3.0 cable, and, as most already know, you won't get optimum speeds when connecting this drive to a USB 2.0 port, but I expect to get many years of reliable use from this pocket-sized large capacity drive. As we all know, improvements in technology come at such a rapid pace that what is new and mindblowingly innovative is tomorrow's "yesterday's news", but considering the more than fair price and smart, sleek design of this drive, I really am very impressed by what you get here - plenty of storage space in a small size, with a more than fair price point. Happy to have this on-hand! :)
5|I am now addicted to these small USB 3 self-powered drives. No more power bricks and cables. I now have 4 of these drives.
4|Executive summary: Very well packed, small, light, attractive, fast. Price is honest. It is a great product, but… Details: My first impression was very positive. I received a very well packed product. Upon opening the box, I was surprised with the size of the HD, even smaller than I initially thought. Inside the package there was the HD, a small USB cable (~1.5 feet long), and a Quick Start Guide. I plugged the drive in my PC Laptop, an HP model running Windows 7. When I opened Windows Explorer, I could find it easily, mapped as Seagate Backup Plus Drive (H:). I went to registration directory and tried to run the application they have there, the Seagate-Release, which opened the Product Registration Window. I filled all registration information and submitted and for my surprise, they complained about Invalid Serial Number… I noticed an .xlm file named “SerialNumber”. I open the file and there it was, the serial number. I copied and pasted the information from the file they supplied thinking that my typing was failing me. Same result. Invalid Serial Number in big bold letters, followed by “Sorry, we were unable to recognize the serial number you entered. Product serial numbers do not contain the letters I,O or U. Please click the back button and correct your serial number”. At this point I thought they were completely crazy, as the serial number I copied and pasted from their own file did not contain any I, O or U. Being very frustrated, as I bought this HD to work with my PC, I gave up and decided to try to register it with my iMAC instead. Immediately after connecting, the icon indicating “Seagate Backup Plus Drive” appeared. By double clicking the icon, a window appeared showing the pre-loaded contents, including the Dashboard Installer.dmg. On the installation process of the Dashboard, we are asked to register and this time the serial number came pre-filled in the serial number field… and it worked fine! Using the dashboard is quite simple and straight forward. Its interface is reasonably user friendly. This drive is really fast. I recommend it to all users who need and external and portable storage device. If you do not have a MAC to register your device, I do not know how it works in terms of warranty. I hope Seagate will honor the warranty no matter what, as their registration through PC Windows based platform apparently is not completely reliable…
5|I have been using this hard drive for a little while, but so far so good. Good looking, great performance and for the price it's really a bargain. I would strongly recommend this for anyone looking for a compact, sleek and above average performance Hard Drive on the market.
5|Slim small and works great with pc and mac with having to download all the extra stuff I use it strictly for music and it great no complaints.....
5|Tech Support could not get my "dashboard" to install. I was able to back up my Windows 7 and other valuable data. dittos100@gmail.com Marty
5|The Seagate Backup Plus name may not stand out, but in its current incarnation, this physically thin and compact hard drive is fast, compact, and light. It comes with Seagate Dashboard software to make backing up data on computers and mobile devices very easy. If you store sensitive data on the drive, I suggest you encrypt the entire drive using TrueCrypt. This is important because the small hard drive can easily be misplaced or lost. It has many parameters that can be set to make cracking user password extremely difficult. Be sure you store your password in a safe place. If you forget the password, it means your data is gone forever, although it is probably better than regretting that someone has 1Tb of your data because you neglected to encrypt the drive.
4|I am terrible about backing up my laptop. I can be pretty free and easy with backups and someday, obviously, that will lead to disaster. I keep a lot of research and writing projects on my laptop and like to have it with me on the fly. Having had the experience of falling on my back into a puddle with the laptop in my backpack, well… that should have taught me something, but didn’t. This is a slim and beautiful backup unit. My Logitech mouse is larger than it, wider and longer. It is something that can be put into a pocket very easily. The first few times I tried to register the drive, it failed, then complained when I tried to close it. I got tired of that game and skipped registration. I selected to use it with a Mac only because that is where I keep all information that is important, generally. It warned me a couple of times that this would erase ALL the data. Then it went to an installer. It was pretty easy. Of course, that is never the end of the story with a Mac. Because then, when I went to use Time Machine, it said the disk had to be erased. “Sure,” I said! But I was suspicious. It worked. It just did.
3|One reason I bought this drive was to have an alternative to Apple's Time Machine SW. Only after buying, unpacking, downloading apps, puzzling with the Dashboard, and going to the web site did I learn that for a Mac one must "leverage Time Machine software." i.e. this drive was sold as "For PC or Mac" but the software only supports PC...sheesh. I can buy any external disk for that. Thanks a lot. I assume that the drive will work fine, but, as a device, it really was not my first choice. The reviews said that the backup SW allowed one to browse their files and most other solutions do not. I am kind of bummed that this is not available to me. PLEASE do not go into the PC verses Apple songs. I use both, designed microprocessors for both, and am not interested in culture wars.
5|I know that Seagate has not had a lotta love lately for their portable drives, but I think as long as you stick with the 2TB or less sized drives, this is pretty reasonable. I don't transport mine very much, but so far, its done the trick for me.
5|I first tried one of these drives (a 500 MB version) last year and have since bought several more. They are very thin, light in weight, have reasonably fast speeds for a USB drive, and offer a great value for the money. Although this drive works fine with both PC’s and Mac’s, if you are a Mac user, you will especially find these the perfect portable backup solution. There are several backup programs that will allow you to create a fully bootable backup using this little wonder (I use Super Duper myself). This creates a fully bootable hard drive that will operate exactly like your computer’s hard drive. If you ever have the misfortune of a failed drive while on the road, you can plug this drive in and boot from it as if it where your main hard drive (it will boot somewhat slower due to the external USB, but otherwise works fine). If your Mac can take advantage of USB 3.0, then you’ll notice decent performance for an external drive. I’ve tested these drive with small document files and large video files alike. I found the performance to be very acceptable. ?The light weight of these drives make them easy to throw in a bag when traveling. Since they do not require any external power supply, there are no cables and power packs to carry with it. Clean and simple. This drive is 1 TB, but you can get these same units in capacity’s up to 2TB if you need to backup or transport large files or backup a large capacity desktop. Although the drive does come with software, I chose not to install and use it because I already have a good system in place for backups and drive maintenance. A nice feature of this line of Seagate USB drives is that they come in various capacities and colors. I use a different color for desktops, laptops and iMac’s. Dollar for dollar, you really can’t find a better deal for the capacity and performance. I gave this product 5 stars based on this unit and a consistent experience with 3 others with varied capacities (500MB, 1TB and 2TB). I have found them to be quite reliable. I would recommend it to anyone that needs a small light backup device or a simple and easy to carry external drive (students, road warriors, etc.). You won’t be disappointed.
3|I bought from amazon a month ago and it works fine. Just noticed the model no. while giving the feedback,The delivered hardsisk looks like same what i saw in amazon website but the model no. is SRD00F1 but in amazon site it showing as STDR20000102. Pros. Compact Size Available Free Space - 1.82 TB Initially I didn't notice the settings and the disk is running all the times. As per seagate (support) instruction i have made the power management and it works for me. Thanks to Seagate.
5|It is so easy, you just plug it in and go. Its so small I'm able to take my complete movie and music collection wherever I go.
5|So far so good. Use it nearly every day as a professional photographer and editor. I'm continually moving files off and on this drive and switching computers. Works like a dream.
5|I'm a long-time Seagate and Western Digital hard drive customer, with some Toshibas and Hitachi drives thrown into the mix from time to time. I've owned about 20 internal and external drives in as many years and have never had a problem with any of them except for 1 external 250GB WD that started developing bad sectors but it was over 10 years old (and aside from the ones I directly destroyed through accidents or neglect, like tripping over the wire). My needs are pretty typical: storing large amounts of media files, like movies, music and photos. I also use them to transport files back and forth between the office. Once the files are on the drive, the data stays pretty much unchanged after that. I'm not editing Photoshop files off them or reading and writing continuously. My parents have one just for trading TV episodes with other family members. 1 TB is a LOT of space. A typical MP3 file is around 3-5 MB, so you'll be able to store over 200,000 songs on here, but no one in the real world has that much music unless you're in music business. Most modern point and shoot cameras and cellphones store photos at around that size as well. If you are not storing any single file over 4GB, I recommend reformatting the drive to FAT-32 because this format makes it universally compatible with many devices, including game systems like PS3 and various media players like WDTV, ASUS O!Play. Forgo the included drive software as these are usually more of an annoyance than a help. They require you to install the software on all machines needing to connect to it. You can avoid all this by reformatting to FAT-32. This is a very competitively priced drive. I bought a 500GB internal hard drive for my PS3 earlier in the year for $50. You may also want to buy a storage case for it before throwing it in your backpack. I've killed a few drives this way. Caselogic makes some good inexpensive ones. For geeky friends, this makes a great gift. The metal skin is very attractive and gives the drive a very stylish look. It also offers better heat dissipation than plastic housings.
4|I have over 300 GBs of music and over 500 GBs of videos and photos. Also misc document of about 1 GB. My 1 TB hard drives could not fit everything. This did. Nice and compact.
5|very good product would buy again! Love them and wouldn't trade them for a different kind! thank you very much
4|This is an "portable" hard drive meaning all it needs is a USB plug into your computer to transfer the data and get power from. That means you don't have to plug in an AC adapter to your wall socket. I prefer these hard drives over the kind that require an AC adapter every time. This will also work with USB 2.0 adapters the speeds for 2.0 transfers are still fast enough for most users at about a gigabyte of data every 30 to 40 seconds. At the time of writing this review to terabyte drives or the highest capacity could find for a portable hard drive. If you want to get a 3 or 4TB hard drive those are the kind that require a wall AC adapter. I gave this drive four stars because of the time of writing this review it was about $15 more than other 2 TB portable hard drives on Amazon. This hard drive is Mac compatible just follow the steps below to format the hard drive for your Mac. If you're a Mac user setting up or erasing this drive up with your computer is super easy follow these steps. 1. Plug in the the drive 2. Open up disk utility found in your applications folder inside the utilities folder 3. Next select the newly plugged in a drive and on the right-hand side you should see partition click on that. 4. Then inside that screen on the partition layout drop-down choose how many partitions you'd like to set up. I generally go with one partition and just use folders to organize my files. 5. Then on the right-hand side you can name the partitions and select the format. If you are transferring video files I highly recommend you choose Mac OS Extended (If you want to use it with Time Machine this is the choice you need to make) as it can handle files over 4GB. Sometimes it's good to make two partitions and one using "MS-DOS fat" or "ExFat" if you might be transferring files to and from a Windows machine. The reason is Windows machines and Macs can read and write to the "MS-DOS fat" format but your files will need to be under 4 GB each as that's the maximum file size it can handle.*** 6. Then click apply and your Mac will create all the partitions you wanted and you're good to go. *** The ExFat format is new to Mac OSX 10.9 Mavericks and doesn't have a 4gb file size limit the "MS-DOS fat" or Fat32 does but not all devices like cameras & digital devices can't read or write to it. I hope this helps and be sure to always have backups of your important data. Take it from somebody was lost a lot of data to hard drive failures always backup and Time Machine is so transparent if you're using a Mac you should be using Time Machine.
5|This harddrive is small but yet have a great capacity for loading data on. Brilliant speed backs up very fast and realiable.
5|Its really sleek and small versus my older, bulky Lacie Terabyte. Loads fast, transfers fast. Great backup for my video files
5|This is an Awesome Product!! I'm very satisfied with my purchase, this is perfect, it's compact but yet in still it's SOOOO Large. you download movies for days. I've checked other prices around and they can't come close to this price, I mean like 50-60 dollars difference. This is a must have!!!
4|Easily integrated itself into the Mac (mini) environment. No re-format required. Has become the back up for the system. No probs.
4|I had some troubles with it firsthand, but the problem is resolved. It works really nice; looks sleek and is compact and easy to carry around. I have to say, it does make noise, but rarely and it's not too noticeable.
3|The item appears to be new unsealed box however there is a big part of box torn off at the corner. Looks like it had been damage with a blunt force or caught on something that tore a big piece off. This was not due to postal service since item was well wrapped with bubble wrap and postal packaging remain intact. I don't know if the external drive is damage or not. If it works than that's fine but if it doesn't I will return the item. Paying over $100 for a new electronic item one would expect an undamaged box.
5|easy to transport and easy to use. Plug it in and back-up your computer and everyone else's in the office. Loved mine so much, bought one for the office.
5|I am a IT support consultant so I get to use more than a few external USB drives. Newer, older, fatter and more slim. The Seagate Backup Plus 1TB drive provides similar capabilities and form factor to the WD My Passport Slim 1TB drive. Both are fast thanks to USB 3.0 and both are light and small. I don't notice a lot of difference in the drives when just used as external drives. The Seagate Backup Plus comes with the Seagate Dashboard application and 1 year use of 5GB in the cloud powered by Nero (remember them? The folks who sell their CD/DVD burning software from Europe?). Dashboard provides some new things and some that will be familiar to owners of older Seagate external drives. The familiar is the choice of scheduled and continuous backup of data files. The backup application can push these to the drive or the cloud. This is oriented toward data backup rather than maintaining a backup suitable for bare-metal recovery. If you goal is to backup documents, email, pictures, music, and/or videos this may be your ticket. The continuous backup attempts to keep the drive synchronized with files as they get changed on your hard drive. it requires the drive be connected to be continuous. It will try to catch up if it's been disconnected. It seems to work better than the older (several years ago) versions I've tried before. The backup plan (scheduled backup) can be better if you don't want the overhead of the continuous backup while you are using your computer. You set this up and schedule it. If your computer if off when the backup is scheduled it will either be skipped or run when you computer is started again. Probably best for desktops. The cloud storage required a separate sign-up after registering the drive. You get 5GB for one year, then you have to pay., The new (for me) in the Seagate Dashboard is the use of cloud storage, mobile backup, and social media backup. The cloud storage required a separate sign-up after registering the drive. You get 5GB for one year, then you have to pay., It can be accessed via web, Seagate Dashboard, and mobile apps. The Mobile backup is interesting - a way to save images or whatever that you might have on your phone. It can save the data to the Seagate Backup Plus drive or the cloud. I have an iphone so it has built-in non-expiring cloud access with iCloud. While I have not made much use of this feature it has clear appeal and my small amount of use indicates it works pretty well. The social media backup has clear use for flicker, Facebook and YouTube. I am sure that folks who use social media heavily (sometimes I think I'm the only one who doesn't) will find the ability to backup their content useful and can add to peace of mind. Overall I found the Seagate Backup Plus 1TB drive a physically attractive drive with much in common with the WD My Passport Slim 1TB. It's much faster than USB 2 drives but on a par with comparable USB 3.0 drives. The Seagate Dashboard software and the cloud integration are key differentiators and are a step ahead of Western Digital software. It appears to work well. One down side is only a 2 year warranty instead of the more common 3 year warranty for this class of drive. Hope this helps someone.
5|Shipped faster than expected. Excellent. Faster with 3.0. Fits perfectly in my hand. I wish i had 2 tb instead of 1tb at this price.
5|What I love most about this drive is that it has plenty of storage space but the size is smaller, slimmer and lighter than the previous version I had. Set up is simple: plug the back up drive into your computer for the first time and the download/installation process begins; restart the computer for it to take effect. My primary use for the drive is to back up my photography and transport it between home, studio, and printer for editing. It fits easily into my laptop bag and doesn't add discernible weight. I do not use the social media features. All my computers use Windows OS, so I have no experience using this with a MAC. The drive has a 2-year warranty, but if past experience with Seagate is any indicator, it will easily outlast the warranty. Recommended.
5|bought this to store older photos and photo libraries for my MacBook Pro, and it does exactly what you would expect it to do with no issues. I love the small form factor as well.
5|If you care about portability, design and quality, this portable HD exceeds their expectations. In my opinion is one of the most stylish models from Seagate. Just have not found a exclusive sleeve case for it, which would be interesting. Except this, I recommend it.
5|This hard drive is fairly unremarkable in design. It's thinner than the normal portable drive and I do like the metallic construction. Portable and convenient to carry in a laptop bag. The included software allows you to read/write NTFS drives on your Mac, but it's annoying that it only works on Seagate drives. The Dashboard actually works on this drive with Mavericks. I was able to backup my social media profiles and my portable devices very easily. I wouldn't pay much extra for these features,but if pricing is close the added benefits of size and software makes this a great choice.
5|This item is as presented by Amazon. This drive is very small and compact. It is simple to use, nothing to install, download or mess with. The silver colored one is very attractive. It has plenty of storage capacity. An outstanding value so far. Have to see how long in last. Recommend!!
5|So Far so good, for back up for your computer. Great price, product received on time and have backed up a portion of my computer.
3|I use both a Mac and a Windows computer - Mac at home and Windows at work. I bought this primarily as a backup to my Mac as the Air has very limited capacity. It works well as an external hard disk but that's all you'll get. It doesn't work with Mac's Time Capsule and cannot be made into a backup disc in that sense. You can back things up by manually transferring new files over. Secondly, it didn't work with the Windows immediately and required re-formatting. Sadly, I only found this out after I had transferred everything onto the hard disk, so at the moment, I am leaving it as it is and it works solely with the Mac.
4|Been using Sseagate for years haven't had any problems them so far, they work just fine. I would recomend them.
5|It does what it needs to! Really could not ask for much else from it. It is small too; it does not take up much space. Overall, I am very satisfied.
4|Satisfied
4|Multiple copies of data is needed to be stored in case one loses all of his data including files, folders, pictures, videos etc on computer due to unforeseen circumstances. Seagate hard drive is a very handy and helpful device to back up all the data from your computer, tablet and mobile devices.This device is sleek and slim and can be taken everywhere. It easily goes into pocket, purse or backpackIt works for all types of operating systems like Mac OS, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP. It is compatable with Usb 3.0 and Usb 2.0 ports. It has a 2-year limited warranty. Pros: 1)Since it is very light, just 22 mm thick, it can be carried easily on the go. 2) Data can be backed up without hassles. 1)The hard drive comes with an 18-inch USB 3.0 cable which is a little small to connect it to a desktop computer. 2) Sometimes its performance feels slower than a 7200-RPM hard drive.
3|I have many external hard drives and in the past have always used the WD My Passport Ultra which I love. I was very excited to compare it to the Seagate option especially where it is the newest slim design. Much about the Seagate hard drive impressed me. I use Windows 7 on my computer and it came already NTFS formatted for easy immediate use. It's very fast and the slim design does make it somewhat more portable than the WD My Passport. But I must admit I did not find the thin design a huge selling feature. Some people don't like the preloaded backup software but I found the Seagate Dashboard Software very user friendly and helpful. The real bonus to this hard drive though is its simple use for the computer, mobile devices and social network sites. I always choose to set up what I personally want backed up and the Seagate made it very easy. For me personally, everything I love about this Seagate Backup Plus Slim I also love about my WD My Passport Ultras. And there are two negatives I find with the Seagate - one minor and one major. The minor is that it only has a 2 year warranty while the WD has 3. The major is that the hard drive has no security option whatsoever to protect my content against unauthorized access if I were to loose the hard drive. This is a major issue for me. The main use of these portable hard drives especially as the designs get slimmer as this one is is that they are even easier to carry around . But without any security option I choose to only put certain data on the Seagate. Its use is limited greatly for me due to the lack of a security option. It's too bad for otherwise I would recommend the hard drive highly. But for me I will continue to stick with WD and get their slim design hard drive which has security.
5|very light, potable and easy to use. it is exactly as i expected, even better. i recommend it for anyone.
5|I bought two of the 2TB capacity drives. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB contains the Samsung-branded M9T drive, which is a 9.5mm 2TB HDD. Inside the enclosure is an M9T 2TB drive and a SATA-microUSB3 adapter. The M9T's PCB has a SATA connector. I also bought an OWC Data Doubler kit (the one with the screw set). So I pried the two M9Ts out of the external enclosures and put them inside my mid-2009 MacBook Pro, replacing my aging 1.5TB 12.5mm Toshiba Aquarius I bought in December 2012 and the optical drive that came with my MBP. All for a total of 4TB of onboard storage! That's eight times the 500GB capacity that came with the MBP's original drive. I had previously upgraded its RAM to its maximum of 8GB. I can easily see my more-than-4-year old Mac lasting another two years before I need to replace it.
4|I don't expect much from the software but I don't even remember what was the last time I have to reboot my Mac because of a new software installation. The software is more like a picture backup only, I have removed that within few minutes. I bought this to replace the Seagate GoFlex 1.5TB FW/USB ext. hdd, I am very glad that I can still tradein to Amazon for ~$90(cost me ~$200 in 2012) and this one only cost a little more, and I have been using that to backup my NAS every day since 2 years ago, so I think it is worth it. Since this is a usb3.0 hdd, the tradein price is only 50% of the brand new price, I hope this can last 2years then I don't really care the 2nd hand value. I can't really give much review about a hard drive, it is all about luck and we always need to do 1 backup at least.
2|I bought SEAGATE because i thought it is metal case, but it is NOT! This made from the cheap frangible plastic and packed with over-short usb-cable. Seagate CHEATS saying it is "metal design" - read carefully!!!! Device a very poor quality. It is not recognizable if you plug it in USB 2.0. Company says it should, but it is NOT. Amazing support team. They really help. First time they offered the replacement for my delivery cost. Then I denied, they sent the free UPS package. Thanks for that! Only one question, if i really want to keep this cheap-case and poor-quality equipment? Unfortunately, i do not wish and will buy WD Slim version instead.
1|I was satisfied with this slim drive until it failed within the first 3 months of using it. And my patience has been tested since then. I've been trying to get another one under my warranty but it's been almost 2 weeks since the first time I tried to get hold of the seagate customer service and I still have not received a new one!! The wait on the phone is ridiculously long. The first time I called them, I was on hold for over an hour to talk to someone briefly. More than a week ago, the manager talked to me saying that a new one would finally be shipped to me. When I called them again after waiting for more than a week, I was told that it hasn't been shipped. And every time I talk to a customer rep, they blame on system update. I'm thinking about just not getting warranty and switching to another brand. I feel like even if I get a new seagate drive, it will fail again and I don't want to waste my time doing this again.
5|What can i say, 2 TB in such a small package.... Plus: - it's fast (higher capacity tends to do that for mechanical drives), - the build quality is good, the bottom and sides are plastic (matte on the bottom, glossy on its sides), the top is metal (or something that looks and feels like it), and it doesn't cracks when you hold it more tightly. - it is small but you can still use the drive that's encased for other purposes (replace it, use it in a laptop, etc). Although this voids the warranty, you can't do this with WD Passport drives (the mini usb connector is soldered to the drive, it doesn't have standard sata connectors) -the cable is short, this can be a plus or a minus, depending on preferences... -the white LED is pretty and pulsates slowly when there's activity. -it's silent. Cons: -it doesn't have any rubber feet (or any feet) on its bottom side.
3|I have several of these drives connected to many computers. The down side is you can not delete what is stored (backup data) on them without reformatting the drive. So, now I just replace these drives when they are about 90% full. Now I have a shelf filling up with these drives with my data safely stores on them. I just write the dates covered on my backup data on the side of each Seagate drive and store it on the shelf at 90% full. Not sure if any similar USB backup drives can be refreshed to be used as new again.
4|Very easy to use with my MacBook Pro. I use it as a backup disc for my Time Machine app. So far so good.
2|I bought SEAGATE because i thought it is metal case, but it is NOT! This made from the cheap frangible plastic and packed with over-short usb-cable. Seagate CHEATS saying it is "metal design" - read carefully!!!! Device a very poor quality. It is not recognizable if you plug it in USB 2.0. Company says it should, but it is NOT. Amazing support team. They really help. First time they offered the replacement for my delivery cost. Then I denied, they sent the free UPS package. Thanks for that! Only one question, if i really want to keep this cheap-case and poor-quality equipment? Unfortunately, i do not wish and will buy WD Slim version instead.
5|the drive was delivered on time. no connection issues with any of my devices. nicely built, neat little drive. On another note I got the AmazonBasics Hard Carrying Case for My Passport Essential - Black . and this drive fit perfectly well with this case. match made in heaven.
5|My laptop runs much smoother now that it has extra space in the hard drive and no media files from iTunes! Plus, I'm using it from my web design projects
4|The packaging for this Seagate Backup Plus Drive doesn't emphasize its Mac compatibility, but this drive IS bot Mac and Windows compatible. The drive comes with Seagate software pre-installed, ready to run in either operating system. Slim, simple, efficient; works reliably. This is how backups should be!
3|I like the format of this little drive. It easily fits in a pocket, is slimmer than most of the other small drives I own. There is a functional but unobtrusive light on the drive that tells you when it is engaged. Data Transfer over the USB 3 port is fast, and the 1TB size will store a lot of data. Unfortunately the functionality is not 100% reliable. The drive is apt to spontaneously disconnect. When that happens I get a scolding message from my Mac warning against ejecting drives improperly. It reconnects immediately, but whatever data transfer was in progress is cancelled. I've looked online for solutions, but so far no luck. Seagate advised that I install their Dashboard Software, available as a free download. I did install it, but it had no effect and the disconnects continue. Too bad. Reliability would have earned it a couple more stars. Update: after using the drive for less than six months, I plugged it in this morning and was informed by my Mac that the drive is unreadable. I can hear the drive spinning, and a rapid clicking sound, which I think is the head repositioning, but nothing else is happening - although I no longer receive the drive unreadable message - now it is simply invisible to any computer I connect it to. Luckily I have the data backed up on another drive, so all I'm out is the hardware. Still, its dissappointing. I do not know if the problem lies with the Hard Drive itself, or whether the problem is with the enclosure. I've tried attaching it to another Mac, and to a PC with Windows 8, but neither one can see the drive at all.
5|I had a 1TB Seagate Backup Plus for Mac that worked for about a year. Never had a problem with it until one day my computer wouldn't recognize it. I tried doing firmware updates, but with no luck. So, I ordered the 1TB Backup Plus Slim, which is about the size of an iPhone. I have my own website and literally thousands of CD and other reviews, so having a backup copy of my files is really important. Since I am a Mac user, I am using this drive with Time Machine. It was easy to install and has been seamless ever since. The small size of this drive makes it very easy to take with you. It will also back up mobile devices and social networking sites and is usable between Windows and Mac. I have a non-smart phone and don't really care much about Facebook, so I haven't tried those functions. I just wanted a good, solid reliable back-up drive and this one certainly seems to be doing its job well! I haven't tried using it with a Windows platform, but that shouldn't be something I'll ever need. I did try it with my mother's older MacBook laptop, which runs on an older OS, and it reads the files fine. This is a device that you can basically plug into your computer and forget about it until you really need it. Hopefully that won't ever happen, but it's nice to know my files are backed up just in case!
5|ll fast all good very good the best of the best excelent product is very fast is 3.0 no problem
5|This Seagate backup is small enough to travel and resting on your desk without taking up too much space. Love it.
5|This is a great drive for travel. Fits into computer bag and has plenty of room for photos and video.
5|Its a great HD. There is some metal clicking sound you get once in a while. The HD inside is a 9.5mm Samsung 2TB. Its easy to open and no soldered USB. Reportedly works for PS4 HDD upgrade
5|I'm old school - I sometimes think back to the old days of floppy discs, then onto Zip Discs, and then onto flash drives. However, in this day and age, when Dropbox, Google Drive and the like dominate file transfer, one might wonder why you'd need physical file transfer. Unless you have something like Google Fiber, you're going to occasionally need to move large amounts of files back and forth. And while it is not really meant for that, it almost feels that way to me. It's small, it has no power supply, and just "feels" like an oversized floppy disc or something. It's likely target is a laptop user who needs extra space. Yeah, I just spent a bunch of time equating a 1TB hard drive to a floppy disc. But the size of this thing gives it that feel to me. :) But other than the floppy disc talk, I really like this for the portability, on the odd time I need to take a LOT of files from one place to another (usually from one work location to another). I am REALLY in love with the no power supply factor here - that is my single most favorite part of this. It does its job, it's relatively cheap, and it's small, quiet, and stores a ton of stuff. What more could you ask for?
5|I have been using Seagate back-up drives for all my computers (5 of them) for years and I have yet to have one fail. This one comes with a Seagate dashboard that makes scheduling and performing data back-ups easy for me. Great price for the size of storage.
5|this Seagate comes installed with some great software, it can also be used with windows, it is slim only needs one cable and is cheap as all get out.
5|I got this for the size and the speed for just moving files around between computers. I didn't have any issues getting the drive up and running. It's not that heavy and it's got a decent size to it but overall, not bad. I didn't really want to have much to do with yet another proprietary backup system that seems to come with every portable hard drive. So long story short, I can't really tell you if the included software works or doesn't. I've been happy just either moving files manually as needed or letting Windows manage my backups to that drive. I've been happy with the speed to get a backup done.
5|When it comes to buying a backup drive, the only real questions that I have are whether or not it works. This one does - it's compact, lightweight and super fast. If you need access on the go, you can carry it with you pretty much anywhere - it tucks easily into a purse or backpack. Wherever you are, you can backup your drive or access additional files. Using it on a PC, I found setup a breeze. You can just plug it in and go. Of course, there's also the Seagate Dashboard, which seems about as simple to use as it gets. It walks you through its install process and once installed offers quick and simple options to back up and protect your files or to upload/download files to social media.
5|Got this for work. Works very well. I only got a 1TB, not 2TB. Very slim case, fits in the pocket so it is off property at night.
2|Nice for large file transfers but I bought this to use as a portable drive for my sound editing and mixing and it will not playback the large mix sessions that can easily play back on my studio RAID10 external box. Both of these units have similar transfer speeds on large files but it would seem this portable device has trouble with accessing small and random files quickly. Good for fast backups but that's about it. Might have to bight the bullet and look for an external SSD solution.
5|This is a slim little drive that stores a whopping 1TB of data. I use this drive to back up my desktop computer. I feel the most comfortable doing backups the "low tech" way . . . I just drag and drop my main folder from Windows machine onto the drive. It takes overnight to copy all the files on the drive. So, once a week before going to bed, I drag the main folder of my desktop machine onto this seagate drive. Then in the morning, I unplug the drive, and store in a safe. This is a pretty simple backup scheme, but offers pretty good protection. This little drive is ideal for this type of backup scheme. I did not load or install any of the software that came with the drive.
5|It works. Its fast and flawless and with USB 3.0 you get speeds close to thunderbolt but with backwards compatibility. I cannot remember what it was like to use these drives with slower speeds. It uses NTFS and works with mac or pc. The actual backup software works really well. The extra social media part was a little clunky and I'm not sure anyone but a dedicated social marketer type media person would bother with it. Obviously your first back up will take much longer than subsequent ones. Still from setup to the finish of my first backup it only took like 45 minutes. My hard is SSD but still its just all around fast. Also its so very small. The size is somewhere between a wallet and iPhone 5 and its metal so it looks as far as these things can. Get IT.
4|This hard drive took longer to set up than it did to back up my devices! It didn't take that long to set up, either. Once I set it up, I ran a backup. I had to check, because it happened so fast I couldn't tell if it did anything, and I didn't blink. We're talking nanoseconds here to back up my entire computer. I do not like the GUI, though. Rather than opting for an intuitive GUI, Seagate chose to keep it really simple. When you open the dashboard, you have the choice of giong to your device or the cloud. From there, you drill. In my opinion, this device would be more worthy of consideration if the backup folders were displayed in the GUI when you open it. Still, it's very portable, lightweight, and so fast it will make your head spin. If you have a need for speed, this is your drive.
5|I bought two from amazon, open the external case and took out the internal SATA III 2.5inch HDD installed in the Minipro RAID 1 (bought from amazon.com too), it works perfectly I even use Windows 7 Bitlocker to encrypt the RAID 1, it took me 2~3 hours, perform flawless. after encryption, the RAID 1 write speed is about 50~60MB/s without encryption, the RAID 1 write speed 75~115MB/s
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is a type of slim pocketable high capacity external HD that has become ubiquitous around the world. Just a few years ago a drive of this type would have been cutting edge, and cost hundreds of dollars. Now this type of drive has become as common as SD cards and smartphones, and the price has plunged to under a hundred dollars for most brands. Although this type of drive is available from many vendors, both name brand and no-name, Seagate has become synonymous with this type of product for many people. For me, Seagate = slim external hard drive. I own several examples of the Seagate GoFlex and BackUp Plus hard drives, and rely on them every day. I have never had a problem with any of the many slim Seagate external units that I own. This example continues that experience. These types of drives have become a commodity product in many ways. But as with all things it pays to find a brand you like and stick with it. Although many people, sadly, do not back up at all, and some people may backup to a single unit, I have always been a belt and suspenders kind of computer user, and so I keep multiple drives that I rotate through for routine backups. That way, even if a drive should ever fail, there will another just one backup cycle older still available. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive comes with software for backing up, and features a number of options of sharing photos and using cloud storage. I personally prefer other products like SynchBack, and I avoid all forms of cloud and wireless router based storage. So I can't comment on the software. But the drive is solid, and I have never had a bad experience with one of these little slim Seagate external USB 3.0 hard drives. RECOMMENDED.
5|The best portable hd with super speed transfers. This is the unique portable drive with 4tb of storage. Simply amazing.
5|I have several external hard drives since I run a business from my computer (when at home or traveling). I love the size of this external hard drive making it easy for me to bring with me all business my files from my main PC even when I am traveling with a mini laptop that does not hold more than 20GB of hard drive space. This is the smallest and lightest external hard drive I have tried with superior performance
5|Seagate probably hired some top designers to design their drives. It is about 1/8" thicker, slightly larger than the iPhone 5 and adds virtually no bulk to your briefcase, if you have a Macbook Pro with small capacity SSD (line mine) this drive is a must have. Btw, I have an older MBP that has no USB 3.0 port, but this drive is very fast, probably faster than all the external drives I currently have. Seagate said you could use this drive with both MacOS and Windows. If you want to use it only with MacOS, a quick reformat would do. Seagate provided free of charge a NTFS driver for Mac that you could download. With this driver, your drive could be used in both environments. I used my other Seagate drives in this manner for video and music, as some most media players do not recognize MacOS file system. I am a long time Seagate hard drive product users. I have Seagate drives that are 4,5 years old and still performed fine. I don't expect any differences with this drive.
5|This drive was easy to set up and is pretty care free. If you don't have a back up drive for your PC you need to get one, this has been a great one.
5|There is no noise that you can hear. It is fast enough for huge files. Very slim and light product. This product has Samsung Spinpoint M9T is world's thinnest 2TB notebook hard drive inside. You can take it out and use any compatible device. I really recommend this product. Cons: USB cable little bit short. There is no a case for carrying but not must-have.
4|The hard drive is slim and light. The build quality is superb. It feels nice in hand and looks slick as well. The transfer speed is usually above 80MB/s, and it runs quiet and cool. Over all it is a great device to have. It makes you wonder how much technology has advanced. I liked it so much that I end up buying another one, only refrained to get a third since I don't have that much data to fill it, lol. My only concern is that when the drive is in idle, it parks its head and makes a clicking noise. The SMART data shows that the loading/unloading count grows rapidly. On of mine has been powered on for 11 hours, and the loading/unloading count is already about 1700. Shall I be concerned? Is it merely an annoyance or rather a defect? Somehow I do not see other people mention this in the reviews.
4|Seagate’s Backup Plus external hard drive is small, nicely made, and works well on my Mac. The drive itself isn’t that much bigger than an iPhone 5s and is very easy to stash in a bag, desk drawer, or pocket. It’s also very light in weight. Despite its small size and lightweight, it’s very nicely made. The top is metal, while the rest of the drive is plastic. There’s a small LED light to indicate drive power and activity on the top. You can disable the light using Seagate’s included software. Speaking of, the included software it is very simple to use. I installed it on a MacBook Air running Mac OS X 10.9.2. There is also an app available for iOS and Android devices to back them up over your Wi-Fi network when the drive is connected to a computer on that network. That software is also very simple to use. While it is easy to use, it is not without its problems, however. It took me a couple of tries to finally get it to back up my iPhone 5s. Once I got it working it backed up my iPhone’s photos quickly and smoothly. It took about 10 minutes to back up 990 MB of data this way. Transferring data via USB from the drive to a computer and vice versa is very fast. I transferred 1.7 GB of data both ways and it only took a minute to do so each way. I was using the drive over a USB 2.0 connection, so those with USB 3.0 should experience faster speeds still. In operation the drive gives of a very slight humming sound and gets slightly warm to the touch. I’ve been using a Seagate drive for a couple of years to do my back-ups and I’ve not had any issues, so reliability should not be an issue. All in all… a nicely designed and fast external hard drive.
5|I never thought this product would be this much slim. Thanks to Seagate for this design. Really amazed. This is really a 5-star product.
5|Usb 3.0 great form factor and excellent read and write mb speed, the only thing to be seen is how long this drive will last
5|Yep. It works.
5|I purchased mine on sale at seagate dot com for $54.95 plus free shipping. Even though the description of this hard drive says USB 3.0, it is backwards compatable with USB 2.0. The included back-up software called "Dashbord" wouldn't install on my Windows XP laptop so I called Seagate Technical Support at 1-800-732-4283 and spoke to the Seagate Technical Support agent who told me to install an alternate back-up software program called "Seagate Manager". It works perfectly to back up all your important files, photos, and documents. You can set it up to do scheduled back-ups automatically if you leave the hard drive continuously plugged in or back-up when you plug the drive in once each day, as I do. I first delete the previous day's back up, then run the full back-up and unplug the drive. BE SURE TO LEFT CLICK ON THE "SAFELY REMOVE HARDWARE" ICON THAT IS LOCATED IN YOUR SYSTEM TRAY NOTIFICATION AREA (LOCATED IN THE BOTTOM RIGHT CORNER OF YOUR DESKTOP), AND WAIT A FEW SECONDS FOR THE "SAFE TO REMOVE HARDWARE" POP-UP WINDOW TO APPEAR BEFORE YOU UNPLUG YOUR HARD DRIVE!!! The Seagate Technical support agent also told me about a second VERY useful complete image back-up software program called "DiscWizard". This program creates a complete image of all your installed PROGRAMS, documents, photos, files, and settings, unlike the Disk Manager software which only backs up your documents, photos, and files, NOT all of your installed programs or settings. The DiscWizard software first prompts you to create a bootable CD that you can use to boot up your computer if it totally crashes. Like before, my laptop had trouble creating the recovery CD, so Seagate Technical Support mailed me a bootable CD free of charge to use in case of a disaster. In a disaster situation, you must first plug in your Seagate drive and then place the recovery CD in your CD drive and then reboot your computer and constantly press F12 to choose "boot from your CD drive". Note: some computers may require a different procedure in order to boot from the CD. Consult your computer manfacturer. Once you have restarted your computer from the bootable CD a DiscWizard screen will appear where you will use your UP arrow to choose Seagate Disc Wizard, press "Enter", wait a few moments for the progranm to load, and then click on the "recover" tab. After completion, your computer will be back to normal like it was before your disaster happened with all your programs, files, documents, photos, and settings restored. You ONLY need to run DiscWizard when you install new programs or make other changes to your computer. There is no need to run it every day unless you have made changes to your computer. If your DiscWizard image was created more than a few days or weeks ago, then you should do a restore opeation from your daily Seagate Manager back-up. Now your computer will be completely up-to-date and back to normal as if nothing ever happened. I would highly recommend this external hard drive to anyone looking for the BEST quality hard drive on the market with a TWO year warranty. For the ultimate protection of your computer, I recommend that you install BOTH of the Seagate programs mentioned above. P.S. Since the Seagate external hard drive does not come with a protective storage case, you can buy a very nice genuine all leather case that will fit your hard drive by going to seagate dot com. When you are on the main Seagate webpage, click on "Seagate Store" in the upper right corner and then click on "Sales and Clearance" and search the webpage for "FreeAgent(tm) Go Leather Case 100612595" where it is on sale for just $4.99 with FREE shipping. I ordered one, and my hard drive and connecting cable fit the case perfectly! It provides the ultimate protection for your hard drive and it's very nice looking!
5|Better than expected!! Fast and very small. Very fast than my old Lacie model this one has a USB 3!
5|It is slim, well built, compact, fast. There is a reason it is one of the top rated hard drives.
2|During setup, I was given an option to choose Mac or Windows version. Call me stupid, but I thought this would automatically format the drive appropriately. In this case for a Mac. Wrong. It didn't, and thus, caused me frustration when I couldn't figure out why I couldn't drag and drop files into the drive. Ultimately, I had to go into Disk Utility and erase the drive there instead. That did the trick, but the set up was misleading. I rate it poorly for the frustration and lost time it cost me troubleshooting what should have a been an effortless install.
5|I can't state emphatically enough how much I love this HDD. A terabyte of storage, in a unit the size of a thin wallet, for less than $70! Not only that, but there is no power cable and voltage transformer to deal with. The unit is powered via a USB cable, which makes it exceptionally portable and convenient. I was so impressed by the first unit that I bought, that I bought a second unit for the sole purpose of storing all of my music. I could see many other uses besides backing up one's computer (or storing music), such as archiving family photographs. The best part is that it fits in a shirt pocket and connects in the simplest way possible. It's devices like this little Seagate and it's convenience factor, that make me really appreciate advancing technology.
5|Seagate has always been my go to reliable hard drive. This new external hard drive is super slim (it's seriously just the hard drive wrapped in a metal enclosure).
5|the hard drive is as small as they promised, it has a great design and the most important characteristic is that is fast enought for your needs, its also includes a useful software that provides you some great functions that i always appreciate in this kind of products.
5|I am using this little external drive with my ultralight laptop, which only has a small 64GB SSD for storage. This 1TB drive more than exceeds my present needs with plenty of room for the future. Since I am using this HDD for storage and file transferring (with my desktop) rather than as a backup drive, I did not install the Seagate backup software that comes in a folder on the drive. What I really like about this external HDD is that it's so lightweight and small, it's easy to carry and use anywhere. It's powered by USB, so I just need to connect it to my laptop (or desktop)--no power adapter needed. Being USB 3.0, this drive is fast but it still works fine on a legacy USB 2.0 connection, too. I purchased this inexpensive AmazonBasics Hard Carrying Case for My Passport Essential - Black for it, and it fits perfectly with the USB cable. I really can't find anything negative to say about this little portable hard drive from Seagate. It checks all the right boxes and I have already recommended it to several friends.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 (Red) STDR1000103 This is a great product and I will order more in the future.
4|Good design and best value product! No buttons and simple operations. I would choose this as a best gift for any techie.
2|EDIT 10-4-15: Add me to the list of people whose Seagate 4TB Fast drives have failed prematurely. I was quite happy at first, both with the speed and with the fact that Windows 8.1 actually recognized the drives right off the bat, which it didn't with some WD drives. But, if I had done more homework I would have discovered that these Fast drives attain their increased speed by using two 2.5" drives in a Raid 0 configuration, which is great if it works...and hellish if it doesn't. My drive began to act a bit odd, so I copied all its data to other drives (luckily, it worked). Now my drive isn't showing a bunch of its data and is failing the Seagate SeaTools tests, so I'm wiping/erasing/writing numbers to the drive multiple times in an attempt to make the data at least a bit more secure before returning it to Seagate for a replacement. Given that I'm not editing video from it, I'm going to buy some of the less-speedy non-Fast versions, which I believe contain a single 4TB drive and are thus more reliable. One of the deciding factors in buying these drives was that I have had some bad luck lately with little external USB3 drives from Western Digital. One began to exhibit a "device descriptor not found" error, so it needs to go back to the company for warranty replacement. Sounds easy enough, but the thing is full of data that I really would rather not send off to Timbuktu. Tech support was not able to help me (though GetDataBack did; it took many days, but was able to pull most of the data off the defective drive). Here's hoping that the Seagate's behave better. (See EDIT above. Oops.)
4|It's really nice to have such a large drive in such a small, portable package. Windows 7 and 8.1 didn't want to see the drive right away, but did after some fiddling. Perhaps I didn't follow instructions (which I didn't read first, I admit, given that I owned a computer business for years). I recommend that purchasers DO read the manual and install whatever Seagate says to, which will likely save you some of the time I wasted attempting to get this beast seen by Windows. All's well that ends well and I am happy with this purchase.
5|Hard to go wrong here. If you are using this as an external drive, this product has 2TB in very small space and is USB powered. The drive itself only takes 0.7-2.3W to operate! On Mac OSX 10.9.2 running the included Paragon NTFS driver, I was able to see write rates in 8-10 MB/sec with USB 2.0. On a Windows 7 Machine I averaged 18 MB/Sec; 14 MB/sec running the latest 8.1 update. I pulled the drives from two of these units (instructions below - photos to be added soon) for use in my laptop. This product is the only way I know of to obtain the 9.5mm tall, 2.5-in 2T Samsung Spinpoint M9T drive(s). Note: the 2TB version has 1 drive, the 4TB has 2 drives. After installing them in my laptop (has 3 internal HDD bays with SATA connections, 1st bay has OS, apps, etc. on 500GB SSD), I tested data txfr speeds. I moved 1.5 TB of data from one drive to another with average speeds of 194 MB/Sec in Windows 8.1. Laptop now has 4.5 TB of hard drive capacity. Have also successfully installed one in a PS4! Next project will be to install one in a Macbook Pro. Great way to get a lot of internal storage space for little money (Purchased early April 2014 for $103.99 directly from Amazon with 2-day Prime shipping). Removal Instructions (WARNING -THIS WILL VOID YOUR WARRANTY - BUYER BEWARE): 1. Obtain small, flat-bladed screw driver and gently insert between the aluminum top and the plastic bottom. 2. Rotate screwdriver slightly to pry the top off. At this point slide the screwdriver around the perimeter and the top will come off. 3. Once the top is off, you will see the top of the internal drive. Carefully remove from the plastic lower without prying or subjecting the drive to significant shock. It is easiest to remove by lifting the side opposite the USB connector. 4. Once the drive is out of the plastic enclosure, you'll need to remove some aluminum tape and wax paper from the drive. Be careful when doing this to avoid ESD which may damage drive circuitry. 5. Once the tape and paper are removed, the USB to SATA board can be carefully removed from the drive. It is an interference fit without any fasteners. 6. You now have a bare 2TB, Samsung Spinpoint M9T drive that is only 9.5 mm tall! Great for laptops and the PS4. 7. Install in your new device per your device manufacturer's instructions. Enjoy!
5|Microsoft Vista on Dell computer recognized the drive immediately. Used Seagate Dashboard to backup with "Snapshot" backup instead of a scheduled regular backup. It did not copy the AppData directory which has email files which is one I particularly wanted to make sure so I had to manually drag and drop to the drive. No problem. I had "show all hidden files" turned on on the directory where AppData exist but it still did not copy. I also expected to have an image of the drive copied but it only copied my files which is OK at this point. I am going to examine using Microsoft backup even though it requires a scheduled backup and examine other backup software. In general the drive is everything I expected. Time will tell!
5|This drive is great, and an excellent travel companion to my Macbook Air. When reformatted to HFS+ it works fine with a Mac. On my 2013 Air, I noticed the system extension iousbattachedscsi.kext loads when this drive is connected-meaning it supports UASP. Read up on it and you'll see why this is a good thing-it's fast! Kudos to Seagate for supporting an emerging standard that makes a real difference.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable Worth buying Very beautiful and easy is a good choice for buying and appropriate Regards
5|So light and smooth yet holds so much!! Love it. at a great price too! Its compatible with both windows and macs which makes it great.
4|Bought this to back up some old video I had digitized and as a backup for my wife's PC (document, pictures, etc.). All together, we were backing up about 200 GB. The Seagate Dashboard software installed easily and we set it up for "continuous" backup to assure my wife's work (mostly MS Word documents) would be protected. Well, within three days we started getting warnings that the 1 TB drive was >90% full and should be replaced. Although I could only identify about 250 GB on the drive, I decided to start over. I cleared the drive, including the digitized videos which were not re-stored, and set it up again for continuous backup of my wife's stuff (< 100 GB). Two days later, more warnings that the drive was nearly full and should be replaced. So, we contacted Seagate tech support and they suggested we uninstall the Seagate Dashboard and download/install Seagate Backup Manager. We did that and started over again with continuous backup. That's been about 10 days now and the drive seems to be working properly now. This is a fantastic, compact and fast (USB 3.0) storage/backup device and the price is very good. It just might be made better by simply removing the pre-installed software and using something else (like the Backup/Restore application in Windows Vista/7/8).
5|First off: I love this drive so much that I bought another one last night. I have already recommended it to a number of friends. It does much more than I expected from it. It is also very small and I like the design. It works with both Windows and Mac simultaneously without having to reformat. That requires an install of Paragon NTFS, which comes preloaded for your Mac driver. So, I can exchange music, pictures, videos, and documents between both Mac and PC. Pretty exciting. Other software is also included or you can download programs (free) from the Seagate site. You can also manage devices over wifi or your cellular network. I backed up my iPhone without being connected to the driver. To do this, I just needed to download the Seagate Backup application (also free). I did this on my iPhone and my iPad. The information backed-up to both the storage device and the cloud. You can choose to use Dropbox or Google as your cloud. You can also archive pictures and videos to and from your social networks. These things can be done via the Seagate Dashboard download. There is also a utility driver that can manage the health of your drive and diagnose problems.
5|No problems with it so far. Everything is what it says to be on the description. Backed up to computers and still have a lot of memory left.
5|Like every hardware company in Silicon Valley, Seagate would like to provide differentiation via software as hardware--especially hard disk drives--become commoditized. That said, I didn't have much luck with the software, and pretty much uninstalled it after I installed it. Since I was already using CrashPlan, I just wanted to use this HDD as a secondary backup destination. And since I already use plenty of file sharing services, I had zero motivation to test drive a new one. So, after I uninstalled the pre-loaded software, I just reformatted the drive so I could have the maximum storage space. The hardware, on the other hand, is impressive. I was pleasantly surprised at how quiet, cool, light and compact this 1 TB storage device is. You almost think it might be a solid state drive, but of course at this price point that is currently impossible. And for an external storage device, SSD is overkill for most applications anyway. With USB 3.0 support backups happen as fast as the host machine can send data. I was very pleased with this drive and highly recommend it.
4|Powerful light and small enough to carry with you everywhere you go. Used it mainly to keep all my photographs. MC
5|Top qalitiy. I have from germany buyit. Seagate Backup Plus Slim 2TB Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup USB 3.0 with top prise.
5|At only 5c/gb, it is one of the cheapest external hard drives available. It is about the size of a medium-sized smartphone. I can easily fit it in my laptop bag and carry it around. Googled 'best external hard drives' and one of the articles reviewed this as their top choice - I agree!
4|Super slim and simple to use. Highly recommend it to anyone looking for an external hard drive that is compact and reliable.
4|It's great having a reliable 1TB hard drive that fits in my pocket. However, the dashboard software was not to my liking, and I bought Acronis true Image instead. The combination works fine, backing up three computers.
5|Wonderful backup device. As most of us know "all hard drives die". Not backing up your work is foolish. Now there really isn't any excuse. Storage is cheap and reliable. This drive is the perfect pocket drive for all of your date. Recommended.
5|Met with all of my expectations. Smaller than I thought, which is a giant plus. Couldn't have asked for a better product.
4|The drive arrived ahead of schedule. It's smaller and lighter than what I had been using - nice. The back up software is intuitive. I'd buy another one.
5|I needed large hard drive to fit in a mini itx case for HDTV DVR so it had to be fast and reliable with lots of storage. I been using a few old desktop 2TB WD maid for recording video in DVR there the only ones that i tried out of many that held up over the years well this little guy is faster and works better. no longer does the sound delay or loose focus and even stop working because of fast forward or reversing the video. my girlfriend crashed it with that old drive. well no more I hope it last as long as the other drives at least 6 -8 years I have 6 drives that now that I see even this laptop drive out performs them I going to replace if this drive holds up over a year or two if I can hold out that long. it has been 4+ months, so far flawless. its on all the time 24/7 recording HDTV shows with windows 81. media center and a 4 channel USB digital tuner for cable to use with cable card so it can be recording 4 HDTV channels at the same time to this drive . this drive has not even hiccupped even with fast forward or revers wile its recording all 4 channels. this is a quality drive I think the best laptop drive to date
5|well, it's indeed satisfy my taste.. it's a compact, tough buddy to hold my data.. the speed is around 90MB/s using USB3.0, I found it convenient to use.. well bought.. =)
5|Great little external. Small enough to not eat up a lot of room if you travel, perfect for a movie drive or what ever you may need. If I need another external I would be happy to purchase another Seagate.
5|I really liked the size of the hard drive. It is nice and thin. Great for back up storage. I would buy it again
5|What I do no know about computers - can fill a library. That is why I have an IT firm on retainer. Was instructed to purchase a product such as the Seagate. The price was right - the storage size was fine. It worked as expected from plug in. If 1 TB storage works for you - this is a great purchase.
3|Had to call for tech support as soon as I received the hard drive. Software did not work when I received it. Took 2 calls and approx. 1.5 hours to finally fix the problem. The second tech finally downloaded it with different software and so far it has been working as expected.
4|The backup software seemed interesting at first. However, it changes the time/date of all the files to the current time and date. It may not be a problem to some users, but it would be a major one for my file keeping.
5|I usually buy WD Element drives for backups, but they are just too expensive at the moment. I wanted to expand my backup storage, and this time I wanted to get USB3 external drives and these seem to fit the bill. With that being said, here's my initial impressions: Pros: 1. Small Form Factor. 2. Nice Finish 3. Very good performance over USB3 copying files. 4. Bus powered, no need for an additional power supply, although some USB2 ports may not offer enough power so it wont work with those. Cons: 1. Short USB 3 Cable. Wow, could they have made the USB cable any shorter? I can barely plug this into my desktop back USB port without it hanging because of the very short cable length. Amazon has the "basics" USB 3 cable for this currently $5.49 for 3 feet, so figure the cost of that into this unit if you need something longer. 2. Vibration: I bought two of these drives to act as a dual back up for each other, and one is barely noticeable with vibration and the other is vibrating like a vibrator. I think I may return that one because I don't trust the longevity/reliability of it with the way it's vibrating. Other: For the price of this unit, they really should have thrown in a protective sleeve (and a longer USB 3 cable.) But, great work on the form factor and capacity/price point...I just hope these prove reliable beyond the 2 year warranty -- I hope to get at least 6-8 years of service life out of them. Update 12/16/2015 -- Since I bought the original drives over a year ago, they are still working very well. I bought some more of them during Black Friday 2015 and very happy with their performance -- but the USB3 cable is still short on the new drives I bought this year, they haven't increased the length since last year.
5|It is so small, I was surprised that it had so much capacity and it does not require a separate power cord but uses a single USB connection for all it's needs.
5|Arrived well in time and worked right out the box. The 3.0 is flawless and the device itself is pretty sturdy and sleek. Would definitely recommend to some one needing more space.
4|Compact, sleek, lightweight, and works as intended. Everything I could ever need in an external hard drive. I was using the WD brand before this, and let me tell you, this is a seriously huge improvement. My only issue is the price increase for any color that isn't block. A little petty, in my opinion.
5|I ordered the drive and the case for my son who is away at school it was so easy for him to use they work perfectly thanks everything arrived ahead of schedule great vendor!
5|I’ve been using this to back-up photos and videos for about 3 weeks (once a week). The Dashboard (user interface) works fine with Windows 8.1, the 3.0 USB is considerably faster when hooked up to my PC’s 3.0 USB port and it works as well (but faster) than my old Click-free back-up. I’ve had no problems with this yet, so 5 stars for now.
2|it's very slow to load stuff and to transfer it gets the job done but that's it I would not buy it again.
2|Connected to both USB 3.0 ports on Del Precision 6700 i7, 32GB RAM. Have 7200 RPM HD . Transferred multiple files, 1GB and larger, over several weeks. Never got more than 90 Mbps. on average 80 Mbps
5|I bought this device for backups and a place to store still and video files that I work with. It works without the software; however, if you want to do backups, you will need the software which install easily. The device has a slim style, great color and easily slips inside the red Case Logic Portable EVA Hard Drive Case QHDC-101 that I purchased to go along with it.
5|Super light and portable, easy to use. Only had it a few months so I can't speak to reliability but so far so good.
4|On the hardware side, I have no complains. Is very small (a little bigger than a Blackberry 9320), it's really fast (even on USB 2.0), and gets the job done (100GB took like 2 and a half hours to copy on the 1TB version). It's awesome. However, in the software side, it really needs some tweaks. First, the automatic backups are somewhat messy. Each time the software finds a new file, it will back it up, but it creates a new folder with the date to do it. I would like if it could back up to the same folder each time, so I don't have files scattered all over the drive. Second, I've tried to use the mobile backup app, but didn't work (I've tried it on a Samsung S4 mini). The software on the phone recognizes the drive, the software on the laptop recognizes the phone, but I always get an error. I reinstalled the software on the phone and on the laptop, and still doesn't work. It's a little dissapointing. I haven't tried the social media backup, or the Mac driver, so I can't tell at the moment if they work or not. So, as an external hard drive, I would definitely recommend it. As a backup utility, it really needs to improve the features, especially with the phone. EDIT: After reviewing the firewall rules, I noticed that only the main program (Dashboard.exe) had rules applied. I created a new rule for MobileService.exe, and now the mobile backup works as expected. So I now give the Backup Plus 5 stars for the hardware and 4 for the software (I gave it 2.5 for the software at the beginning). After two and a half months, it stills works perfectly. I partitioned the drive (one as FAT32, the other remained as NTFS) and it's working pretty well. I'm very pleased with my purchase.
5|Although I use an app for computer backup, it works believe me! or maybe not and try that feature, please.
1|Worked fine when I used the two-headed Y cable, but when connecting to the Surface with the single connection, I am seeing classic behaviour of an external drive that is hungry for power. Booting with it connected seems to take forever, applications freeze, ultimately was never able to see drive contents at all. I'll update this if/when I see progress but for now, big red flag not working at all as a mobile drive with my Surface Pro 2.
5|This is excellent. But, I was not able to have the 200MB/s speed advertised though. The most important it has 4TB.
5|I bought this to use with my PS4 since inside the case it contains the Samsung M9T 9mm hard drive, and I have to say it works great in my system with one drawback though. The PS4 will not turn on from a complete shutdown without delaying the startup. To get this drive to work in a PS4 you can do one of two things, one is just keep the PS4 in standby mode, then it will turn on fine every time. The second is where the problem occurs and you get the BLUE LIGHT OF DEATH (its not actually dead), this happens when you turn the PS4 completely off. If you have to do this then hold down the power button for 6-6.5 seconds and release before it triggers safe mode at 7.5 seconds, this delays the HDMI handshake giving the hard drive enough time to fully power up thus avoiding the BLOD. I have been using this drive in my PS4 and it works great! I just keep it in standby mode and if I ever need to turn it off I just do exactly what I stated above and it works every time. Good luck and happy gaming!!!
5|Just started using it but it worked right out of the box. Formatted it for mac to use Time Machine and everything is working great. Got the blue one and love the color.
5|Backup is easy and I like the slim size of this product. Easy to use. I highly recommend this external drive.
4|Seagate makes good drives. I've always been happy with their performance, but their software seems to be universally bogged down. The backup software included here is no different; a lot of hangs, delays and blotchy performance. The first install failed for no reason. The second went it fine but locked up on the config, forcing a reboot. One I did get it going, I setup a backup and was disappointed at the lack of control. The backup itself took over 12 hours for 175gb. Far too slow, and the files are not in a very easily accessible format. All and all, the software holds back the drive and my computer as a whole. I wiped the drive and ditched the software. I gave it a fair shake and it's just not for me. I went back to Fbackup which has a nice clean interface, simple menus, and great versatility. The backup to this Seagate only took 5 hours and that included data verification. The drive has an interesting power cable. It's a proprietary double wide connector that I suspect supplies more stable power. However, you can also plug a standard micro Usb to it. So bonus there for not shafting us with just a proprietary cable option. I like this drive but hate the software. Seems to be par for the course with me for Seagate. Good overall.
5|When it comes to finding a 2TB drive to fit inside my laptop, this is really your only option right now. The bare drive is not being sold in normal consumer channels. The drive has normal SATA connectors and works great in my Macbook Pro unibody. However, beware that the drive inside does not have a normal warranty, as Seagate indicates it was sold as a system component.
5|Great drive for the money. I had one that got corrupted. Always make sure to safely remove the USB drive.
2|I purchased a larger Seagate Backup Plus Slim drive because my smaller one was filling up. Until that time I had liked the drive and the way it worked fine. I thought the filling up of the drive as natural as it was in service for a few years and had lots of data on it besides the Seagate Dashboard created backups. When my 1TB drive filled up within a few weeks of purchase I contacted Seagate Support. They said this was normal given that I wanted to a continuous (i.e., incremental) backup. Apparently the software creates a resort point every time it does a backup but doesn't remove the old restore points. This seems archaic to me. Changing the backup plan to "daily" fixed my problem. However, that's not what I wanted, plus their "upgrade" of the Seagate Dashboard software is worse from a user standpoint than previous versions. I never had an issue with the hardware itself insofar as speed or problems go, but I will never buy another Seagate product due to their horrible approach to software.
5|I haven't had this long and have only backed up my computer twice, but haven't had any issues as of yet. Everything seems to be simple and straightforward as of now... here's to hoping it continues.
5|I really really like this. It is fast and very small. I was surprised at how thin it actually was. It is quiet and it runs fast. It recognizes very quickly when connected to the computer. I plan on sticking to Seagate in the future for portable hard drives if I keep seeing products like this. Very nice.
5|Pros: -You can use this interchangeably between Windows and Mac without reformatting the drive. However for Mac, you need to install the pre-loaded NTFS driver first. -Drive is plug and play on a Windows PC. -This drive is really quite small, compared to the size of portable drives of just a few years ago. -This drive comes with a cable that has USB 3.0 to Micro-B USB 3.0 connectors. This is for connecting to any PC with a "normal" USB connector. This new 3.0 connector is to help in higher data transfer speeds. -The 3.0 USB data transfer speeds are indeed faster than 2.0. (Your mileage may vary due to a multitude of factors too lengthy to list here). -Very quiet running drive. No noticeable drive noise while working. Very minor cons: -Not instantly plug and play for Mac (but it doesn’t claim to be). -Some drives can get warm when using intensively. This one is about average; warm but not hot. -The drive seems fairly rugged but the Western Digital external drives are a little more rugged IMO.
5|Amazing Hard Drive! Works as expected... gives me read and write speeds of 100+ mbps over USB 3.0. And the best part is... It fits in your pocket!!!
5|I selected this item from the Vine because I wanted to back up my hard drive. The 1TB external use is set up with 3 USB; however, my computer uses the 2 USB so down time was a little slower than what this unit is capable of. It took about 30 minutes to backup 150MB. I downloaded the dashboard or menu that came on the unit. You don't need to to operate it, but I wanted to see what it would do. You have two options, you can manually backup your unit, or you can set a scheduled backup time. It doesn't allow you to pick and choose the files. Like most backup systems, it will only backup your data, it will not copy the entire hard drive including programs. The unit is very compact and quiet. It has room to spare for the types of data and music that I store.
5|This drive i great! It's smaller then I thought it was, In dimensions not storage space. it's a one Terabyte just like i wanted so far I have had it for a month and a half and it has had no issues. It's a great hard drive for anyone who wants lots of space and wants to be able to carry their data from place to place.
5|I use several external hard drives for my computers and have never had any problem with the Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB units. They work readily with a Mac when one uses Time Machine. I cannot stress enough that with Macs, one can generally have a better experience using Time Machine and not using the onboard Seagate software. These units keep getting smaller and run cooler and cooler. The initial backup has always taken a long time for me - it's an overnight job, taking hours. After that it can backup any number of times as needed, determined by Time Machine during the day.
4|I had an HP backup drive that got sick so I needed something to replace it. This has more bytes than I really needed, but I guess you can never have too much. The backup software seems to work just fine on my Windows 7 desktop. But what I really like is the small size of this device. It isn't much bigger than a smart phone so I am able to set it on top of my desktop and not take up any space on my desk.
5|Used as an internal drive, works great, no issues at all. It does click once in a while, but I think thats normal.
1|I decided to purchase this drive after my wife's regular Seagate Backup Plus has been quite handy for over a year now. To start, I actually liked this drive for the two weeks I used it. However I was shocked when after sitting unused on my desk for a few days I went to plug the drive in to do a time machine backup and nothing. No vibrating, no signs of life, and neither my Macbook Air or my Toshiba PC recognized the drive. The drive refuses to mount and shows absolutely no signs of life except for the little light on the top left. I'm so disappointed and angry and I'm hoping customer service does something about this. At this point I don't think I would ever buy or recommend a Seagate device again.
2|I bought this drive as an step between backing up my Aperture library and Amazon S3. Early product information suggested the drive would work both as a RAID 0 (striped) or RAID 1 (mirrored) drive. What could be better? A portable, RAID 1 drive with mirrored data for redundancy that didn't require a power supply! Unfortunately, Seagate has limited the drive to RAID 0. While it is speedy, you've got a piece of hardware that is limited by software. Hopefully they correct this in the future.
5|I really like this little hard drive. It has 931 gigabytes of free space, and it's incredibly easy to use. I pulled it out of the box, plugged it in, and was backing up data almost immediately. Transfer speeds are relatively quick (about the same as most external hard drives and flash drives), and I've had no problems with it yet.
3|I bought this based on a misleading review saying that it works perfectly for the ps4, after taking the shelling off. It does not. I had it working after many tries, only for it to fail again. Works great on computers. Impressed by the size. Just wish i had a laptop to put it in...
4|This is great piece of equipment in that it is very small (would easily fit into a short pocket) and holds 1 TB of data. I use with my MacBook (with Mavericks) for Time Machine back up and it worked well, though took several hours to do the initial back up of about 300 GB of data from my USB 2 port. Subsequent backups have been much quicker. My only complaint about this product (and I will ding it a star) is the lack of documentation that comes with it. There is a very small information sheet and (from other reviews) you need to go online for documentation, something not clear (to me) from the info sheet. As\fter some Google searching, I found the info needed to get this up and running to run TIme Machine (needed to put the disk in Mac format), but I felt this should have been much easier to know this - basically had to find this on my own. Recommended as a good piece of hardware - just may need to get some online help to set it up.
5|Perfect. Seagate is in my humble opinion the best manufacturer of hard disk drive. As an IT professional, other brands just do not stack up to the longevity & reliability I have found in these products. Drive is good & speedy. I bought it for my girl & she makes regular use of it without complaint.
5|I have had hard drives before and this one works as well. Usually you do not know how long it will last, though, as that is the main problem with external hard drives.
5|As a graphic designer who has to take his work with him to clients, this product is small and compact, light weight and easy to travel with and a real heavyweight when it comes to storage. I would recommend this product to the novice as well as the professional graphic designer or photographer. And importantly, it is a great product at an affordable price.
5|Compact, easy to use, convenient. User instructions for Mac a little vague for a non tech person. Like the intro.
1|The product description says that this is for a PC or a Mac. I have a Mac and after downloading the Seagate Dashboard software, it only allows the options of backing up social media files or Mobile device files. I use this same drive at work to back up a PC and it works well to back up the PC every day. But apparently not for a mac.
5|This portable hard drive from Seagate allows backing up remotely to the drive itself or to the cloud. Basically when this drive is hooked up to a networked PC via USB it allows backups controlled from a smartphone or tablet using the mobile backup app. As far as I could tell it only allows control from smart devices that are on the same network as the PC that the drive is connected to. If you're on the road and connected to the internet you cannot start a remote backup session to the drive..only to the cloud which requires an annual fee. The drive has a very stylish slim design. The top is aluminum which functions as a heatsink. The drive has a white LED that glows..cycling from bright to dim, it does not flash or flicker like the activity lights from other portable drives. The light could be switched off via the Dashboard application. The drive is powered by a single USB connection and comes with a 12" USB 3.0 cable. Build quality seems to be good and the drive is quiet and runs cool though it does get warm but not hot if you do large continuous transfers. Seagate doesn't include a carry pouch which is a shame given that you probably wouldn't want to get this nice looking drive all scratched up during transport. I ended up purchasing a Case Logic Portable EVA Hard Drive Case QHDC-101 (Gray) which the Seagate fits into perfectly.
4|Works Good.. Very slim,faster and worth the price. I would recommend for it. It is really Good.and I Like It.
5|This is our second Backup Plus. Its actually the backup for our backup! WE store all of our children's pics & videos, so if anything happened to the memory we'd be devastated!!! Hence the reason for having two of these. We have owned the first one for about a year & a half with no issues. They are very small, never get hot, and are incredibility easy to use; plug in, open the window & just drag & drop what you want to back up. Pics, videos, movies, any files. Data loads pretty fast. They are thin and small enough to store away easily. Honestly, keep the box it comes with, including the plastic blister pack; it works a a great shock-protecting storage case!
5|Remember when your PC had a hard drive of 250mb and you thought you owned the world in capability to download and save files? I just received my Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive and I not sure if all of the music, photos and other files would fit... probably not. But all kidding aside, I save just the important stuff. I've scanned all of the thousands of photos I have accumulated throughout the years of my kids and life in general. I have a separate external drive for my Music, one for my important files and now one large enough to fit my family photos. This little drive is really nice. It runs on the USB 3.0, which means it cuts hours from the transfer time and it wil hold all of my photos. Of course I keep these drives locked away safe & sound in case of fire or any other reason important stuff might disappear or get destroyed. It took forever to scan each individual photo, but now that I have them on file, I want to keep them safe. What better way than to have a external drive, just get ne that will hold your stuff. Works great, lots of room and super fast. What more could you want.
5|I can hardly believe how small this unit is... and being USB 3.0 is fast, super fast... I have all kind of flash drives, and of course are smaller, but this unit will fit in your pocket and carries ONE TERABYTE of info... I loved so much, I ordered another one... BTW costs just a tiny bit more than a 64G flash drive... I love it...
4|After purchasing several of these and using them as both external (with the case intact), then liberating them from their respective cases and using as a internal drive, I've found their reliability to differ. After testing across multiple platforms I ran into a common problem when used as an external drive. The issue was when moving large quantities of data. If I set up multiple folder copies at the same time via cut and paste operations the drive would slowly but surely choke, eventually going to 0 kb/sec on all transfers. It wouldn't crash, it would just sit idle and not move the data. To overcome this I would move individual folders (basically set up one stream) and data transfer rates would sustain at very good rates. Popping the drive from the case and moving it to an internal drive directly off of the sata interface did not have this problem. Multi folder simultaneous transfers moved just fine. My guess is that perhaps at the USB 3 interface was not providing quiet enough power for the large quantity of seek requests that the drive required for multi folder simultaneous transfers. But as mentioned as an internal drive it works flawlessly.
2|Don't know what happened, but I only had a few of weeks before it crashed or something. Fortunately, I only had a couple of things on it. It won't even connect to the computer anymore. Oh well!
5|great device to back up several PC's 'rescue mirrors': once we get a PC set up the way we like it, a mirror file of settings, programs files etc needed for a clean restore is saved so we can always go back to restore the machine to pristine conditions. We do this a couple times a year to keep things lighting fast!
5|I needed a drive that would work between my MacBook Pro and my Windows PC and it does a great job!
5|A great name and a great product with Seagate. I wouldn't but from any other company. I know that seagate stands by the quality of it's product. Worth the investment.
5|Great price! Great product! This works great and to top it off it is USB 3.0. Works with Mac and PC out of the box.
5|I previously used the Seagate Backup Plus Slim External Hard Drive that has half this capacity. This version asked me to get new downloads, but it was again an easy process. I set it up to run, and it behaved exactly as advertised. This is truly a simple and reliable way to backup all your important computer data... without clouds and monthly fees!
5|This is a perfect laptop companion drive. It’s slim enough to easily slip into even small laptop bags and basically go anywhere your laptop goes. Despite the tiny size, the drive still transfers data briskly at USB 3.0 speed. I own two of these drives, one silver, one grey. One is formatted for Mac and the other is formatted for PC. This review is for the Mac formatted unit. The drive comes pre-formatted NTFS and works with both operating systems right out of the box. I immediately erased this drive and reformatted it to OSX extended journaled. It took all of thirty seconds to do so in the disk utility. I did so because I plan to use it exclusively with OSX. If you want to use it cross-platform, leave it as-is. I backed up the pre-loaded Seagate dashboard software before I erased the drive but I will likely never use it. Time Machine is more than sufficient for my Mac backups. I use the drive to supplement my retina Macbook Pro as an extension of the internal drive. The rMBP’s don’t come with a ton of SSD storage (unless you spend a ton of money). If you have the 256GB SSD like me, or lower, a drive like this is a necessity. With this drive available to house all my photo/video media, data files, music and my iTunes library, my MacBook SSD internal drive remains free and available for my apps and other data that must reside on the internal SSD. This is where the slimness and portability of this drive really shines. You get 1TB of storage in a drive that’s nearly as thin as a pencil. It goes everywhere I go, meaning I’m never without my external drive. I’ve had the Windows drive for several months now and I’ve copied a couple hundred gigs of data back and forth with no issues so far. I'm rapidly approaching one hundred gigs on this drive and should exceed it very soon. These drives get a lot of work and move a lot of data, so if they fail or let me down, I'll advise ASAP. Until then, nothing but great speed, portability and reliability so far.
4|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is slightly thicker than the old Seagate Slim drives, but it also has a bigger capacity. It's still much smaller than what you might be used to in an external hard drive. There's really not much to the drive. It has a USB 3.0 port in the back and a thin sliver of a power/activity LED on top. A short USB 3.0 cable is included. Unfortunately, Seagate seems to prefer not putting rubber feet on the bottom of their portable hard drives, so it will slide around a bit on your desk. Performance-wise, the Seagate Backup Plus Slim is fantastic. Over USB 3.0, I got a sequential read speed of 122MB/s and an identical write speed of 122MB/s. I'm pretty familiar with the Seagate Dashboard software, since I already use it for backups to an external Seagate desktop drive. It's pretty good for backups and some basic config options. I don't have an interest in the social or mobile backups, so I can't give an account of how those function. The drive has a 2-year warranty, which is shorter than some of Seagate's own drives and shorter than Western Digital's slim portable hard drives. WD's drives also come with encryption for added security, while the Seagate does not. The Seagate does, however, have a built-in NTFS driver that will let the NTFS-formatted drive work on both PCs and Macs without any problems. I already have Paragon NTFS on my Mac, so it matters little to me, but for those who don't, the Seagate makes using the drive between the two operating systems as seamless as possible. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB drive is a good value and a great choice for users want to use it with both Macs and Windows PCs. If that's not a requirement, though, I might recommend checking out the comparable Western Digital drives that are slightly more expensive, but have a longer warranty and offer encryption options.
5|after taking off the Seagate software and reformatting the drive It worked great. because I did like the software that came with the drive.
5|This external hard drive is slightly larger than my iPhone, but its thickness is about the same as my iPhone. The thin and compact case is an aesthetically-pleasing slate gray that resists finger smudges, and it runs quietly. This USB-powered external-hard drive operates up to USB 3.0 speeds. Using a third-party testing tool, this drive performed at 106 megabytes per second for sequential reads, and 107 megabytes for sequential writes. The actual copy speeds from an internal solid-state drive to this hard drive varied between 35 and 45 megabytes per second according to the basic Windows copy-file function. This is about the same as my other USB 3.0 external hard drives perform. This drive comes with backup software, called Seagate Dashboard, that can be configured to run continuously or as needed. I installed and configured this backup software to run continuously on a laptop that has about 200 gigabytes of user data. It took a few hours to perform the initial backup and then it continued to backup files as they were added, changed or deleted. These continuous backups seem to occurred within minutes of making file changes to my laptop. This fast drive sits on my desk and backs up my work, mostly pictures and videos, as I load and edit them on my laptop. This makes backing up my laptop a worry-free operation. This is a really nice hard drive.
5|Simple and reliable back up with no fuss or muss. Single USB 3.0 cord. No issues connecting and backing up a netbook, desktop, and laptop.
5|PROS: I needed an external HDD that can store all my images for my Virtual Machines I create. So far it has worked great it does what it is suppose to and transfer speeds are very acceptable I think. CONS: None
5|Seagate Backup Worked wonderful was able to get items off desktop wih no problems. Would recommend this product to everyone,
5|It is just like it says. And I got plenty of storage for a while now. Then I'll be getting another.
5|I also bought the Western Digital's 'My Passport' and I must say that this one is better. Quieter, with a better design and thiner (but larger), this External Hard Drive works perfectly for me. No problems so far and I didn't have to install all the software they suggested, which is good.
5|This product is really working good. Like this item because its not to big and handy I recommend this to my friends and office mate.
4|I really liked how easy this was to set up and use. I plugged it in and forgot about it. It automatically backs up my hard drive every sunday. Great product.
5|This is small, but powerful. It truly is a plug and play, and didn't take much to get my back up going on it. I noticed it did speed up the weekly back-up of my laptop. Great size, perfect for using with a laptop with lots of videos.
5|Does exactly what I need it to do, easy to use, many options, haven't had any problems with it, love it!
5|I've been needing one of these for a long time, and finally had a chance to purchase one. My first choice was a brilliant one. For now it is perfect, but I may need more space for storage as time prevails.
5|Shipping was instantaneous, the drive is quality made brushed metal top black plastic bottom. It's very slim, sleek and small - naturally the USB 3.0 is also very fast.
4|This was a new technology for me so took me a while to figure out how to use it for back up of my laptop and also to create recovery files for same. Once got it going everything went smoothly and I hardly made a dent in the capacity of storage on this drive. Much smaller than I had imagined in physical size which was a good thing. I have calculators that are larger! Was quick at transferring files with USB 3.0. Definitely recommend as a good product and good value, too.
5|I do a lot of photography and needed more storage. This 2TB drive fit the bill and worked out of the box with my MacBook Pro without much tinkering. It may not have the fastest transfer speed on the market, but having USB 3.0 and not needing a power brick to add to the wiring clutter makes up for it. It is light-weight and works great for my purposes.
5|so thin and portable ye3t stores up to 500gb i love it.... i got one for myself and a friend as a gift. we both love it. thakn you
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim, 1TB Manufacturer: Seagate Amazon: $67.58 I am a big fan of Seagate hard drives; over the years I have used several of them. They are reliable, durable and have long warranties; this one has a two-year warrantee. The Backup Plus Slim is a beauty. Its case tight with close-fitted seams making it durable. I have the 1TB size which is plenty since I use it to make cloned backups of my iMac’s hard disk. It’s small size (4-1/4” x 3” x 3/8”) makes it very portable (or easily hidden if you want to tuck it away from prying eyes when you travel.) The Backup Plus Slim uses speedy USB 3.0 connectivity but will also work with the older USB 2.0 technology. There is no external power requirement as the drive gets its power from the USB connection. The drive comes pre-loaded with both Mac and Windows Dashboard software. I must admit that I erase my drives, format them for the Mac platform, and perform backups with software that I already own. In my case, it’s an application called SuperDuper. I cannot comment on the software that Seagate included with this drive. The drive includes an 18 inch USB cable and has a small LED activity light. I really like this little drive, it’s perfect for my backups, is totally quite and, so far, is very reliable. If you aren’t backing up regularly, you owe it to yourself to get your hands on one of these drives right away. One Terabyte for less that $70.00 is a good price. Don’t wait for data loss to make you decide to begin a good backup strategy. Begin now!
5|Works interchangeably with MAC & PC, once software is installed. I had already saved data to drive using PC, & all the info read indicated that the drive would be erased while installing the software on the Mac. I decided to go ahead & install the software because I needed the drive to be interchangeably, and surprise! the data was not erased. Now the drive is interchangeable between Mac & PC. Love it! Have 3 - red, blue & black. Wish I had a need for more!
5|Not much bigger physically than WD 2TB and more than twice as fast. Almost as fast as some SSD's and several times larger.
1|Please do not move data on to this drive without having it backed up somewhere else. It WILL error and fail. I thought I did enough research on this drive and figured it was an excellent buy. What I should've researched besides the price and quality was the troubleshooting and problems people ran into. Not even 2 weeks from getting this drive, the light started blinking on it and the drive was unreadable. Googling the problem to try to figure it out, I discovered this happens to MANY of Seagates drives that are rendered useless. Warranty states they will replace your drive since it failed but data recovery is not covered and you will end up paying $400-$2000 to recover your drive when you send it in to them. I'm not saying this is their scam but it's incredible how frustrating the company who is supposed to protect people's data is fine with their products failing almost instantly ALL THE TIME. Put your money into a better drive. Trust me, losing years of data and important work documents and paying hundreds of dollars to get it back is NOT worth it.
1|Bought this drive and performed the following upon which I retired for the night to come back to a nerfed drive! 1.) reformatted for MAC (journaled no case sensitivity) 2.) mounted the drive and began moving data 3.) next morning (which was 7 hours later) drive error (disconnected device) began checking to see if it was a loose connection (which was not moved or touched in 7 hours) 4.) checked @ work on a windows 7 machine and debugged the USB on a RHEL 6.4 2.6 custom dev kernel Called Seagate Argued about 70Gb of Sensitive Critical work data including 15 years of Corporate Email -- got authorization to crack and rack the drive to get my data off (as i was not paying them to touch anything) Cracking open the case top is aluminum "you can pry it up with your fingers it is sticky taped down" one wire grounding... mind you plastic bottom. drive and shield come out... (with the usb3.0 sata converter) Drive inside is a Samsung momentus... if your perplexed I was as well Considering Seagate made the momentus now Samsung is making them... upon pulling the shielding back which is grounded to the top of the drive and the aluminum top is grounded to the drive and not the shielding. (checkout youtube and witness the dissassembly) the usb 3.0 board is tightly packed and inside the shielding which has minimal surface area on the usb 3.0 connector connection. After removing the shielding and also removing the usb 3.0 (dead adapter) I was able to retrieve the data from the drive with a sata to usb adapter. Results: this drive has a crappy USB 3.0 adapter the village idiots in china who built it created a faraday cage around the drive, but and not surprisingly built it WRONG! only idiots fail to built a proper static shield and the USB 3.0 to sata adapter they built is just like I would get in singapore or hong kong 5 feet or 5 minutes (whichever come first) .
4|nice equipment, no problem here. It gives me what I purchased it for - from a hardware point of view. I am missing a decent description on the usage, however. For this amount of money, one should expect to have all the information for a quick start and basic usage readily available; w/o the need to search through the company's website or YouTube.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is a very compact external hard drive with one port for USB 3.0, which also supplies the power. It performed well with benchmarks over 100 MB/s sequential read and write. I transferred 750 MB of mixed files and got about 80MB/s to and from the Seagate Backup Plus Slim. I transferred 22 GB of pictures and that took about 5 1/2 minutes = 15 seconds per gig, or 67 MB/s. I didn't notice much heat or noise.
5|This is great, I hope they can make it without the external case so I can install it into my laptop!
5|this is a nice smaller version of the first seagate back up I bought lots of memory for my high res photos to back up I like it!
5|Sent this item out to have converted movies put on it, the company uses PC file format. WHen I got it back, I called Seagate and their great customer service department guided me through how to set up my MAC to use all the files and write new ones to it. I would strongly recomend this product
5|This a great device for storage and back up. Not only is a small, easy to carry, but it has large storage (4 terabytes) and transfer files very fast!
5|I purchased a similar drive over a year ago from Seagate. It was a 750 Gigabyte version but perhaps slightly thicker. Anyway I love it and have no issues what so ever with it so I wanted another one to back up whatever I want to. Really holds a lot and for the price it is well worth it. I trust Seagate's quality from my experience with their products so I will stick with them until they disappoint me. Keep your receipt and from what I've read I'm sure Seagate will honor their warranty. It truly amazes me how small this hard drive is and can store so much at this price. Choose your favorite color or one that suits your needs.
5|Seagate/Samsung has my respect. I'll be buying this brand in the future too! I will amend this review if the drive does anything terrible to me.
5|This portable Hard Drive is the best. Fast connection, super thin and small, lightweight and holds a ton of data. I carry this now in the backpack everywhere I go and it almost always gets people talking about the form factor size, weight, and speed. While not a direct substitute for a thumbdrive, after seeing this device I would ask why even think about carrying anything else?
5|Works great with my Mac. Quiet, fast, sturdy. I use it for a back up that can travel with me. Perfect.
5|Love, love, love the fact that it has so much space, I highly recommend this to backup all important files.
5|This External Hard Drive is great. I was able to power it with external power, via a usb hub and connect it to a DVR to download all of my saved shows and movies. Great product, great price!
4|There is no question that moving our music and important computer documents is getting to be a bit bigger chore with each and every new computer we have today. But nevertheless, the more the media we have, the more we have to prep for the next generation in computers. Fortunately for Seagate, they absolutely have known how to make excellent hard drives and computer accessories that have worked well with all of this time and the stuff we keep downloading from music to word documents and movies. This is a absolute must have for each and every new laptop computer you get, or transferring data from a windows computer to a Mac notebook. I absolutely recommend this as a great buy for your computer. Price: B+ Convience: B+ Overall: B 1/2+
4|It is a very good backup device for both mac and pc. The reason I gave 4 stars was because it does not have instructions for Mac users. Following are the steps to do it correctly. 1. Connect external hard drive and open disk utility 2. From there, format the hard drive to Mac OS extended in order to use Time Machine program for backup 3. Once it is formatted, eject the drive and reinsert it and you will see the pop up if you want to use this drive for backup using Time Machine. 4. If you would like to use this drive for both mac and pc, you will have to make 2 partitions one with Mac os extended and other with MS-DOS (windows). you can set the amount of space for each partition. I request the authorities at Seagate to please include these simple instructions to be printed on every instruction pack that is included with products that are compatible for both operation system (Mac and Windows)
5|This Seagate Backup really is slim, and was easy to install on my iMac and another one on my wife's Macbook. Works great.
4|It was as easy as plugging it into my computer. I bought one for my Mac and my PC, both worked great. The only thing I haven't tried is the dropbox feature and just not sure how to use it, other than that it's easy.
5|Nice drive for Backup up purposes. Also works pretty well with the mobile data backup. HIghly recommend as a respectable backup drive.
5|It is hard to belive this device is a 1TB. You can cary it anywhere and has more storage than my server...which I back up to this. I back up all my pictures etc as well.
5|I bought this because I needed a new back up drive when my Western Digital 2T drive crashed losing all data I had on it. Seagate came highly recommended by the company I had try to rescue the data on the WD drive. My previous external hard drives were about the size of a hard-cover book and needed to both be connected to my laptop with a USB cable and plugged into a power outlet. This one is the size of a smart phone and only has one short USB cable getting its power from my laptop. I've had it about a month and it seems to be working fine. I've been able to retrieve data quickly from it and transferring data to it goes equally as fast.
5|More compact than my older WD Passport, and not pre-loaded with any of the odd junk that often came on the WD. You can safely toss the pre-loaded "driver" software, resulting in a perfect, functional 2TB USB3 drive that fits in a pocket.
5|This is a great external hard drive. 1TB capacity and small. It doesn't take up much room. Perfect for my laptop.
5|SSD technology is still too expensive and the benefits of it are really not necessary for the purpose of mass data storage. This is a nice blend of form and function from a company that makes products I enjoy. I recommend this.
5|So far so good. I was a little scared reading some of the reviews, but I decided I am going to back up the drive and hope for the best.
5|Very good product, user friendly and plenty of storage which is portable and can upload my videos and photos via wifi which is much easier
5|Got it for a week. Loving it. Nice, quiet, quick, no extra power cable. 2 TB!!!! I can just keep putting in data.
5|Product is fast, simple to use, and very stylish. I will continue to purchase more of these as needed for backup space. Silent and spacious.
1|I installed the drive and installed the dashboard on my Mac. I did a click and drag of my files onto the drive itself. I decided to restart my computer so I could see how much faster my laptop was doing. I did so and then the drive showed that it had NONE of my files on it. I restarted a couple of times and each time it would show something different. It would show that the drive was full but it wouldn't allow me to see the files and then it would show empty. I thought that this was a drive that I could depend on and instead, it deleted YEARS of pictures and documents that were very important to me. Submitted a claim with Seagate so we'll see if they can help. I hope I can recover my files and then this will be getting sent right back. Piece of crap!
5|I started adding videos and photos immediately without the any setup hassle. I haven't tried the syncing ability yet, but I am sure it will be easy as well.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus works just as described. It is small and fast. You just plug it in and start copying data over. I am very happy with it.
5|need this hard to save movies and impotante disk information. Like this products It't very good Good por information Love
5|Just exactly what I need. My wife put me on to it. And I wonder why I resisted so long. --reviewed by David McAllister
5|I like the size how it is compact and not bulky to bring it anywhere. I can use it both my Macbook and PC. 2TB will last me for a long time backing up my photos and music.
4|Always I wanted a hard disk and this 2tb fits all my needs. It is very compact that fits great inside my shirt pocket. The setup did take some time but once completed it was great. The file transfer speed was at an average of 22-23 Mbps. It must have been slow cause of my pc configuration. I tried to make mobile backup after I registered for a seagate account. But it said id pass was wrong. I didn't try after that. I ll check it out soon. Once am satisfied I would rate this a 5 star one. The price including shipping and tax were 40$ higher than Indian price. But as I couldn't ship more products to my place I went with amazon. Still loved it.
4|Great compact drive with enough capacity to back up current files, pictures, videos and software for use in file recovery.
2|Out of loyalty to the incredible durability I saw from Seagate drives in the 90's, I continue to buy Seagate products. I honestly don't know why. I've had so many problems with Seagate products in the past 5 years, I should have moved on although I'm not really sure what brand would be any better. As I've come to expect, this drive had a problem, a bad interface cable to be specific. I was getting a 1 MBps transfer rate where I should have been seeing 30. Fortunately I had another cable from an older drive that fixed the problem. Now the question is how long does the drive last.
5|In the evolution of the hard drive market, there can be no denial that there has been a climate change, and external drives available today are better than ever. Earlier this year, I became disenchanted with the backup product included for free in Windows 7 (after one too many "Windows cannot find any backups" messages - and after encountering one too many photos of ex-Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer - he's even less attractive than me... I think...) and the novel idea occurred to me that, just perhaps, free or bundled software products (such as Windows backup and a certain ubiquitous music player from a giant non-tax-paying corporation) are, after all, no bargain when one considers the quality of the product compared to paid software. I may be stepping out on a limb here, but, perhaps paying software development workers a fair wage for a good product is a better system than the something-for-nothing angle so popular in the earlier days of the interwebs. So I bought a dedicated "audiophile-styled" music/media player and re-ripped my CD collection using new encoders and higher bit rates. Now is the winter of our disc content made glorious. (This all started when I bought a rather inexpensive, yet very impressive digital-analog-converter for music playback.) Not wishing to be denied access to my glorious refurbished music library and newly improved playback arrangements for any technical reason, I also purchased a dedicated backup program and this Seagate 2TB external USB 3.0 drive to use with my Windows 7 64-bit OS. The slowly suffocating techno-nerd within me will likely never completely expire, and he reports he is pleased to enter the world of USB 3.0 speeds. A free utility (what did I just say?) from a popular tech website indicates that the throughput I am getting on this drive is 80-100 MB per second which I would rate as stellar. "STELLAR!" (Stanley Kowalski - A Streetcar Named Desire. Thank you!). So far as aesthetics are concerned, the metallic blue case feels sturdy - better than plastic - and is just right for that elegant evening on the town. The form factor is appealing. It's about the size of a pack of cigarettes in length and width, and about half in that depth, although I don't recommend carrying it around in your rolled-up t-shirt sleeve). It is silent in operation, or at least, unobtrusive. I have no comment on the included backup software, as I have not tried it. The USB 3.0 cable that comes with it is a bit short, but I have a feeling that is a limitation of USB 3.0 hardware implementation and not under the control of the manufacturer. All in all, so far it has worked well for me.
5|VERY PRACTICAL, lightweight easy to handle, very good price, delivery in record time, and high technology, I feel very happy with this item
1|I JUST BOUGHT AN ALIENWARE X51 COMPUTER,AND WANTED TO GET AN EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE FOR PHOTO'S AND MUSIC FILES TO STORE.AFTER HOOKING THIS DRIVE UP,IT WORKED FOR ABOUT AN HOUR THEN IT LOCKED UP MY SYSTEM, I WAS ON THE PHONE WITH COMPUTER TECH FOR AN HOUR TO GET MY NEW COMPUTER UP AND RUNNING AGAIN, I HAVE HAD SEAGATE HARD DRIVES BEFORE, BUT THIS ONE IS JUNK.
5|This unit was really plug and play after loading the software. The unit is quiet and efficient. The price was extremely low, based on the 1TB capability.
4|The external hard drive is exactly what I needed but I haven't figured out how to get it to back up automatically yet.
5|Videos music hot stuff! don't miss yhis device love it! have fun downloading and sharing things nice thx see u
5|Nice drive for the price. The price has really come down on drive storage this Seagate drive works well for me. I have had it for over two months with no problems. Gary
5|Can't fault it! Perfect little machine. Quick, small, light, amazing. USB3 is lightning fast and the lack of a required power source is very useful!
5|Efficient, with plenty of storage for my files. It is the perfect backup drive for my Mac mini. .... ....
5|It's very fast and easy to use. It meet my expectations. But there are many steps to backup data, it will be perfect if the tool is easier
5|This was wonderful - everything I expected - super easy to use for downloading files quickly and just as wonderfully easy to access them and was smaller and thinner than I imagined. LOVE IT
5|This drive is very fast (using USB 3.) and does exactly what it promises. The software is easy to use and setup. I'm pleased with it's size and build quality. Hard to beat for the price.
1|I don't hate it I haven't gotten it to work on my system yet. I need some help to figure out what I need to make it work but I am sure it will be great when I am able to use it.
4|Excellent product, I am very pleased with what I bought and still everything was excellent the way costs. Product quality is more than I imagined ... Very happy and satisfied ... I recommend.
3|Minimal instructions are included. Had to go to site to find out how to install. I am not very computer savy, so it might be fine for someone who is more computer literate.
5|I decided after a recent hard drive crash that the online backup service I was using was good but not great. It looks to be much easier to backup on the Seagate, though I should probably do both for the most safety. The small size is great, it is super easy to use and if needed easy to carry it around.
5|I can believe how many thousands of photos I have uploaded for hours and still barely shows any space used!
5|I use 2 of these to backup an iMAC with Time Machine and they work great. I rotate the 2 drives monthly and keep off site.
5|Works great, was easy to set up, love the social media & mobile phone backup utility as well. Also is small & discreet.
5|This product has been stellar. It is surprisingly slim and has 2TB of storage. Enough for all my photos and videos. I wanted portability combined with reliability and I found it.
5|really compact, and good. Plug n play makes it very easy. Its not that heavy either. Worth the money for sure.
5|Seagate has always made a good Product and the improvement over the years have been great. This unit is prefect for me as it is compack small and large storage for photo's and files.
5|I've been looking out for a larger hard drive ever since my WD 2 TB My Passport's ran out of space... I knew that there would eventually be a drive for my requirements and this drive fits the bill perfectly. (This drive is not a single 4 TB drive, it is really two 'slim' 2 TB drives placed in a RAID 0 array) Benefits: - No need for a bulky power cord - 22mm thick, not the thinnest external drive but it looks nice - Fast, i mean very fast, the RAID 0 array works wonders for it - Enough space for the average enthusiast (I just bought 3) Negatives: - RAID 0 means the data is striped, for the layman that means that the data is split between two drives so the drive spends half the time needed to write or read compared to a single drive. Now while that may seem great the downside is that if one drive fails then all the data is lost. - Power draw, the device needs a lot of power so there is the chance that one port won't support it, luckily the packaging has a normal USB 3.0 cord and an additional USB 3.0 Y-splitter. All in all, an excellent investment for those who need a portable drive with lots of space. P.S. I am not absolutely sure on how this drive will last, especially with the dual drive aspect, but if it does fail I'll be sure to update this review.
1|I don't know what is wrong with the one I received, It crashed after I did my first back up on my Time machine. When I use disk utiltity on Mac it appears and disappears. I was very much concerned to return this without earsing as I was not able to read the disk, but Amazon promissed me that they are responsible for any misuse of data. So I have returned to this product. I can rate 5 * for customer service but for product no choice other than what I gave.
4|The Seagate Backup Plus 2 TB Silver was purchased recently because the Seagate Backup Plus 2TB Red that we purchased a few years ago for our iMac (27", LED, WIDESCREEN) was full. After being told by Seagate support that the new Plus 2TB Silver would not pick up from where the Red became full, but would instead go back to the beginning, I requested instructions on how to proceed. I have never received a response. Bottom Line: This Seagate Backup Plus 2TB Silver is of no use to us and Seagate has failed to respond to our request for guidance.
2|Bought this for my imac OS 10.8+ for backing up data & files. Plugged it in, downloaded the driver, and then nothing. No option to back-up/write files/drag & drop anything onto this hard drive. Saw that the dashboard only had an option to save social media. Wrote customer service about it and this is what they told me: "The PC Backup/Protect feature is only available on the Windows version of Seagate Dashboard. For Mac computers, Seagate recommends that you back up your system using Apple Time Machine. If the Mac computer is the only machine you are going to use this external on, then you can follow these few simple steps to start Time Machine. 1. Select Apple menu 2. System Preferences 3. Click Time Machine 4. Click Select Disk. 5. Your external drive should appear in the list. Select the disk and click Use Disk. The drive will need to be reformated to Mac only use, so if it does as you to reformat it go ahead. If you are wanting to use this drive as a go-between Mac and PC computers, you will not be able to use Time Machine. I would return the drive and exchange it for a Backup Plus Slim Portable Drive for Mac. This is the Mac based version of the drive that allows you to use the drive with Time Machine and still be able to use the drive on Windows PCs. " Returning this promptly and would have given it just 1 star for convenient size & color option, but bumping it up to 2 stars because manufacturer got back to me within 24hours.
5|I have a 500 g version of this but I wanted another one so I ordered the terabyte version. Works perfectly and make a great little drive to use for backups or for transporting large data sets. it will take me a long time to fill this one up and it is small and light enough to toss in the laptop bag when I travel. Also, it works on USB 3 so is very fast when hooked to the right port.
1|all my techie family have tried, I've spent hours looking for answers. We managed to update once without the software. Never again in two months. Really find another product. It's not worth the money even if their drive is well made what will you do drag and drop your whole computers contents into the hard drive? Because that is the only choice we have been given here. WORST software I've ever seen. Sad.
2|I've got a few of these types of Seagate 500 GB portable drives, and they've worked well for me over the years. Mine are older and thicker, and two of them have crapped out over time, but that's the nature of hard drives - they don't last forever. The longer they last though, the better, and that will be the final test of how many stars this should get. This is a newer version than the ones I've bought in the past, and it's a lot slimmer and sleeker, I must say. I like the new style of it. I got it for my sister for her birthday. I've bought them and given them to my other sister and my daughter as well, and they love them. They're great for transporting, copying, transferring or just backing up large files or a lot of files between machines. One thing that's become a bit of an annoyance, and a possible future problem: The proprietary cable connection it uses on the drive side of it. My old ones simply used a mini-USB on that side. Not this one though. It uses its own uncommon connection, so if / when it ever has a problem or gets lost, we'll have to go looking for the special cable to replace, and it will be unusable until we find and purchase it. That was an engineering change from their older version of the drives that didn't need to be made, and shouldn't have. Update - 01/14/2015: So, I bought another one of these for myself for Christmas after giving my daughter my last one, leaving me with none. I mentioned above that I've bought several of these over the years, of various models and sizes, all variations of the same thing from Seagate. 3 died a little more than a year of use. 3 more have lasted 3 to 4 years each. Another has lasted now for almost a year so far. The latest one that I bought for myself was a 2TB model, and lasted less than a month. It died yesterday with a clicking sound and no way to access the drive or its files at all anymore, which was very disappointing. I took advantage of Amazon's Return options to have them send me a replacement, which was a seriously no-fuss thing to do, so a big thanks to Amazon for that. It will be here in a couple of days, and the countdown to its death will begin again. So far, out of the 8 drives I've bought over the years, half of them died prematurely; 3 died after a little more than a year, and 1 died after less than a month. Altogether, not a very good or dependable record for them, from my point of view. I'm still also very displeased about the proprietary cable they're now using with them. It's simple USB 3.0, and no need for the proprietary end that fits into the drive. Any normal USB cable with a mini USB end for the drive side should work, just like they used to on their previous models. I'll certainly update again then next time one of the remaining working drives fails, to give info on how long it lasted. In the meantime, I certainly advise to NEVER put anything on it that's not a backup you have other copies of, because from my experiences with them over the past several years, everything on it will be gone in an instant, with no warning whatsoever.
5|Makes my other 1T portable drives look huge!! Super flat/skinny. It's fast, moved items into it w/no problem. I'll take Seagate over WD everyday. '0' crashes, '0' worries! Shipper sent it super fast - much appreciated!
1|I was under the impression I could connect straight to my tablet to backup. I already own a backup for my pc so this is worthless to me.
5|There is more than enough room for all your personal files and to back up your system. It is easy to set up and operates effortlessly.
1|I purchased this product and followed the directions provided (very few). The dashboard is a joke and will not tell me if there is an error or why the files will not back up. When I check the log it tells me the backup was successful even though 0 files have been backed up. Have not been successful on the website self help section or the support center. Very frustrating.
5|I have backed up 3 laptops on this thing & have tons of room left over! It's very user friendly.., LOVE IT!
5|Works well and it is very handy to use. I take it on the road with me.
5|Got it to use as extra drive to a new computer, this is where we "auto backup" to. Saves space on hard drive. Works well for this and was easy to set up(I'm not computer savy).
1|This hard drive corrupts .mov formats. I confirmed this via many others have expressed the identical problem on boards all over the internet. I have it formatted NTFS and it is a "no go". I edit in FCPX and FCP7 and Adobe CS6. This drive corrupted every file. It also corrupts 5DmkII and 5DmkIII original files too. Worthless for editors.
5|Small, Sleek and most importantly its fast. I was surprised how small the drive was for being 2 TB worth of drive space. It's fast and efficient and I reccomend to anyone interested in buying it. I give five star rating because it its all that you imagine and more.
5|I bought a 1TB Seagate Go Flex external hard drive two years ago, it was made of plastic and very thick. This one is way better, slim and solid.
5|A lot of space that's portable for all your files. This was priced right and works great. Easily configured. Buy, buy, buy.
5|This is the best portable external drive I've ever owned. I have 5 external hard drive : Toshiba Mini station 3.0 and WD. This is the lightest and smallest. The backup system might not be the best, but it is good enough. Mobile backup still got a lot of space to improve but the design is simple and nice. This hard drive perfectly fit in the pocket in my bag. It is as portable as phone
4|Great hard drive! Plenty of room for storing or backing up songs, pictures and important documents. I have lost important files before. This hard drive will ensure I don't lose any in the future.
5|The slimmer, cuter, love the design. As it is external portable hard drive for more space on you computer, I just love how it is skinnier than iPhone. It's very light weighted, love the color, it is absolutely fabulous. Just remember, if you are using mac and want to use this hard drive on windows too, you need to format the entire hard drive to FAT format. Therefore, you want to format the hard drive before you put anything in the space because formatting will completely erase everything in there. If you format it with FAT, it is the format type which allows hard drive to be used on both Mac and Windows. How to do it? Search on google. I highly recommend this product since it is a good deal of price and the good hard drive itself with the wonderful design.
5|This hard drive is reasonably priced when compared to other external hard drives on Amazon. Be sure to click through the different hard drive sizes and color options because the time of writing this review the red 1TB hard drive was four dollars more than the black. So with color doesn't matter to you there is some good savings to be had. This is an "portable" hard drive meaning all it needs is a USB plug into your computer to transfer the data and get power from. That means you don't have to plug in an AC adapter to your wall socket. I prefer these hard drives over the kind that require an AC adapter every time. This will also work with USB 2.0 adapters the speeds for 2.0 transfers are still fast enough for most users at about a gigabyte of data every 30 to 40 seconds. Before jumping in to a hard drive purchase be sure to buy the biggest hard drive you can afford as with everything nowadays going digital you will want/need that space in the future. This hard drive is Mac compatible just follow the steps below to format the hard drive for your Mac. If you're a Mac user setting up or erasing this drive up with your computer is super easy follow these steps. 1. Plug in the the drive 2. Open up disk utility found in your applications folder inside the utilities folder 3. Next select the newly plugged in a drive and on the right-hand side you should see partition click on that. 4. Then inside that screen on the partition layout drop-down choose how many partitions you'd like to set up. I generally go with one partition and just use folders to organize my files. 5. Then on the right-hand side you can name the partitions and select the format. If you are transferring video files I highly recommend you choose Mac OS Extended (If you want to use it with Time Machine this is the choice you need to make) as it can handle files over 4GB. Sometimes it's good to make two partitions and one using "MS-DOS fat" or "ExFat" if you might be transferring files to and from a Windows machine. The reason is Windows machines and Macs can read and write to the "MS-DOS fat" format but your files will need to be under 4 GB each as that's the maximum file size it can handle.*** 6. Then click apply and your Mac will create all the partitions you wanted and you're good to go. *** The ExFat format is new to Mac OSX 10.9 Mavericks and doesn't have a 4gb file size limit the "MS-DOS fat" or Fat32 does but not all devices like cameras & digital devices can't read or write to it. I hope this helps and be sure to always have backups of your important data. Take it from somebody was lost a lot of data to hard drive failures always backup and Time Machine is so transparent if you're using a Mac you should be using Time Machine.
2|I'm not sure if I'm the dumb user here but when I ordered this item it said it was compatible with MAC computers. That is the specific reason why I bought the item. However, the item did not work with my MAC. I reached out to some tech people and they told me it had to be partitioned to work with the MAC. They were going to charge me to do this. I'm not looking to spend more money I just need to back up my hard drive. I'm am debating sending this back. They should tell you before hand that it does not work out of the box with MAC. NOT VERY HAPPY HERE !!!
5|I love this portable hard drive, It was factory fresh and has provided me with an easy way to backup my systems on two computers. I don't like using cloud technology, I'd rather have my data stored on a hard drive that I can transfer from one computer to another without using cloud technology. It is small and has all my info on a drive that is secure and small and is not accessible from anywhere else but my computer. I can see this drive becoming smaller in the future. I am looking forward to when it does. Thank you Seagate for keeping up with technology.
5|Any intelligent fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent. It takes a touch of genius and a lot of courage to move in the opposite direction.
5|When my MyPassport WesternDigital portable hard drive broke, this was a great replacement. New technology that uses USB 3.0 and backwards compatible with usb technology made this extremely easy to use and very very fast to transfer data. The device is sturdy and easy to transport, which makes it very convenient to store data on as backup, or just to have on the go to always have important files on hand.
5|The Seagate plus slim 1TB is Great!!!! It was so easy to install and works great and easily used to transfer data from one unit to another as well as take it with you anywhere!!! I Love It!!!!!
3|The memory itself is fine so far, i got it few days ago. The problem is with the cable, it doesn't fit in my laptop securely. It is kind of loose and keeps moving which causes the memory to reconnect to my laptop every time I move the Seagate memory.
5|I have been researching the availability of this drive since it was advertised several months ago. I just received the drive from Amazon a few days ago, cloned it to my MBP and replaced my 1.5TB Toshiba which I installed about a year ago. So far the drive seems very fast with the internal SATA connection. To remove the drive you'll have to be patient and slowly pry the edges of the case open using a small utility knife to open an edge and then use a plastic credit card or small screw driver and work your way around the edges. After removing the top the drive and be easily pried out of the case starting at the opposite end of the USB connector. You'll have to remove the foil wrapping with is really stuck to the drive...be patient and work slowly. The USB connector is somewhat hard to remove. Simply use a small utility knife or screw driver to pry between the connector and the drive to start separating the connector from the drive and then pull it off. Voila, a 9.5mm drive. Be advised for Mac users you'll have to use Disk Utility to repartition the drive and select 1 partition and click on options and select GUID partition scheme. Also select Mac OS Extended Journaled from the topdown menu and type in a name for the drive. I used CCC but the restore function in Disk Utility works fine for cloning the new drive to you laptop.
2|I have a Mac OS X with the VM Ware Windows loaded on it. This was suppose to work but it was nothing but a headache and I looked up on Seagate and others with a Mac with Mavericks also had issues, so if you have a Mac buy the one for Mac only. We bought one for our iMac and it great! So if you want this just make sure you get the Seagate Backup Plus for Mac, which is what I am going to get instead.
5|I had a 1.5TB HDD in it, like I do my ps3. But considering ps4 games are generally much larger than ps3 games I will probably be filling this up towards the end of it's life. With ps3 and ps+ and all my other digital games I've bought I still have 200GB left on a 1.5TB HDD. This 2TB HDD shows 1766GB usable space. I doubt I'll fill this up completely because there probably won't be many HD remakes on the ps4 like there was the ps3. But I'd rather not find out and be short on space, upgrade this now while I only have a few games to reinstall. For installation though you'll need to google ps4 software update and download the larger of the two firmware updates. I was trying to use a regular firmware update from sony but I kept getting errors. Apparently you need the file that includes the OS initialization file, found here: [...]
5|I love this external HDD and am so pleased that I purchased it! It is lightweight and thin, and fits just fine in the sleeve I have for my Surface Pro 2. Tons of space and fast, easy upload speeds. I bought the 2 year warranty with it for about $6 and am happy to have some support if something goes electrically or mechanically wrong!
5|I had purchased an external hard drive that overheated and had to be returned. I bought this Seagate Backup Plus instead. It comes with installation instruction on the drive so you can get all the software for it installed after you plug it in. I like that I can format it for my Mac and Pc and switch between the two. It doesn't randomly disconnect, overheat (had it plugged in for hours while playing a game downloaded on to it), or cause me any unnecessary trouble. I highly recommend this hard drive!
5|Easy to use and very lightweight. Priced right for the amount of storage. We were able to plug and backup (once we found the Windows backup app).
5|5 star rating based on quality of product, shipping was on time and performance is remarkable thus far. I didn't need much storage so I went with the smaller 500 GB. The machining quality is awesome, the brushed aluminum on blacks looks great and is very slim to travel with.
5|i use it as storage instead of back up and this product is a good portable hard drive recomend to anyone who needs or wants one terrabyte
5|I got this just for the M9T hard drive which is inside the 2TB slim model. This is the only 9.5mm 2TB hard drive on the market right now, which seems to only be found in the external drive product. Anyway I used a slim screw driver to pry the edges a bit and then once I got a small flat screwdriver in I used the main shaft of the screw driver and rotated it around the edge to pop the top off. The drive needed to be wiggled a bit upside down to get it out. I was even able to take the adapter off and put it on a 340gb slim hard drive I had and put it back together and the smaller hard drive now works fine with the external casing reused. The 2TB hard drive went inside a laptop.
5|I run Windows 7 with a Plextor 256 GB M5 Pro and a 1 TB WD Caviar 1 SATA for my D: drive where I keep all my data. I have always backed up my photos to CD's (later DVD's) but that has become rather clumsy and I wanted to protect them so I got the Seagate 1TB. The drive formatted flawlessly - just run the Install utility from the drive. However, I ran the Backup program and, while it worked fine, it created a backup I cannot access or see unless I run a full Recover. It also does not offer an option to incrementally backup. There may be a way of viewing the backup files, but it is not offered as an option that I can find and they do not show in Windows explorer (yes, I have View Hidden Files checked.) So I simply ran the Install utility again, which effectively re-formatted the drive and then I used a 3rd party backup utility. I happen to like the freeware Leo Backup program, but I imagine any good utility would do. Or you can also simply drag-and-drop. Speed? Well, my computer is about 4 years old so it has USB 2.0. Took about an hour to backup 300 GB.
4|I received it in perfect shape with plenty of instructions. I is easy to setup and I think it will work great. Workmanship is great has not problem backing up everything on computer reasonably fast. Recommend.
5|Great backup drive! Quick delivery of the product ensured my data was backed up in the event of my MAC having a system failure. Thanks!
5|The second one of these I've bought. Both have been reliable and easy to use on either a Mac or PC. So far, there have been no issues.
2|This product indicates the ability to backup your mobile devices. It does NOT have this capability. When I contacted Seagate, they indicated that the software to back up mobile devices is not yet available and should be available soon. I brought the product based on the advertised ability to use with mobile device. Product should not be advertised as such if the software is not yet available!
5|PRO : This stored everything my old Western Digital did, but backed up my laptop in a fraction of the time. The software is easy to install. It's totally quiet and performs backups as you want them, and/or on command. Great for the price! CON: The only minor problem I saw was in the horizontal position, it may be hard to see the running light was on.
5|I put it on automatic backup and so far I am happy with it. The instructions came in an email after I registered the product online. They were easy to follow and I can highly recommend it.
5|This drive both performs and looks great. I have the 2TB version, and am impressed on how small the drive is for 2TB of capacity. The style and looks of it are great, and the USB 3.0 speeds are certainly impressive. Even the LED indicator light is a very stylish, glowing sliver, rather than an annoying bright flashing LED which is obtrusive to the eye. No external power is needed, all power is supplied via USB, so just one small cable is all that is needed. The Seagate software that comes with it can be useful for basic backups if that is what you are purchasing the drive for. Any advanced backup functions, you will want to get better software, but the fact that its included with the drive is a bonus. For me, I just deleted the software and am using it to store data on the go. The software does delete fully from the drive and doesn't re-install itself from firmware as some annoying drives do in order to force you to use their software. Once deleted from the Seagate drive, you can use every bit for your own storage needs. I have had no issues with connectivity or drive errors. The build of it is high quality and the drive itself is sturdy and solid. The metallic faceplate is very stylish and looks great... just beware because aluminum scratches or dents easily. Overall, a great drive for a great price. I'm happy that I went with Seagate and the performance and style of the drive can't be beat.
2|I bought lots of Seagate Backup External hard Drives. It said online this model is an updated version which should be better. It looks better for sure, 'coz it's much thinner. However, my computer (I tried both laptop and desk top, and all the computers in school computer lab) cannot read it after only three times connecting to my laptop.
5|I had to get an external hard drive for my film class but knew I'd be using it after the class too so decided on this. The price is perfect for 1 tb, it's even cheaper than some drives that have less storage. When it arrived I wasn't expecting it to be some small but I quite like the size. I didn't want to have to lug around some uneccessarily massive hard drive for no reason. I have no doubts that I will be buying another in the future.
5|It does the job as an external hard drive, but I chose to buy this for the drive. The drive inside the enclosure is the SATA M9T 2TB hard drive, which as of February 2014, has not been officially released yet. I was able to swap out my hard drive in my macbook pro for this one in just a few minutes. I booted into recovery and using time machine, got everything back on my computer, just how it was before the upgrade. I couldn't believe how easy this was. So far, no complaints, ironically I am finding my computer running faster than my old 7200RPM drive. I highly recommend this drive for those that need lots of internal storage. One other thing: Seagate packaged this product really well, smallest box I have ever seen for an external hard drive, nicely packed.
5|Got to backup photos while travelling from a Macbook. Formatted on the Mac for both Mac & PC , but not readable when plugged into a PC. Quiet, so far no problems.
5|Works great with my MacBook Pro. Make sure you purchase a hard drive case to carry it in. I keep mine in my backpack and am afraid that might be a tad to easy to break.
5|++++++++++++++++Updated 02/11/2014 ++++++++++++++++ Seagate got back to me almost immediately and solved this issue of backing up my email. Seems the "Appdata" folder was hidden....so the backup could not get to those files... here is a copy of my response to Seagate support Thanks for your response and I stand corrected.... You are absolutely correct. The problem was that the top level AppData folder was hidden, but not any folder under it ......Once I changed the property of that folder to unhidden, I was able to drill down and see that Dashboard did "check" each of the subfolders..... The method I used was as follows: Home > Protect >Edit >Select Files...where you can see the file structure.....and I had to look in Local > Microsoft >Window Live Mail where all the email files where located in separate folders like inbox, send, draft, etc. all where checked...than I simply ran a another backup.... I will be happy to correct my rating and note a 5 star rating....and very happy you found and communicated the solution so thoroughly and accurately -- and Quickly. I have to and will take back all the negative things I reported... Thank You very much ===============================================Original Comment================================================== The hardware is fine and a good value. But the built-in software called the Dashboard has some serious flaws. First the in-the-box setup literature shows the Dashboard as Version 3.0, yet what gets installed in version 2.2.42. Version 3.0 is delayed at least another month, said the Seagate rep I spoke with. V 3.0 is the one that would do the Mobile backups too, so this feature is not in V 2.2.42 - Strike one (Therefore the product description is incorrect, since it does not do Mobile B/U thru the interface-YET). 2.) E-mails are NOT backed-up. This s/w doesn't support your client e-mail database(s) -- that's crazy. Perhaps V3.0 will...I certainly hope so. Dashboard gives you the navigation tool (select files - to be backed-up), but it doesn't allow you to drill down to the file structure where your email data is located (contacts, emails, calendar, etc). For example, I want to B/U my Windows Live Mail structure -- yes I know I can export this stuff, but what I want is for Dashboard to allow navigation to these folders(and select them for B/U)....they are not hidden, but Dashboard won't let you go there to select them...In this case, the navigation would be something like this " C;>Users>name>APPDATA>local>Microsoft>Windows Live Mail" I don't understand why Dashboard is so restrictive -- sure the default B/U folders are good, but APPDATA items are inaccessible....not only for WLM, but for any MS appdata program files/data. I sure hope Version 3.00 will fix this shortcoming. I'm happy I have Carbonite B/U running that does backup all MS(and other) program data files. IMHO, this really needs to be addressed and fixed. There really should be no reason that Seagate restricts what gets backup - for experts, this kind of advance function(visibility to the entire computer files structure) is needed and for novice, email b/u should be a minimum requirement(for those with client based email configurations).
4|I like it! It's worth it! The product reached on time. Works at good pace and light and compact device.
4|Super fast shipping from Amazon Prime: Ordered at 10AM in the morning and received it 1PM the next day. Thanks Amazon+USPS sunday shipping. For the drive itself: It's fast enough for everyday use with average about 80-100MB/sec ( with the exception for a folder with multiple small files when the speed drops to 30MB/sec) I try to play some League of legends on it and the game loads fast. Make sure you plug it into a USB3 port, otherwise, it's just as slow as a USB stick.
5|fsutil fsinfo ntfsinfo h: returned Bytes Per Sector : 512. This is great for those of us using slightly dated backup software, etc. Just like the non slim version.
5|this is my second purchase of a seagate backup device and it never fails the plus slim is so light and the perfect size couldn't ask for a better hard drive
4|I like it better than the WD Passport. It's much more slim sleek and quiet spinning drive. The colors are also nice.
2|This isn't a criticism of the drive. I actually have not been able to use it as advertised. I bought this drive for my wife specifically for the mobile compatibility via an app. After installing the drive and the dashboard software we could not find the app at the app store. I finally checked the Seagate forums and discovered it is not available for android either. I called Seagate and was told the app has not been released and should be out by the end of the month (Feb 2014) but there is no set release date. The app function is one of the main features advertised. Mobile device backup is on the packaging twice. The website features this, and it doesn't exist. I am returning my drive and may try again when there is an app. Drives are not going up in price and I don't want to sit on mine for a month or more without being able to use it as advertised. In the meantime, if something else comes along, I'll get that.
5|Yes, this is a hard to find 2TB 2.5 inch drive that is standard size for 2.5 inch laptop drives. Previously, the drives > 1TB capacity that were 2.5 inch drives were extra tall and would not fit well into laptops or Mac Mini. For a Mac Mini HD upgrade, just hook this up via USB and use SuperDuper to clone the drive. You will need to reformat the Hard Drive first to an appropriate Mac format that is bootable (instructions can be found by Googling the topic). I started the cloning process before I went to bed. It was done by morning. Not sure how long it took (since I was sleeping), but my 1TB drive was nearly full. Once you have cloned your current Mac Mini drive, pry the silver lid off of this USB drive and remove the drive. It may take a bit of effort to get the silver lid off because it's a snug fit and held on with sticky tape underneath. Just take your time and work your way around the edges prying and lifting with a very fine screw driver or other similar tool. Once you have the hard drive removed, just pull the USB interface board out of the SATA connector on the drive. From there, this becomes a standard Mac Mini hard drive replacement process. Go to Youtube and search on Mac Mini hard drive upgrade (or similar search terms) and you should bump into a very good video walk through. Follow the YouTube video instructions (which are straightforward) and you should have no problems.
3|i like all the physical things about it except that it seems to disconnect randomly on occasion. when i watch TV shows off of the drive, i can rarely make it through an episode. i also use this to work on large map files and when it disconnects it completely ruins the task at hand because i am working from the drive itself. i would like to believe that it is just a poor cable but there isnt a way to tell for sure.
4|Very good backup drive. However the seller misrepresented the item. I own a PC not a MAC. It was not differentiated so I assumed that I ordered it for a PC. It arrived as the mac version. It was NOT easily correctible. I had to call Seagate and a tech had to reformat the drive for a PC and I lost some of the functionality that comes with a PC drive. It should have been labelled correctly as It was a time consuming correction. Thankfully Seagate came through.
5|I ordered one of these in the hope that it would contain the long anticipated 2TB 2.5" 9.5mm Samsung M9T hard disk. I'm happy to report that it does and that said drive has a standard SATA interface. My MacBook Pro is now sitting pretty with 2TB of internal storage. Happy Days!
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is amazingly small. It can be stored away in a drawer and taken out when needed, or it has such a small footprint, it can be left on your desk. Easy to set up and use.
1|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB USB 3.0 Portable External Hard Drive with Mobile Device Backup (Black) STDR1000100 The hard drive intially seemed to be working ok and the data transfer speeds were decent as well. Well i then disconnected the drive for a while and then tried reconnecting the drive a few hrs later and BAM it isnt recognized anymore. Neither my desktop or laptop seemed to read/detect the drive ,all I could hear was a beep sound and the light on the drive just kept constantly blinking .So I then tried looking up online regarding this issue to check if these drives ever have this kind of issue and also was curious if Seagate had a work-around of sorts to fix the issue ,if not at least a way to recover the data already on the failed drive and well it seems like its a pretty common issue with the seagate drives which usually renders the drive almost useless. (mind-boggling how these drives randomly manage to develop this fatal flaw). Eitherway I bought this through Amazon and thus could return the item hassle free for a full refund though i still had NO WAY to either erase the data that was already on the failed disk let alone recover it.( fortunately apart from a virtual machine created by vmware i didnt have any personal data or files on it). A disk of the size 1TB failing in less than a day is ridiculous since the only way of protecting/removing the data already on the failed disk would be to destroy the disk.
5|I am an IT consultant and And I do reviews on electronics all the time so when I buy something for myself I do lots of research and I am very picky. in this hard drive turned out to be awesome. I would like a little more storage space but I wanted to keep the price down. super then as a beautiful brushed aluminum top on it. 3.0 had svery fast download. I can't think of anything negative things to say about it except that I wish It had a little more storage space.
1|Crashed after a month. Lost a bunch of family photos. Seagate did replace, but with a remanufactured unit. I will not store any of my data on their unreliable junk!
5|My old hard drive does not work , and need a new one for important documents. This one is slim and fast, good beyond my imagination!
5|this product backed up soo beatifully on my computer it was the the best thing I purchased, my computer runs better than ever..
5|Love this hard drive, I own many slim externals, and while they all hold a special place in my heart for being sleek, some of them have recently begun having connection problems, usually due to the cord connector located on the drive. With USB 3.0, I feel that the connection is more solid now than the 2.0 counterparts, and the seagate is fast, connection is sturdy, the light on it that shows it is being accessed is not overly bright and annoying, but just right, and it just has been a pleasure to own this drive so far. Speeds are fast, no connection problems with my computer, everything has been working great, have had the drive for about 4 months now.
4|I bought this to use with final Cut Pro, I had to mac format the disc and set a partition but no big deal.
2|I needed a back up system for my older computer but this backup does not work. It is not recoginized by my computer and I have tried everything to get it to work. I am sure it is fine on the newer computers, my is about 8 years old with Windows XP.
3|Since "the most helpful critical review" covers usage from Windows 8, this review will be tested with MacOS X Mavericks on a 2013 macbook air. Saves me time from explaining both pc and mac testing. USB3.0 Read/write benchmarks are near the end. Pros: -Slim and small, the words "portable hdd" in its title is not taken lightly. Almost as thin as an iPhone5, the pictures might make it seem larger than actual size. -USB 3.0 -Really really nice anodized aluminum top case housing. Cons: -Software -Only 500gb(for $10-20 more you can get the 1TB version. But do you really need 1TB for a portable? I didn't, I have backup servers that don't move for that job, making things portable is more likely to have physical disk damage/failure. -Not GoFlex compatible. So no thunderbolt adaptor here :( -SOFTWARE- (I DO NOT RECOMMEND) FEATURES: MacOS lacks the "protect" feature because Apple has its Time Machine feature. This leaves us with 2 MAIN FEATURES: SAVE & SHARE - only good if you use flicker/Facebook/youtube/twitter, allows quick download backup from all. Those are the only social media sites supported. This is a let down because under the protect feature for windows apparently theres a NERO Cloud 1-year offer(not a big deal anyways). But the offer is non-existent in any of the mac options available. Honestly, Software its quite useless unless you really want to re-download all you photos from flicker and Facebook. There's also a pretty useless disk check, to see if your hard drive is working healthily & i'm pretty sure you'll know if your disk is not working. THE ONLY THING I CAN RECOMMEND WITH THE SOFTWARE IS TO NOT INSTALL IT because UNINSTALLING is a hassle. There is no uninstallation available. I had to search for the files that were created and manually delete them. Prepare for the scavenger hunt, you have to search through system files & hidden files. -BENCHMARK- Blackmagic Disk Speed Test I partitioned the HD into two separate formats using the GUID partition map. 1st partition is Apple (journaled) format 2nd exFat format(windows/mac compatible). Wrtie & Read (Average speeds in transfers of 1,2,3,4,5GB stress levels) Apple format: Write:~104.3 Read:~105.76 Mb/s exFat format: Write:~54.66 Read:~57.86 Mb/s Conclusion: Obviously the speeds are not what we expect to see for USB 3.0. Comparatively external HDDs on true USB3.0 we could be seeing speeds up to the 124-150Mb/s. On SSDs and extreme flash drives the speeds are around double that - of course, you're sacrificing mass storage to price ratio. Would this information stop you? No, and it shouldn't!! Why? Because Real-Life situations: i transferred a folder with miscellaneous mp4 movies in 720p that added up to 7gigs. The Results: in apple format it took a little more or less than 30 secs and exFat it was around a minute. expect the same timings for transfer rates out of the hard drive since read/write speeds are similar. Even if you are transferring files up to 16gbs it would not take that long. This is still a suitable drive to use as a complete backup drive. The speeds are still faster than USB2.0 by a great amount, think 30Mb/s speeds. And this sure beats uploading/downloading with an online cloud. I took one star off because of useless software(a benchmark software would have been more useful). The other star i deducted because $20 could get you double the capacity. However, that too is subjective if you need that or not. So no one should have buyer's remorse. Besides, by the time you need more capacity well... technology will be something else.
5|Highly recommend. I am not very computer savvy, I'm over 60 and mostly lost when it comes to technology. I wanted an external hard drive to backup my files, documents, photos, etc. I was using a memory stick but it filled up fast (plus it's so small I thought I'd loose it). I bought this portable hard drive recently and it's been working great! It's very small but has a lot of storage space. The software allows me to set how often I want it to automatically back up my hard drive. It allows me to tell it what to back up (I don't have audio or movies on my laptop so took that off settings). The software for adjusting all the settings is very easy to understand (I think it's called intuitive). It is quiet and does not get warm to the touch. I bought a hard case to carry it in and I can actually set the hard drive in the case (don't zip it up) and leave it like that while the drive is plugged into a USB port on my laptop.
5|Just perfect. It suits like expected. Very light and fast. Much convinient to bring it with me everywhere. Nice deal.
5|How it looks: The silver version of this drive has a brushed aluminum front with rough etched Seagate logo, rest of the drive case is plastic. It is the same silver as a macbook but since it is brushed instead of powder coated it catches a lot more light. Not unattractive. Thankfully the LED light is white and pulses rather than WD's annoying blue led flicker, the thin white light goes off when not used for awhile. Sizing: Compared to an iPhone 5 the Seagate Slim USB3 500GB drive is a little bit thicker (~2-3mm), shorter length wise (~1cm) and wider width wise (~2cm). Speed: This drive uses a standard blue USB 3 cable (included) that is backwards compatible to USB2 meaning that you can plug it into any Mac or PC. Thunderbolt drives are the fastest, but this drive isn't compatible with Seagate's Thunderbolt adapter. USB 3 is fast, but if you connect it to a Mac that doesn't have USB 3 support it will run at the very slow USB 2 speed (ie long file copy times). Unlike PCs which use a blue USB port to indicate USB 3 compatibility a Mac doesn't easily tell you if it is USB 3 or USB 2. You'll have to look up your model specs by going to the Apple icon, choosing about this Mac, more info and then googling your model number for details (surprising this isn't made easier, but any Mac model made earlier than mid 2012 probably doesn't have USB 3 support). It shows up in the Mac finder as "Seagate Slim Drive" with an Orange USB icon drive. It contains a Mac and Windows installer and 400mb of videos (why they couldn't ship a single higher quality MPEG4 with multiple audio tracks is beyond me). The list of files on the drive are at the bottom of this review. Drive is formatted NTFS and has no support for SMART drive sensors or hardware encryption. If you want to optimize it for a Mac only environment or plan on using Time Machine for backups you will need to launch Disk Utility on your Mac to erase the drive. I chose Mac OS extended (Journaled, Encrypted) because I plan on using it to backup my MacBook Air via Time Machine and don't want anyone finding my drive to be able to access the contents (uses software encryption which is slower than WD's version). It should just take a minute to format. If you get the error message: Disk Encryption. Disk Erase failed with the error: Couldn’t unmount disk, then you should make sure to dismount the disk image (drag drive to trash) and try again. You can't be accessing the drive while trying to format it. If you go into Time Machine's preferences you can now add the Seagate drive as a replacement or as an addition. I use my Airport Time Capsule at home and wanted to add this drive as a backup at work so I added both. In the time it has taken me to write this review Time Machine has backed up 7GB of the 72GB needed. Wishing Seagate had a slim thunderbolt drive, but Apple is already onto thunderbolt 2 so I'm feeling a bit behind on this USB 2 only Mid 2011 MacBook Air! Files on the drive are: Seagate Dashboard Installer.dmg Seagate Dashboard Installer.exe SlimIcon.ico Video (folder) en-US (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 fr-FR (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 it-IT (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 ko-KR (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 ru-RU (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 sv-SE (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 zh-CN (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 zh-TW (folder) Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video.mp4 Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4 Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial.mp4
4|Using this little beauty for work, I need it to re-image 70 laptops. Works great with Clonezilla Live and I can save an 50GB image in 15 minutes.
5|FANTASTIC PRODUCT.. SLIM AND LIGHTER THAN THE ONE I ACQUIRED A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO. I TESTED IT AND WORKED AT FAST SPEED. GREAT PRODUCT AT A GREAT PRICE
4|If keeping the size of your portable drives to a minimum is important to you, then this is drive for you. I have the 500GB and looking forward to buying 1TB drives, So far I have not had any problems with the drive, though I worry that it might crack since it is so thin. Not had a problem thus far. I purchased the PC formatted drive and then reformatted the drive for my MAC (saved a few $ that way). Strange that they charge a different amount for PC vs Mac drives since the hardware is the same and the only difference is the format of the drive and perhaps one or two utility programs. Overall, I highly recommend this drive unless you have "butter fingers" One word of caution - I had a old 500GB slim and I compared it to the newer 1TB size. The 500GB is noticeably slimmer than the 1TB though both are listed as the same thickness. The Seagate website the thickness of the 500GB as 0.38" and the 1TB/2TB as 0.48". Amazon shows the same thickness for all 3 drives.
3|This little device is nicely packaged (black) and has a lot of space (1TB). It is slower than I expected based on reviews. This is possibly because I am using USB2. Back up time using time machine for 120GB was approximately 2.5 hours. Encryption > 24 hours. For Mac users planning on using time machine do not install the seagate software. I made this mistake and it took an hour to remove the software. The main problem is that .kext file is not from an Apple approved vendor and this creates errors in OSX Mavericks. My advice is just avoid the problem by not installing it. Also you will need to format the drive. The box says it is Mac/PC compatible but all that means for Mac users is that it works after formatting. While I like the packaging a lot mine has some minor faults on the front face plate, which came with fine scratches and three visible silver solder points. This seems a bit ordinary to me and detracts from the overall impression. It does not convey a quality feel, but certainly does not affect the performance or utility of the drive. All-in-all it is a nice little device. The drive is very potable and the USB connector is adequate. Warranty on the website states 2 years on the box 3 years. I'll hold Seagate to the three years. Over all it is ok, but looses a star for the software and speed issues and another star for the cosmetic blemishes (not cool).
5|I bought this HDD to use it as back up for my MBA, good price, so far i used it few times and is ok
5|I bought this as a backup and use it mostly to hold scans of my pilot logbook and digital logbook from Logbook Pro and haven't had one hiccup. It is also very compact which is great if I need it to fit in my pilot bag. The price was what sealed the deal.
4|Some things I have learned: 1) 1T is a LOT OF DATA to store on a sleek drive. Nice. My video guy dumped 15 VHS tapes (2hrs each) to digital .avi on a 1T. I since transferred to .mov format on my laptop PC, using Windows XP. I then stored the converted .movs alongside the original .avi files on the 1T drive. Still oodles of room. 2) Plugged it into my iMAC. Files recogized! I copied .mov files into iMovie. Began saving huge iMovie project files on my iMAC. 3) Tried to move these project files back onto the Seagate 1TB. Nope. The iMAC files not accepted by the 1T drive. "Read Only" from the Seagate. I could not write back from my iMAC Not sure why. 4) Worried that the Seagate Backup Plus does not support my old iMAC. OSX 10.5.8 (Leopard). The box for the Seagate says OSX 10.6 and above. 5) Bought a second Seagate Backup Plus 1TB. Plugged it into the iMAC. Tried to drag & drop files. Again, no go. 6) THEN, went into the iMAC's System Preferences>Time Machine. It asked if I wished to erase all files on this second, new Seagate 1T. (Beware: Don't do this on a Seagate HD you have lots of precious data saved to, obviously!) I selected "yes". Then the icon for the drive flipped color from yellow to green....and began to copy. I turned off Time Machine (did not wish to copy entire drive) and began to drag & drop individual files. PERFECT! As if it is a flash drive to which I am storing enormously large files. Just what I wanted! Dragging files over now via USB. About 2GB/minute. Lesson: The MS-Windows NTFS formatting can be erased (Via Time Machine) and the drive reformatted automatically flawlessly for Mac users. That is, if you don't care about the utility programs (Dashboard?) for auto-saving things.
5|I carry this in my backpack in a small pocket with the small cable as well. Other reviewers have already stated in detail what my title says so see their's for those details. I trust it with transporting priceless childhood videos and photos, and other projects that cannot be lost.
4|Wish it had a regular USB connection on both ends. It has some proprietary connection on the hard drive side so you can't get extra wires or use the wires you carry regularly. Otherwise it is great, light and small.
5|This is a great, tiny, nice-looking hard drive. I'm happy to see another device other than my Galaxy Note 3 with a USB 3.0 port. I mainly bought it to use as an external hard drive for my Wii U and I am happy to report it works well when you use a USB Y adapter (I used the StarTech.com USB2HABMY3, also purchased thru Amazon) with it. It sits nicely on top of the system and I couldn't be happier with my purchase. Very quiet operation.
2|I have purchased many Seagate hard drives and they have been great. This drive I wouldn't recommend. It's very slow. I have an old 5400 rpm connected via USB 2.0 and it is twice as fast as this drive! We have a group of files that we copy to a hard disk for travel. It took 4.5 minutes to copy those files from the local hard drive to the old 5400 rpm drive. With the Seagate Slim 500 it took 9.5 minutes to copy the files via USB 2.0 and 4.5 minutes via USB 3.0. I contacted Seagate and they basically said that is the way the drive works. I had purchased three of these drives and they all perform the same, "slow". Seagate offered to replace it with the same item. If three of them are slow why would the replacement be any different so I declined. I purchased a WD My Passport Ultra 500GB and it performs as I would expect. It isn't as compact as the Seagate Slim drive but it's performance is twice as fast with both USB 2.0 and 3.0 as the Seagate Slim.
5|Fast and reliable drive to save pictures and videos on the go. Lightweight and small. Don't want to miss it again.
5|Small, easy to use and easy to carry with you on trips. Works well with an ultrabook where you want a backup.
1|Stopped working after 6 months - there must be a reason why they give only two years warranty. A drive should have unlimited warranty - especially if it is a large one.
5|It is doing what I needed. It backs up my data on a regular schedule. It is protecting my data.
5|Awesome product, great price! In USB 3.0 (super-speed) mode, you can get 100MB/sec transfer rates. That's about the speed of most internal hard drives these days. This product is reliable, small, and lightweight. It supports ATA security features as well. If you don't have SS USB, it works in USB 2.0 (high speed) mode. I'm not a masochist, so haven't tried it in full speed USB mode, but I wouldn't doubt it would fall back to that mode if that's all that was available. I've tried using this product with a USB 2.0 hub and also with a USB extension cable: it does not work with either. I'm not taking away a star for that, just an observation.
5|Very compact, good value. This is a nice backup solution. While these compact laptop-sized drives tend to be pretty slow (relative to SSDs or high speed hard drives with many spindles), the speed is sufficient for my uses.
5|It serves the purpose I ordered it for exactly. I needed to back up files on my computer and need a lot of storage to do so, segate slim is perfect for this.
2|Great price - The software that comes with it is useless and insulting. Seagate must think you are an idiot and provides no real mechanism to track specifically what you are doing. Had errors on manual copy and had to reboot to get it to work. When copying the source and the destination directories size and file counts are off. Need to manually figure out what was missed. Reviewed website for solutions and that was a joke as well. Basic searches bring up information that is not even close to the request. Two stars because of price.
3|I bought it because of its dimensions and because it had enough storage for me at the right price. The first thing I did when I connected it to my Windows 8 computer was delete the dashboard/bloatware in the drive. BIG MISTAKE. Windows installs its own usb 3.0 driver. It is known to be buggy and intel has not released its own version of the usb 3.0 driver for windows 8. The result of this was that the drive would disconnect and reconnect at random...which led to file corruption. The drive would only be stable if I connected it through a USB 2.0 hub...but I would get slow usb 2.0 speeds. I had to format the drive, lost all my backed up files, installed the bloatware/dashboard software, went into the dashboard's settings...set the autopower off feature to default (which is 5 minutes) and then to NEVER. After doing those things in that order I have not experienced random disconnects.
5|Product works just fine. Shipping was fast. Its a decent tool to use. I would recommend to someone else. Than you so much.
1|I purchased this in June. In October it stopped working. On one laptop running windows 7, it is not recognized. On another laptop running Windows 8, it fails to back up. Money down the drain. I would urge anyone looking to purchase an external hard drive to opt for another brand. UPDATE: I contacted Seagate support and I have the same problem. Returning it to Seagate is such a hassle with packaging that I'm going to contact Amazon. When checking with support I had to review the serial number, etc. and noticed that the drive is made in China. Just another piece of junk.
5|Love this hard drive. It hasn't failed me in two years, feels sturdy, and the brushed metal is really attractive.
5|This is exactly what I was looking for. So easy to use. Love the silver color and the smallness of the product. Easy enuf to carry in my purse all the time.
4|a dead simple external drive, doesnt need its own power line so its just a nice little usb cable. i keep all my movies and such on it. really light and simple. would definitely recommend.
5|I've chosen Seagate because it's a wellknown and good brand. I liked it very much because it's very portable: thin, light and small. Besides, it keeps a great number of data. I recommend it.
5|It is nifty, fits into the pocket on the side of my computer sleeve. The cord is snug - never falling out. It is sturdy. I like the look and feel of it - slick but just a bit rough so you can grasp it quickly without dropping it. I'll be getting another one.
5|Its very slim, also the brushed aluminum looks of very high quality. The drive also transfer data fairly quick. Plus free Seagate cloud storage for one year.
4|I had a bit of problem getting this to work when I first installed it. The Seagate Dashboard program is not that user friendly and the printed instructions that came with the Hard Drive did little to address the functioning of the program. Once I got it installed it worked fine, and about two weeks after installation, my computer crashed. The Slim had most of my files on it, so I was able to transfer operations to another computer without much loss. Thankfully, I had most things backed up on the Slim. It is very compact and just the right size for my purposes.
5|you can carry it in your pocket easy to carry, really slim and light also look very good recommend everybody
1|I was attempting to access this drive and Explorer locked up. I ended up having to shut down my computer which ended up requiring a hard power-off because Explorer would not terminate. When I powered my desktop back up, my USB speakers made a horrible high pitched sound and they had to be powered cycled as well. I finally got my desktop running again with speakers but when I plugged in the Seagate Slim 500GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive it clicked a couple times and powered down. I tried it on my laptop. I tried USB 3.0, USB 2.0 and eventually tore the unit apart to get to the bare drive in hopes that it was just the USB 3 interface that was shot. Nope. The drive is as dead as my chances of doing an RMA through Seagate to get a replacement. There was nothing critical on the drive (all my critical stuff IS backed up) but all the same, dying after three weeks is not a good thing. I really loved the form factor but I've lost $60 and a bunch of files. I think I'll be looking elsewhere for external storage.
5|This works seamlessly with my M AC Mini. It is secure and simple to use and it takes up hardly any space on my desk.
1|Well that didn't last long. Died a month in and it had only sat on my desk the whole time. I'm not interested in a refurb from Seagate that probably has its own issues so that was a total waste of money.
4|Bought this item for specific backup needs, meets my expectations well. Pros: Fast Nice looking Thin Cons: If I really need to complain about something, it would be usb cable length ))
5|Great backup for all my photos, I have years worth of digital photography that are irreplaceable and needed an additional backup if my other external drive would fail. This unit was simple and easy to set up, fast transfer, and very small footprint on a cluttered computer station. Does exactly what I want, easily, quickly and for a good price.
5|This is very nice, sleek, small good loading, love the drag and play, holds everything very well, I would call this a great buy
5|I was using one of the online backup companies for backing up my files. However, for both security and cost reasons decided to buy two of these for backing up my files. I decided to use two of these in case one is lost or corrupted. They connect easily to windows via the enclosed usb (3.0) cable. I didn't use the enclosed dashboard software and basically use my own customized script using Windows robocopy utility. So, I can't comment on the usability of the enclosed software.
4|great drive easy to use provides quick easy backup files for your computer. Every one should buy one to day
5|Yes, the probability of both failing is the probability of one failure squared, assuming they're independent events. Probability and statistics says so, and my experience with the two purchased drives has been satisfying. With such mature technology the reliability should be good. Many years ago I bought a 40GB & a 100GB Seagate drive (for $3 & $1 per GB respectively at Sam's club) which still work and are filled. So couldn't resist at this price - around a dozen pennies per GB !
5|My goal with this product was to establish a rotating disk backup system using two portable hard drives. I wanted to back up to one of the drives (kept at home in a secure location) on a weekly basis and rotate it with another drive (kept in an external secure location) on a monthly basis. For this purpose I bought one silver and one black drive so they'd be easy to distinguish. I was able to get this system working but not without a significant effort. The main issue with the Slim drive for my application was that the software supplied with it (Seagate Dashboard) doesn't support disk rotation. After some futile efforts on my own to get Dashboard to do backups in rotation, I contacted Seagate to see what the problem was. They sent me a product key which allowed me to download Seagate Manager (an older product). I took this response to mean that Dashboard definitely does not support disk rotation. As far as I know you can't get Seagate Manager without asking Seagate Tech Support for it; but they don’t seem to mind providing it. How long this arrangement will last I don’t know. So, if you want to do rotating backups you’ll need Seagate Manager. After you download and install it, be aware that there are two more hurdles. First, you must show Seagate Manager the two (or more) drives you intend to use by plugging them into USB ports at the same time. Read the accompanying help file very carefully on how this is done. The procedure seems a little arcane but it works. Once this step is completed either drive may be plugged into either port. The second hurdle has to do with your computer being able to recognize your drives as distinct drives. Some (older, perhaps) Seagate drives may have this problem. If Seagate Manager doesn't show two distinct "lettered" drives on its main screen when you have them both plugged in, you have this problem. I suggest you either contact Seagate or search the Internet for the solution. It involves renaming one of the drives in the Windows Disk Management window of the Computer Management utility. At this point I’ve been doing rotating backups for about a month and am very satisfied with the job that Seagate Manager and the Slim drives are doing. Once you complete the first backup which may take a while, the regular incremental backups go very quickly. The capacity and size are great for physical storage purposes. So, all in all five thumbs up. P.S. I’m also using Seagate Manager to do rotating backups on another computer using Seagate Flex Go drives. Same comments apply.
5|Very smooth, flawless performance. I have an old Windows XP with a USB 2.0 connection and it worked fine. Includes reasonably useful software for doing one-time and incremental backups. FWIW, the design of the case is quite nice - slim, sleek. Easily stored in a safe deposit box for that ultimate disaster backup.
1|I have a degree in Computer Information Systems and I could not get this drive to work properly. It lasted long enough to register it and then failed. I ran seatools on it and it failed test. Windows7 would not read drive and light on drive just kept blinking. Could not format or fix with seatools. I looked up Seagate support and forums and they know of problem and have not fixed it. They are blaming the OS on the problem. Maybe they should get with the program and make their product work with the OS. Update to review, thank God; I bought through Amazon and promptly got a refund after returning product. They had UPS pick it up and paid for return postage. Here is an update: I ended up getting a WD Passport and it is still working and I have had no problems with it.I bought it in August and now it is November. Update to review it is year 2015 and WD Passport still working. Yes support tried to help me after I wrote bad review. Where were they when I contacted their support directly to get replacement?
1|I received this hard drive as a gift for my birthday, and it arrived completely dead and inoperable. I tried a Windows 7 PC, a Windows 8 PC, and a Mac running Snow Leopard. The device was not recognized on any system and made a clicking noise. So far, Amazon support has been great. After 20 minutes on the phone, they are sending a replacement and even chose a quick shipping method since I am going on vacation soon. In short, Amazon support was excellent, but since the product did not work, I have to leave one star. I'll be sure to update it when the next drive arrives.
5|Just like buying it off the shelf, only less expensive. I would definately buy this again & again & again. (sorry for all the "agains", but Amazon has this stupid word count requirement for their rating system!
5|I haven't used it that much, but when I have used it I've transferred a couple hundred GB and it was fast. Fits easily in a pocket.
5|Fast and reliable. Compact and doesn't need a separate power source beside USB. Overall very happy. Backup software is not difficult to learn and install.
5|I saved all of my data from my old computer, to install on my new one. It took about 15 minutes to retrieve everything I needed. Great product.
1|I use this drive on Windows 8 so I had to load some different drivers which went fairly smoothly. The problem I have is with the backup software which creates a new folder for each day and backs up the days activity to that folder. I was used to my other backup software that came with my HP backup drive that backed up all the new information to the existing folder. I can't help but to think of the big mess this is going to look like if I were to still be using it a year from now with over 365 folders of backed up material. I would have the unenviable task of trying to remember what day I backed up a certain file and finding it in that particular day. That's not exactly what I had in mind when I purchased this drive.
5|Good product
5|in addition to backup storage, i really enjoy its feature USB3.0 plug and play option. plugs directly into my tv and allows me to play stored media straight from its menu. did i mention ultra sleek design?!
5|First off I'd like to say, although I love tech stuff I'm not even close to a tech junky. This thing looks pretty sweet. You can see from the pictures the shape of it. The size is comparable to an iPhone. One feature many of the reviewers don't mention is the cool LED light on the front face of this device. Its a bright white light on the silver model, I can't imagine it would be a different color on the black one. This hard drive fits my needs perfectly. 500 GB is more than enough space to back both the user and admin accounts on my laptop. I'm used to backing up my hard drive by copying my libraries onto a 2.0 USB 32 GB flash drive, so you can imagine how much of an upgrade buying this device was. For this user, the backup writing speed is very fast. I'm sure there are faster out there, but my needs aren't as extreme as Tom Cruise while he hangs from a wire awaiting the downloads of stolen codes in that white room in Mission Impossible (2?). The Seagate Dashboard 2.0 software is included on the device. You can download it to your computer and use it to backup and restore, or you can do it the old fashion way and click and drag the folders you want to keep from your computer to the hard drive. I use the Seagate software and its pretty well designed. There are instructional videos included on the drive and if those aren't enough Seagate has a YouTube channel that will explain everything and more. The instructional vids included on the device are low quality, almost unwatchable. The one neutral thing I have to say about this device is: although the device does not seem flimsy at all, rather solid in fact, I'd wouldn't want to mildly bang this thing around. While writing you can feel the device vibrate ever so slightly and quietly while the disk spins, I wouldn't jostle it around while doing that. The device itself is sturdy but the moving parts inside make it susceptible to damage. I'm extremely happy with my purchase. 5 Stars.
5|Its great and its quite compact and small. Its portable to carry it everywhere. I loved it. I would suggest everyone to buy it.
2|I purchased this thing to back up files from my PC. Is it working? I don't know! I have yet to find a way to view the files it may have backed up. I am not a power user when it comes to PCs but it seems like there should be something to click on to look at the actual files it has backed up and verify it is working properly. The "Dashboard" software gives options to restore but no way to look at files. I'm fed up with the thing and going back to my old thumb drive so I can drag and drop them open the file. It will probably rest in the bottom of my desk drawer until I forget about the cost and toss it out.
4|It works like a hard drive should. You plug it in, transfer data and you're done. What more could you ask for?
4|Looks great, easy to use. Right out of the box you just plug it in and install the software that is contained on the hard drive and its ready to go. Great interface with the software and easy to setup a back up schedule.
3|The thing won't turn off once it is plugged in to your USB. Thought the light would go out when it was "Eject" ed and I could put it a drawer until time for the next back-up. Have to shut down computer to get the light off and put it away. Maybe I'm a dinosaur, but bad things used happen to hard drives that are just unplugged. Used to do Windows upgrade. Looked at Seagate software and seemed more like bloatware so went with Microsoft Easy Transfer. Did the job, old files transferred successfully. It is really tiny and doesn't make audible noise. You can feel it run if you pick it up though.
5|I use the Seagate portable hard drives on PCs that are not being backed up regularly by the user on on a network. I have several models in use on multiple PCs and have not had one fail yet. They just sit there and do their job with no inconvenience to the user. Some are over 2 years old. I liked the old Seagate Manager and was a little dismayed when they switched to Memeo. Memeo was not obvious when something quit working like the old Seagate Manager and was harder to configure. The new Seagate Navigator is much easier to configure but we have not been using it very long so I can't testify to its long term effectiveness. I use Seagate drives exclusively because of their reliability.
5|I have a Windows 8 notebook and it plugged and played instantly. The product is sleek and sexy, although some may not need to pay for the premium if you don't want it. Overall, I'm super pleased with the drive. The software add-ons were not necessary for me, but it might help you.
5|I love Seagate hard drive very much! It is so thin and small. It is lovely. It is better than Toshiba hard drive slim.
4|After looking at these in the shops, I was real happy to get this for such a good price. I got it at bestbuys but it is super simple. You just plug it in and drag things over to it. Its real slim so you can take it in a pack. Like this baby a lot.
5|I used this H.D. as a back up to my computer, for my granddaughters World series fast pitch softball games. It is handy because it is so slim, I can take it anywhere & hardly takes up any space. It was above my expectations.
5|I purchased this for my MBP Retina to have extra storage for my movies and backups; it works better than I expected. Data speeds are relatively fast - go figure - since it's USB 3.0 supported. I personally can't tell it's even there, which is a good thing! I wish they offered a 1TB version though; I'm definitely considering purchasing another!
4|This drive is great! The included software I would rate around 3/5 because for me it isn't needed but I do see a good use for it, that isn't where the 4 star rating comes in though. First the good. This drive is small, crazy small, I didn't expect it to be this thin, small, and light. Regardless of this it still feels very sturdy and isn't a fingerprint magnet. The front and back of the drive aren't glossy and won't attract much in the way of smudges. The small sides of the product are glossy but not enough to do anything to the look if fingerprints get on them not very noticeable at all. The front can attract a small degree of fingerprints but in my opinion it isn't bad and doesn't cause many problems. The reason I gave this 4 stars is because of the speed... There weren't any specs that said a speed I should expect but I just felt it was a little low for me. Read and write speeds were both around 100MB/s this isn't bad but my USB 3.0 Flash Drive gets around 240MB/s. Again though this drive is fast for an external hard drive, and 100MB/s isn't slacking at all at that speed you can still transfer an HD video in under a minute easily. That fact coupled with the size of this drive is pretty good quality, I definitely recommend this drive. As soon as Seagate upgrades this model to a faster speed I will easily give it 5 stars, right now I give it a 4.5. Very great drive! Highly recommended. Pros -Small -Thin -Light -High Quality -High Storage for Price -Not Glossy -Great Drive Cons -Could be faster Highly recommended 4.5 stars! *Image with disk speeds in customer images Update: 7.5.2013 This drive is still going strong just want to comment on something I said earlier, I said it doesn't attract fingerprints, but actually it does. The front of it (Black Model) does attract smudges, not fingerprints persay, but to much oil on your hands or dirt and it will show a little. The pattern of the casing does make it not so noticeable though. Not to mention it is black, and either way it does wipe off very easily, still a great good looking product!
5|Another great seagate product! For the price and size this is great for my wife to carry with our mew dslr. The reviews for this were mostly positive and I have to agree!
5|I have 3 other 2.5" Seagate drives, as well as many 3.5" drives (some in enclosures, some not). My other 2.5" Seagate drives are not USB 3.0, though, nor as they this "slim" form of drive, so I was keen to see this new version. Well, long story short, I really like it. The casing is very nice - slim for sure, and the brushed metal is a nice touch. Definitely looks sharp, if that's something you're looking for. As for performance, it behaves well - I haven't benchmarked it, but anecdotal, it seems to have that extra pick up on a 3.0 port that it should. I do a monthly backup of around 120 GB of core files, making a backup set on each of 3 drives (just in case!). I usually do this in batches, since it takes so long. Well, going forward, I'm ALWAYS going to start with this drive first b/c it just takes so much less time than the other two 2.0's, that'll I'll just get this one out of the way while I work and then have the other two run in the background overnight. Anyway, very pleased with this product. I like the look, I like how it shaves off a few mms from the previous form factor, and I like the performance. I will consider getting another one of these the next time I need portable storage.
5|I also have the Seagate Slim 500GB for Macs (STCF500400) with GoFlex connector and this one is slightly smaller. Same thickness but length has been reduced. Probably because this doesn't have an interchangeable interface. Write speeds reach 70-80 MB/s, which is pretty good. This will require a properly powered USB port to function. They only place I could plug this in on my desktop PC was directly at the back of the motherboard. It woudn't work at my USB hub or on the front tower USB ports. Otherwise, the shell feels sturdy, and I would definitely recommend.
5|? Fuzzy Wuzzy's Summary: ????? Highly recommended with warm fuzzies! ? Positives: ? This hard drive is indeed very slim, with its 9.5mm thickness being comparable to an internal laptop hard drive. ? The read/write transfer speeds are pretty fast for a 5400-RPM hard drive (but performance will feel slower if you are accustomed to using 7200-RPM drives). ? By installing a Windows or Mac driver, you can use either the Windows or Mac version of this drive on both Windows and Mac computers, which is great for transferring files in between both platforms. ? This drive comes in 500-GB, 1-TB, 2-TB, and 4-TB capacities with different color options for the top metal panel. ? Negatives: ? While the Seagate Dashboard software that is pre-loaded on the hard drive includes very useful and flexible backup software, the other two parts of the software to share files to social media sites and save files from social media sites are limited in their usefulness and flexibility. ? If you are relying on the Seagate Dashboard software to backup all of your user files, such as documents and emails, Dashboard will not backup hidden files, so you need to unhide all folders and files in your C:\Users\ folder by unchecking the folders' or files' "Hidden" property attribute. With a thickness of 9.5mm for the 500-GB drive, this very portable little drive is only slightly thicker than an iPhone or pencil, and its thickness is comparable to many internal laptop/notebook drives. But while 9.5mm-thick internal laptop drives do not have an external case covering them, this drive is housed inside an attractive anodized aluminum metal case, with a plastic bottom base, that gives it a solidly rigid feel to the drive. The hard drive that is housed inside the case may even be thinner than a 7mm internal hard drive. So this external hard drive is actually thinner than most internal laptop/ultrabook hard drives. And the 500-GB drive weighs only 5 ounces, making this an extremely portable drive to carry around. With a thickness of 12.0mm, the 1-TB and 2-TB versions of this drive are 2.5mm thicker and slightly heavier than the 500-GB version. But a 12.0mm-thick drive casing is still tiny for a 2-TB external drive. There are some 15mm-thick 2-TB internal drives that are thicker than this, and they do not have an external case. This hard drive comes with an 18-inch USB 3.0 cable. While this cable length is adequate for plugging into a laptop, I wish that the supplied cable was just a little longer in length (24 inches would be ideal) to allow more flexibility when connecting the hard drive to a desktop computer. My desktop computers are connected to USB hubs located on my desk so the cable is not too short for me, but many people will plug this hard drive directly into their desktop computer's USB port. This drive is whisper quiet and when it is plugged into the USB port, a thin sliver of light glows near one corner of the top of the case to show that it is operational. While this drive is either reading or writing data, the glowing light pulsates, slowly shifting between dim and bright, instead of just blinking like most hard drive status lights. The pulsating hard drive status light looks more unique than the usual blinking light used by other external hard drives, as if the hard drive is breathing in and out while it works. My one minor quibble is that I wish the light would pulsate at a quicker pace. With a blinking hard drive activity LED, I can quickly glance over at the light and see if it is blinking. With this slowly pulsating light, I have to stare at the sliver of light for several seconds to see if the drive is reading/writing. As with all non-SSD hard drives, when I hold this drive in my hand, I can feel its body vibrating due to the spinning platter that is inside, and if I press my ear right up to the case while the drive is reading or writing data, I can just barely hear the read/write head moving around inside. So this hard drive is as quiet as the quietest of internal drives designed for notebooks. I have seen various reviews erroneously mention that this Seagate Slim drive is either a 7200-RPM drive or a SSD drive, but both of those descriptions are incorrect. While Seagate previously used 7200-RPM drives in their GoFlex Slim drives, this Slim drive uses a 5400-RPM drive. For a 5400-RPM hard drive though, its transfer speeds are pretty good. This hard drive connects through a USB 3.0 cable, and as with all USB 3.0 devices being backwardly compatible with USB 2.0, you will only get the faster USB 3.0 speeds if you connect this drive to a USB 3.0 port. Connecting this drive to a USB 2.0 port will result in slower transfer speeds. When tested using the "HD Tune" hard drive performance benchmarking tool on an older laptop with USB 2.0 ports, I get an average read speed of 28 MB/s and an average write speed of 21 MB/s. Connecting this drive to a newer laptop having USB 3.0 ports, I get an average read speed of 92 MB/s (with maximum peaks of around 112 MB/s) and an average write speed of 86 MB/s. Even though most 7200-RPM notebook-sized hard drives will be faster, these speeds are pretty fast for a 5400-RPM hard drive. If you want the fastest speeds using this Seagate Slim drive, you need to plug it into a USB 3.0 port. This rule applies to any external storage device that uses a USB 3.0 cable. Perhaps Seagate chose to not include a faster 7200-RPM hard drive inside this tiny thin enclosure because of potential heat and reliability issues? If I read or write hundreds of megabytes of data, the exterior of the drive does get warm over time since there is no internal cooling fan or ventilation holes in this drive's casing, but it usually does not get too hot. On one occasion, however, I was copying many very large HD video files onto this drive, and after twenty minutes of transferring HD videos back and forth where this hard drive was reading and writing non-stop, the drive's enclosure felt very hot when I touched it, so I undocked and unplugged the drive to let it cool down because I was worried about adversely affecting the drive's long-term reliability by continuing to operate it with the temperature inside its enclosure being so hot. The drive enclosure's metal top surface cooled down after about fifteen minutes, and I then plugged the drive back into my laptop and proceeded to edit the HD videos that were now loaded onto the drive. Because this tiny hard drive is housed in such a small totally-sealed enclosure, you should let it cool down sometimes if feels too hot after extended periods of reading/writing data. Avoiding repetitive overheating is a good idea for any external hard drive that lacks a cooling fan or ventilation holes in the hard drive's enclosure since heat can degrade a hard drive's performance and reliability over time. With most electronic components, repeatedly overheating the electronics can cause hardware failures and overheating is the primary cause of hard drive failure. Also avoid bumping, jarring, or dropping this hard drive, especially when it is plugged in. About 800 MB of this drive's space is used up by the pre-loaded Seagate Dashboard software and brief tutorial videos on using the Seagate Dashboard software to protect and back up your files, save social media files, and conveniently share image and video files that are stored on this drive to Facebook, Flickr, and YouTube. If you are certain that you do not ever want to use this Dashboard software, you can delete the 'Seagate Dashboard Installer.dmg' Mac software file, the 'Seagate Dashboard Installer.exe' Windows software file, and the 'Video' folder to free up hundreds of megabytes of disk space. A 'Seagate' folder that is in the root directory contains a 'SerialNumber.xml' file that has the model number and serial number of the drive. The model number and serial number are also printed on the bottom panel of the drive however. In the Windows version of this drive, the 'Seagate' folder has a 'Seagate-Release.exe' program that you can run to register the drive with Seagate. After you finish registering the drive, you can delete the 'Seagate' folder. If you want to leave the software and tutorial videos on the drive, you can still delete either the 135-MB 'Seagate Dashboard Installer.dmg' Mac software file or the 156-MB 'Seagate Dashboard Installer.exe' Windows software file if you only exclusively use Mac or Windows computers. In the 'Video' folder, there are eight folders - 'en-US', 'fr-FR', 'it-IT', 'ko-KR', 'ru-RU', 'sv-SE', 'zh-CN', and 'zh-TW' - that each contain the same set of four tutorial videos: 'Introducing Seagate Backup Plus', 'Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial', 'Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial', and 'Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial'. These eight sets of videos are identical in the video and audio, and only differ in the subtitle language used: English (no subtitles), French, Italian, Korean, Russian, Swedish, Chinese, and Taiwanese. If you keep the 'en-US' English video that has no subtitles and delete the other seven folders, you free up almost 350 MB of space. Of the three components in the Seagate Dashboard software, the "Protect" function offers the most usefulness and flexibility, while the "Share" and "Save" functions for sharing/uploading to and saving from social media sites are limited in their capabilities. With the Dashboard's "Protect" function, you can schedule backups of your files based on a regular hourly/daily/weekly/monthly schedule, or have your files backed up whenever they are added or modified, or make backups on an as-needed basis by manually initiating a "snapshot" backup of your files. I am always surprised by how many people never back up the files on their computers, either their work-related files or their personal files, including documents, email and Microsoft Outlook files, photo/music/media files, or other files that are often irreplaceable if their computer's hard drive suddenly fails. If your computer has years of files accumulated on it that you have never backed up to another disk, to a CD/DVD, or to an online cloud-based backup service, this Seagate Slim hard drive can be used as your backup device where you can store a duplicate copy of all your important files. If you have already been using a backup process, as mentioned, you do not have to install the Dashboard software and you can just completely delete all the pre-loaded software from this hard drive if you want. Important Note About Backup Software In General: If you do use the pre-loaded Seagate "Protect" software to back up your files, or if you use other kinds of automated backup software, you should randomly spot-check some of the duplicated backup files and folders every one or two months to verify that the files are correctly being copied and that they can be read correctly. Spot-check the backup files more frequently if they are important and you really value their integrity. Backup software is still a software application and, just like firmware and other software, and also taking into account that a hard drive may start to slowly fail with read/write errors after years of usage, there may be a software or hardware glitch that causes a file to either not be backed up by the backup software, or to be backed up but unreadable. By occasionally spot-checking the integrity of your backup files, you reduce the possibility of having an unpleasant surprise if you really need to recover the files from the backup copy. A data error can happen with any electronic storage media. For example, if you back up files by burning data to a CD/DVD/Blu-ray disc, you should spot-check their integrity by accessing some of their files at least once a year. The same rule applies if your backup files are stored by a cloud-based backup/storage service. There are also integrity-checking software that will automatically verify the integrity of hard disks or optical media. I am an avid photographer, and with terabytes of hard disk space becoming more inexpensive each year, my favorite way to back up files is by manually copying files and folders to two separate hard drives in a "manual RAID 1" setup where I manually back up and mirror the photo and HD-video files onto two separate drives, instead of relying on backup software to perform the function. I previously used a dual-hard-drive RAID 1 storage unit, but I like being able to directly access either drive and I also do not like how RAID 1 simultaneously deletes files from both drives if I ever type or click too fast and have an "oops" accidental file deletion. Important Note About Using Seagate Dashboard For Backups: As stated in the User Guide for Seagate's Dashboard backup software, Dashboard will NOT backup and save the contents of the 'Windows' and 'Program Files' directories, any other system-related files, files stored on detachable USB drives, and hidden files. By default, unless you have explicitly saved your documents and email files in a different location, Microsoft Windows stores all of your personal user files in a folder like C:\Users\YourUserName. This folder location can be accessed, either via the Command Prompt or using the Windows environment variable %UserProfile%, so you can go to your user profile by entering `cd %UserProfile%` in a 'Command Prompt' window; this location is usually C:\Users\YourUserName. Inside your C:\Users\YourUserName folder, there are two important folders called "Documents" and "AppData" where your various data files, document/text/work files, and email files are stored. Seagate Dashboard will not backup files and folders in your C:\Users\YourUserName if they have the "Hidden" attribute turned on. If you want hidden files in these two folders to be backed up, perform these steps: (1) Either from the Windows/File Explorer options or by searching for "folder" from the Control Panel, access the 'Folder Options' and turn on the 'Show hidden files and folders' option. (2) Open up Windows Explorer or File Explorer. (3) Right-click on both the "Documents" and "AppData" folders in your C:\Users\YourUserName folder and select "Properties". (4) On the Properties pop-up window, uncheck the 'Hidden' Attribute box, click [Apply], and also select the option to apply the action to all subfolders and files. (5) View the "Properties" for other folders and files stored in other locations to see if their 'Hidden' Attribute is checked and repeat this same procedure for those hidden folders/files that you wish to back up. Versions of Microsoft Outlook prior to Outlook 2010 store your PST email files in: C:\Users\YourUserName\AppData\Local\Microsoft\Outlook\ and your "AppData" folder will need to have its 'Hidden' Attribute unset for those email files to be backed up. Later versions of Outlook store PST files in C:\Users\YourUserName\Documents\Outlook Files\, which is typically not hidden and will be backed up. The Dashboard software's "Share" function lets you share files that are stored on the hard drive by uploading to either Facebook, Flickr, or YouTube. And the "Save" function lets you save photos from Facebook or Flickr. Unlike the "Share" function, "Save" does not let you save videos from YouTube. But there are many freeware software and online sites that can convert and save YouTube videos already. I really did not care for how either these "Share" or "Save" functions worked because they are quite limited in their flexibility, and it is very easy to perform the same functions directly using the Facebook, Flickr, and YouTube sites without having to go through an intermediate step of using the Dashboard software to upload files. Perhaps Seagate added the "Share" and "Save" options for computer newbies or social media newcomers. But the irony is that even though this Dashboard software "dumbs down" the uploading of files to Facebook, Flickr, and YouTube, the computer newbies who would most benefit from using the "Share" and "Save" options may not even have an account on Facebook, Flickr, and YouTube. This pocket-sized drive is quite small and light: 4.5"x3.0"x0.4" and 5.3 ounces (including the USB cable) for the 500-GB version, with the 1-TB and 2-TB versions being slightly thicker and heavier. You can use this portable drive to shuttle files back and forth between Windows and Mac computers, dragging and dropping folders and files to transfer them between the computer and this external hard drive. Note that there are two versions of this Seagate Slim external hard drive: a Windows version formatted for NTFS and a Mac version formatted for HFS+. You should get the version for the platform that you work on the most. If you mainly use a Mac and you use Time Machine for your backups, you should definitely get the Mac version of this drive. If you mainly work on Windows and Mac is more of a secondary computer, you should get the Windows version of this drive. Since Windows NTFS and Mac HFS+ file systems do not automatically play well together, use of this hard drive on both Windows and Mac computers does require the download and installation of a driver. If you get the Windows version of this drive, when you plug the drive into a Mac, it will download from the Internet a necessary Mac driver (NTFS_for_Mac_with_restart.dmg) that lets the Windows-NTFS-formatted drive work with Macs. NTFS drives are normally read-only on Mac OS, and this driver lets Macs both read and write on the NTFS-formatted version of this hard drive. Note that because Mac's Time Machine requires a Mac-HFS-formatted drive, when you use the Windows version of this drive with the Mac driver, this setup cannot work with Time Machine unless you reformat the drive to be a HFS+journaled file system... in which case you might as well just get the Mac version of this drive if you intend to also use it with Time Machine. If you get the Mac version of this drive, when you plug the drive into a Windows PC, it will download a necessary Windows driver (HFS4Win.exe) that lets the Mac-HFS+formatted drive work with Windows. You can also download both the Mac-driver-for-Windows-NTFS and Windows-driver-for-Mac-HFS+ drivers directly from Seagate's Web site. See the 'Comments' section of my review for the URL locations. Seagate should have pre-loaded both of these Windows/Mac drivers on the hard drive just like how they pre-loaded both the Windows and Mac versions of their Dashboard software. Overall, this is a great little drive that is sized for maximum portability. It includes a 2-year limited warranty. And at the time of this review's writing, Amazon is offering this hard drive at a great price of less than $70 for the 500-GB size. It was not that long ago when a 500-GB portable hard drive costed hundreds of dollars and was at least three times larger in size. If my review helped you to make an informed buying decision, please click the [Yes] button below. If not, please offer suggestions for how I can improve this review. If you have questions, please ask.
5|I've used a ton of drives, both internal and external, and I gotta say I really like this one. First of all, it's way smaller than I was expecting. Extremely thin and light, with an aluminum case on the top and sides, plastic on the bottom (I'd assume to help with vibration isolation). I've tested it via both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 - both worked flawlessly and incredibly quickly, with 3.0 being considerably faster as you'd expect. In fact, copying a single 1GB file onto this drive via USB 3.0 was competitive speed-wise with my 7200RPM Seagate internal SATA drive. Impressive, indeed. USB 2.0 copies, for comparison, took over three times as long. The drive is extremely quiet and throws no real heat, even when under load. It comes with an 18" USB 3.0 cable, which I wish were longer, and software pre-loaded on the drive. Plugging it into my Windows 7 box gave me immediate access as it should. The software, unlike most that I've seen from drive manufacturers, is actually very good and I had no problem setting up backups on my machine. One minor disappointment: you can't use it with other internal drives as a backup target. I was hoping to be able to set it up with backups to my internal 1GB Seagate that I already back up to, but no dice. Of course, this is just a testament to how much I actually liked the software. All in all, this is the best external drive I've ever owned, once you factor in speed, looks, size and software. It makes a perfect backup for a laptop due to its ridiculously small size, but works great with a desktop as well. Highly recommended.
4|Pro: Very compact, Solidly Built, Good price, MAC OS Driver Con: Runs hot, Included software is problematic For many years now I have been using portable USB drives for my professional work as the convenience of the portability outweighs the slowness of access. Fortunately, these drives keep increasing in size, reliability, and decreasing in price. I got this particular drive in order to use the included automatic backup software on the drive, to easily backup those work-files which did not reside on my main 1GB portable drive, but on my office desktop. The drive itself has been a joy. It is physically smaller than my WD portables, and does seem to actually run at USB-3 speeds. My only unhappiness with the drive is that it runs noticeably hotter than the WD. The problem I had was with the included "Seagate Dashboard" backup software. The setup seems easy enough, and it is possible to configure one drive to work on several computers - which was the point of going for this drive. Sadly, attempting to retrieve a given file for restoration is an exercise in frustration. The interface for doing this is obscure, but the killer problem is that for some reason Seagate decided to restrict the apps window to a very small size, which it is not possible to expand. I tend to have deep directory structures. Trying to find the file of interest is like trying to drive your car by looking through the road at a hole cut in the floor. The other problem I had, and which caused me to uninstall Dashboard, reformat the drive, and simply use another backup/encrypt program on the drive is not something which I can definitely say was the result of Dashboard. However, this computer is newish, very stable mild-overclock, runs W8 and rarely locks up. About a week after installing Dashboard I got a BSOD shutdown. As the computer seemed to boot up just fine after that, and as I was trying to finish several projects at work prior to going on vacation I did not carefully check the system - but continued to use it. Upon returning from vacation, I discovered that one of my RAID arrays (the computer has 3) - which had directories which Dashboard was backing up - had been split, and that variable amounts of the former RAID-1 drives were shown as unallocated and, as noted, were now shown as two drives. This explained some mysterious filesystem problems I had been having. I was not able to restore the RAID, but had to rebuild it and it is currently reading in the 1.5TB of vanished data from a backup. As I do backup regularly, I seem to have lost only about half-a-dozen files. Was this the result of Dashboard? I do not know, but I do know from reading reviews on other sites that some people have experienced drive corruption problems - but, given the background level of such, it cannot be said it was due to Dashboard. One problem, which I did not experience, is that Dashboard allegedly causes Windows to erratically switch the primary and secondary monitors. Even without the possible BSOD or monitor issues, the ridiculously limited file display is reason enough to not use Dashboard. I uninstalled Dashboard, reformatted the drive, and am now quite happy with it. I also received one of these drives to try out on my MacBook Pro Seagate Backup Plus 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable External Hard Drive for Mac (STBW500900). That version does not ship with Dashboard - as TimeMachine is such a reliable program. I have not tried using either the Mac to PC, or PC to Mac file access programs which are included with the drive. I have had quite dismal experiences with such software in the past, and now only transfer files between PC and Mac via a NAS fileserver. Avoid the software, and you will be happy with the drive. Disclaimer: I was provided this item by Amazon for review.
5|With the Seagate 500 GB USB Slim portable hard drive I've been able to upload all of my important business papers/documents, pictures, family papers and documents, and everything I've needed to keep and been able to scan since getting the 500 GB hard drive. I was not only able to upload everything I mentioned, but also our tax returns and supporting documents from the past 7 years. I wanted to be sure to keep all the necessary and supporting documents going back 7 years because of major changes of our financial status and those of our oldest child. My husband and I also had our Wills done and Trusts for our children, as well as all of the supporting documentation for these items. Despite uploading all of the above information, I've only scratched the surface of what's available on the drive. I have so much more room for just about anything I could think to upload! I think even if I had all of my books available for upload, all of our music, the whole families pictures, and all the our school papers and documents, I think there would still be plenty of room on the drive for anything we'd want to upload for at least another year. The only way I can imagine running out of room anytime soon, is if I uploaded all of the movies we stream! That might take up some serious room, but I wouldn't do that - there are few things I want to watch more than once or twice, and those can be kept in the cloud. I would seriously recommend this 500 GB USB 3.0 portable hard drive to anyone with any serious documentation that needs to be maintained - even those with precious pictures, music, books, movies, and documents I'd recommend getting a Seagate hard drive. I've had no problems what so ever, and this is not the first Seagate hard drive we've had. Never a problem, never a glitch... Seagate hard drives have been 5 star winners every time!
3|My husband and I had two Seagate brand hard drives already, both 750GB. I was looking for a separate one to use as basically a "courier" between our two machines, one a Windows Vista box and the other Windows XP. This 500GB slim drive has been perfect for just that. I ripped all our CDs into mp3s on my computer and just copied the files over to this slim drive, gave it to my husband and they transferred to the XP box beautifully. It was faster than even the other Seagate external hard drives we have and without the file issues we get with flash drives. For whatever reason, flash drives and memory cards will hold mp3s, but when I transfer from Vista to XP and back, the files are shown as "incompatible" -- that doesn't happen with this external hard drive, so it's been a godsend for us. The size is great, too. We keep it in the original box to prevent jostling but when in use, it sits perfectly on top of our box without being intrusive. Fits well into our carrying case, too. I do warn users that the USB cord it comes with is stiff, and the drive itself is light, which makes it very easy for the cord to "push" the drive if it gets bumped. This happened once to me and the drive fell right onto my hard glass desk, but still worked. Usually a drive would have been bricked immediately from such a bump but this one wasn't -- I do NOT recommend dropping it or being rough with it just to test this theory out, though! Update 2/17/2015: I've dropped my review from 5 stars down to 3 because of a problem I've had with both this and the Mac/PC version of this drive -- after a little under two years, my Vista PC wouldn't recognize the drive anymore. We ended up only using this drive as a "courier" between the Vista and old XP box a few times, but then put a bunch of backups of DVDs on the drive, and it sat quietly on our shelf without being used more than once every 4-5 months. In the summer of 2014, I tried to use it on the Vista and the PC couldn't even detect it was there. The XP can still use this drive, though. The same happened with the Mac/PC version of the drive, except the XP box doesn't detect THAT one at all, so all the backups I had on it were lost. The other two Seagate drives we have (750GB and 1TB) are fine, so far, it's only this particular type of Seagate drive I've had a problem with.
5|The design for this portable drive is sleek, light-weight and slim, the interface is also fast, my WD drive takes about a minute to be fully recognized by computers, this drive takes about 20 to 30 seconds and then it is ready for anything. I also like the USB three connector on this drive, it is sturdier than the WD connector. All in all it a great external drive that can be used with both PC and Mac.
5|It makes keeping my laptop backed up on the go. Exactly what I needed and Seagate is the best drive on the market for quality and dependability.
4|Needs more testing, but so far so good- this is my back-up back-up..... let's hope it lasts a fair 3 years!
5|This Seagate Slim drive allows me to multitask with files on a portable drive without locking the drive up. I often will have a large load of data to transfer to the drive, but also like to look over some video files that have transferred to the drive previously while I wait to check it transferred okay, etc. On some older portable drives I use, I cannot do these two tasks at once - the video will stall considerably while data is transferring. The Slim had no problems with video playback of large files stored on it while still transferring data. If I try to add a third task (data transferring, video playing, & viewing through large image files on the drive), things start to be affected, but most times I only want to do the two tasks at once. This drive cools down very quickly. I transferred a bunch of files from my WD My Passport drive directly to this Seagate Slim. The transfer took place over several hours. Both warmed up but when finally done with the transfer, the Slim cooled back down to room temp in about ten minutes. The Passport didn't feel like it had cooled down at all. I'm very pleased with the way this drive works and the look of the drive as well. It's about the thickness of a smartphone, and only slightly wider than one.
5|I've got a couple of other Seagate portable hard drives, and they're about the same size as the cell phone my workplace provides with with (a Galaxy SIII), though about twice as thick. As far as pulling them out and taking them along with you, that's pretty darn good. But then this little guy popped up on Vine and I was running low on space on the desktop, so I grabbed one... and seriously, you can fit 500GB on a drive only a little larger (and again about twice as thick) as a credit card these days? Ridiculous! I do have to say that this one has remained stationary with the desktop, so I haven't been banging it around the way I have with the larger drives, so I can't comment on how well it holds up to travel (and with Amazon's new ridiculous thirty-day limit on review posting--which means this is the last item I'll be getting from Vine--it's not like a reviewer has NEARLY enough time to put it through its paces anyway), but as far as being able to tuck 500GB out of the way on your desktop? Amazing.
4|I picked up this hard drive for two reasons: 1) To act as a quick and easy extra backup method for some critical files 2) To share large files between a Mac and a PC to allow for multi-platform editing without having to rely on network traffic (i.e. - cloud shares, network shares, etc) to move the large files around In both cases, I was very happy. Out of the box, the hard drive worked flawlessly to enable both my Mac and PC to access the necessary files. Simply plug it into one machine, manipulate the files, unplug the drive and plugin to the other machine for the other edits. It acts for me as a fast and reliable "flash drive" but with much larger capacity. Installing the Seagate software was super easy and automatic. Just install, configure and relax. I only installed on my PC so I can't speak to how well it works with Mac backups (I use Time Machine on my Mac anyway) but the Seagate software worked great on my PC and brought some nice peace of mind. I tried some Seagate software a few years ago and wasn't that impressed, but they seem to have made some changes that have it working pretty reliably with customizable options that do what I need. I love the size and speed of the drive. It's fabulous that it's USB 3.0...super fast. It's also very compact. It weighs about as much as my cell phone and is only slightly larger. This makes for an easy and convenient piece of hardware to just drop in a pocket or a bag without adding the bulky weight of a larger drive. I'm still eagerly awaiting an affordable large capacity (500GB or higher) flash drive. Until then, I'm very happy with this drive and will get plenty of use out of it. :) **** 4 out of 5 stars
5|I'm amazed at the size and performance of this thing. For 500 GB backup storage in a rugged, portable USB self-contained device, no bigger than a nice metal cigarette case (I don't smoke, but I have friends who do ... lol) just blows my mind. I have another older external 500 GB storage drive for my desktop that is about the size of a good-sized book, weighs in at about the same, requires a separate plug-in AC adapter to operate, and runs much warmer than this Seagate Slim. It exceeds all the expectations I had when I ordered it. I easily transport multi-megabyte files among three desktops and an ASUS netbook, not only as a "backup" per se, but as an actual active drive imaging the larger external drive described above. And I carry it in my pocket! As for speed? It's a modern USB 3.0 -- what more can be said? It's great! Get it.
5|I have to say, I am quite happy with this device as a Time Machine backup for my Mac desktop. You may have noticed that some drives advertise that they are formated for Macs or PCs. Ignore this stuff. If you plug this device into the USB port of a Mac, open up the Time Machine preferences, and select the Seagate slim drive, Time Machine will ask you whether or not to reformat the drive for Mac. Click yes, and that's all it takes. The formatting takes almost no time. Then, you can direct Time Machine to use the drive for your backup. No muss, no fuss. With a USB 3 connection, the backup is quite fast. If you are using an older computer with only a USB 2 port, the drive will only connect at USB 2 speed, though, so be warned about that. What impresses me about the device, though, is how tiny and unobtrusive it is. I don't even notice it's there. There are fancier backup drives out there that back up files wirelessly and add a lot of unnecessary bells and whistles. If you have a free USB port, though, this is pretty much all you'll need.
5|I can't find anything wrong with this drive so I don't have a reason to mark it down. It is very compact and seems solid. I plugged it into my computer (windows 7) and it just worked. Of course, having only had it a short time, I can't say whether it will prove to be reliable or not. I have another drive, a WD My Passport 1TB Portable External Hard Drive Storage USB 3.0 Black, that is my "primary" backup drive so I use the software on that one and just use this one as an extra backup for the truly irreplaceable family pictures. I would say the the question of which drive to buy really comes down to which of the the drives seems to be a good value (price vs capacity) when you are shopping.
5|This drive does just what it is supposed to do, and it does it fast and easily. I had no trouble in set up, nor in copying and restoring files. It is as fast as any external hard drive I have ever used.
4|Great hard drive and speeds. This drive runs quiet and cool. The size is perfect and slides in anywhere in the bag.
5|Mostly everything that can be said has already been said about the Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive-Black (STCD500102)Its small, light and very portable. It is much faster than its 2.0 predecessors and that makes it the near perfect portable hard drive. Last week while fires were burning out of control only 20 miles away my daughter asked me what we would take if we had to evacuate with only 20 to 30 minutes to pack up... I told her we would grab the cat and the photo albums and the laptop and the portable hard drives. These things are great for storing your most vital information in a compact easy to access place. The Seagate Slim is extreemely handy to put your important files and data. I have now begun the laborious process of digitizing photos as well and the Seagate Slim is a great start.
5|This is a great, slim, finger-print friendly, aluminum-matte-finish USB 3.0 500gb external flash drive. It has an "upscale" look and metal-feel, versus some of the shiny, glossy, plasticky and cheaper feeling ones out there. No bulky external power cord or adapter is needed unlike other manufacturers' models, it comes with the USB cord that you plug into your USB2.0 or 3.0 port. It's backwards compatible with USB 2.0, but if you want 3x-5x the speed of USB 2.0, you will need a computer that has USB 3.0 ports. If you're not sure and the price is right, then it doesn't matter, since this external hard drive will still work for you. I've transferred hundreds of gigabytes of files already with no issue. I do not use the internal software, I just use this to archive family photos and videos and for sharing.
5|- IT'S A BEAUTY I received this ultra compact 2.5" external hard drive drive through the Vine program. After briefly admiring its beauty (faux brushed aluminum in a deep jet black), I set about putting it through its paces. - THE TEST-BED Asus Zenbook Prime (2012 model) UX32VD ultrabook computer (stock, with no modifications). This ultra-book is an all-USB 3.0 model and I used one of the 3 available USB 3.0 ports to provide a directly cabled connection to the Seagate Slim. - THE TEST: SMALL FILE TRANSFER TEST (SMALL FILES ARE A GOOD TORTURE TEST THAT ALL EQUIPMENT HAS TROUBLE WITH) 1GB worth of 4KB (small) files transferred: - From the computer's internal hard drive to the Seagate Slim: 5 mins 25 secs - From the Seagate Slim to the computer's internal hard drive: 1 min 40 secs . . LARGE FILE TRANSFER TEST (LARGE FILES ARE EASY FOR ALL EQUIPMENT) A single 1GB iso (large) file transferred: - From the computer's internal hard drive to the Seagate Slim: 25 secs - From the Seagate Slim to the computer's internal hard drive: 35 secs . . THIN IS IN I'm normally interested in capacity and performance - usually in that order. Under those criteria, this drive wouldn't normally rank very well. After all, there are much higher capacity portable drives: the Western Digital 2TB passport is one that I frequently use when I am looking for high capacity. And there are faster drives available: anything spinning at 7200 RPM or higher is likely to be a bit faster. But, the thin and light nature of this drive begs for it to be paired up with the ultra-book. They just look right together. You carry an ultra-book to travel lightly and therefore an ultra-slim hard-drive fits right in to the motif. The Seagate Slim offers good performance at a moderate capacity point in a very thin enclosure. - COLOR CHOICES In addition to the black model (Model No. STCD500102) that I reviewed, Seagate makes this drive in a silver finish (Model No. STCD500104). - CONCLUSION It all comes back to capacity: is 500GB enough? I want to say 'yes,' but it would take a 1TB capacity drive for me to say 'definitely.' If you can be satisfied with 500GB and want a thin enclosure, then the Seagate Slim is probably the drive for you. It has good performance, is super-light, inexpensive, and very compact. I'm considering trimming down some of my data and making the Seagate Slim my D: Data drive for use with the ultra-book. They would go very well together. - ALTERNATIVES If you need: - 256GB capacity and an even more compact form-factor, I would recommend the Patriot Supersonic Magnum thumbdrive. - 512GB capacity, faster speed, and an even more compact form-factor, I would recommend an mSATA SSD in the MyDigitalSSD Bulletproof enclosure. - 500GB capacity and faster speed, I would recommend the Oyen U32 Shadow 480GB SSD. - 1TB capacity, I would recommend the Oyen U32 Shadow. The Shadow is 1.5mm thicker, slightly longer in length, and slightly narrower in width. The weight is only slightly more. - 2TB capacity, I would recommend the WD My Passport. .
5|Yes, it's only 500 GB while WD has a "similar" size drive that has four times the storage. The thing is, the WD My Passport 2TB Portable External Hard Drive Storage USB 3.0 Black is at least twice as thick. And when held in each hand, the Western Digital Passport seems substantially more than twice the thickness. If you want an external hard drive that is as small, thin, and light as possible, this is your best option. It's so small that it will make you consider packing it in your notebook computer bag instead of a large capacity thumb drive.
5|With a very slim form factor, this external hard drive couldn't be more portable. It actually has a size a little thinner than the iphone. Read/write speed super fast with USB3.0. It seems to be a good product so far. If anything happens on the 6 months, I'll come back with my update, otherwise you can feel confident on investing in this hd.
4|This drive is impressive. The first impression I got is that it is very nice looking and tiny. It's approximately the size of a smart phone. I wish they would leave off all of the software that comes pre-loaded on the drive, but formatting is easy enough. I will update this review in the future to comment on the reliability of this drive, but so far it has been great.
5|Ever since I switched to Seagate, I have never looked back. I back up all my media to Seagate external drives and I have never experienced a failure yet. These new slim drives are no exception. They are great. The slim design is strong and lite, easy to pack up or store for long periods. They plug in to any USB port and work immediately. What else could you ask for? When I travel to shoot video on location for clients I can even edit quick video clips from my laptop using this drive to store all my HD footage while I use the internal HD to run my editing software. These drives work like a charm. I highly recommend this drive to back up data or even extend your current drive space. Seagate is a name and brand you can trust.
5|I have had numerous external hard drives over the years, dating back to a big, glowing Western Digital 80gb USB 1 model. This is one of the best I've come across. The USB 3.0 transfer speeds are great considering it's such a small mechanical drive powered only by the USB voltage. It hit peaks of about 100 mb per second on my Intel 3770k/Win8 based system when I transferred a 450gb music library to the drive. The drive includes a short USB 3.0 cable. The drive comes loaded with some Seagate software to assist with backing up data. I didn't use that as I am an established Norton Ghost user. The construction of this drive feels pretty sturdy. It has a metal top panel and a slightly rounded plastic underside. It's superior to its slightly larger Seagate portable sibilings, which are all plastic and don't feel quite as solid. Prices are reasonable on these. I hope it holds up. Based on initial impressions, I would recommend this drive.
5|This portable hard drive is amazingly slim and lightweight - some smartphones are bigger and heavier than it. And it is lightning fast (if you use a USB 3.0 port on your PC). I ran a backup of about 170 GB and it took just about ten minutes for that to be finished. Since I do not need the bundled software, I removed it and thus cannot say anything about it. But the very small size of the drive, its rather sturdy metal casing, the blazing speed and my previous good experiences with the longevity and reliability of other Seagate drives let me no other choice than to give five stars here.
4|One would think after I had used several of these portable drives already, both Toshiba and Seagate, that this would not present any problem. I wanted a new drive to just preform back up on new documents and material I was putting in my computer which this says it will do. The directions are almost non-existent and for a newbie using this - it would be hit and miss to get it going without a lot of frustration. When I first plugged this in and got it working, it immediately said the drive was full and could not hold any more, yet when I checked on my computer it said the drive was empty. So I redid the backup criteria to hourly and set it for the top of the hour. It finally started to collect data, but one part of the dashboard still says it's full. The computer speed has, also noticeably slowed down. It's really discouraging as new equipment comes out it is always assumed everyone knows all about it. What happened to some directional advice? The site also shows how slim this is, which is true and it easily slips into a pocket. My advice is to buy a case for it which will easily slip into a brief case or another case you carry - apart from your computer. If your computer goes missing you still have your information, but carrying in an unprotected pocket is not always the best way to protect some valuable information. It might also be advisable to look into a larger capacity, with photos and music and documents, much less cloud, Facebook and so on you stand a good probability of running out of GB.
5|A little package of wonder: roughly three by four inches by maybe a third of an inch high, this fast USB 3.0 drive packs (after formatting) about 470GB of data in a svelte package that can get lost in your pocket. For someone who remembers (and worked with) early, gargantuan hard drives, it's all the more remarkable. With a USB 3.0 connection, this hummer is fast. Seagate supplies a short USB 3.0 cable, which is also backwards compatible with USB 2.0. You can also get other interface modules, but they are not going to be as slim as the drive. So far, the drive works as it should. As for durability over the long term, time will tell. Personally, I feel like I should be handling it super-gently because it is so small and light, but in reality, I guess it is just as tough as any other 2.5 inch form factor USB hard drive. Typically, I don't bother with the software supplied by hardware manufacturers. I have my standard backup software installed on all my computers and I see no reason to change or supplement it. I tried out the Seagate-supplied Dashboard software and found it capable of simple backup tasks and sharing with Facebook, Flickr, YouTube and Seagate's own cloud service. It has a better interface than most, but I still prefer my standard backup software. Overall, I confine my ranking criteria to the drive and enclosure and it is great. I just love the little bitty package: perfect for carrying around with you. I hope they are able to stuff in more storage in the same form factor. Jerry
4|Although the Seagate Slim has the least capacity (465GB of usable storage space) of my current generation external drives it has immediately become my favorite, with external dimensions only minimally larger than an iPhone 4 so when Seagate speaks to portability they are right on target. I find the black anodized metal case attractive and the white illumination power lamp is so discreet you might not notice it when staring at it. I embrace the whole cloud concept right up to the point the thunderstorm starts and the data charges downpour has you searching for dry shelter so if I'm investing in a cloud it's going to be one under my complete control so I am of the opinion you can't have too my alternatives. Since my primary use of an iPhone or iPod is as a music player, if I can figure out how to make this device compatible with my car audio system, I'll be kicking the 160gb max iMobile device family to the curb as well. Right now, I'm using it to store a eclectic range of Music files that never seem to be available on the laptop when I want to hear them. Pre-formated NTFS, the drive also includes the NFTS for Mac driver that can be installed by users who wish to use the drive interchangeably with iOS systems. Also preloaded is the Seagate Dashboard utility which appears most useful for users who are actively involved with video/photo transfers to and from popular social networking sites With two backup options, scheduled and continuous, some may find a degree of utility there although the option of continuous backup to a portable drive most likely to be attached to a laptop doesn't make a lot of sense to me and equally as perplexing, it does not appear scheduling manual backup is an option either.
5|Overall, this external hard drive does what it is supposed to do: provides a quick backup with the 3.0 USB cable for your files. I also like the smaller sleek design, as I am using this drive to transport my music files between work and home. Doing a fresh copy of my music files usually takes about 25 - 30 minutes with a 2.0 connection, but with the 3.0 connection it took 6-7 minutes. The cord that came with it is almost two feet long, which is about the minimum I would recommend - if your budget can afford it, especially if you are using it as a true portable / carry around drive, I would get at least a 3 foot or longer cord. At less than $70 for pricing of half a TB of space, this one is a pretty good deal and I would recommend it.
5|I've been using several external hard drives recently and this is the 4th one I've used in a year. I assume that the form factor is part of a new generation of drives, since this is about half the size of the Seagate Expansion 1 TB USB 3.0 Portable External Hard Drive (STBX1000101) that I received less than six months ago. I was pleasantly surprised when I opened the box and found a significantly smaller drive. It's also significantly smaller than the WD My Passport for Mac 1TB Portable External Hard Drive Storage USB 3.0 making it the smallest external hard drive I own. Windows 7 opened it up right away with no issues whatsoever. It came formatted for Windows so writing back and forth from a Windows machine worked well; however, and this is a given... you will have to reformat this drive if you want to write from a mac. The mac reads it just fine. Hooking it up to a USB 3.0 port on my home-built rig, it works just like all my other drives. The smaller form factor makes no difference in speed. It took nearly 20 minutes to copy a single 150gb file using a USB 3.0 file. That's not a great deal faster than using USB 2.0 connection, but I think that part of the problem was using a single large file for testing. I can't really justify the lack of difference in speed other than that and it kind of made me question the result. So then I tried a totally different test. Instead I tried copying over exactly 24,817 files which added up to 1.84 GB and tried using both USB 2.0 and USB 3.0 files. This time the result was staggering. Using USB 2.0 the transfer took 7:30 minutes, but using the USB 3.0, the transfer time was less than 2:30. HUGE difference. So clearly I found a difference in transfer times. I was very happy about that. The size is also a big plus. It really is small. The tutorials that came with the drive are silly. But maybe not completely worthless if this is the first time you've used an external drive. The Seagate dashboard (available on both Mac and PC) seems like an intrusive program so I'm not sure how long I'll leave that installed. I did like one particular feature of the software (normally I don't use pre-installed software if at all possible): The ability to download/backup all of your social media data to the hard drive. This process does involve giving Seagate your password to Facebook (or Flickr) and yet another FB app is attached to your profile, but it works. It's not particularly fast but it promises to automatically back up your social media. It was time consuming, and not something I'll stick with, but it was an interesting addition to the software packet. The rest of the software is rudimentary, and there are better freeware alternatives, but it's nice that they include something. Overall it's a great little drive and I really like how these keep getting smaller. I would definitely buy one of these in the future if I needed another external drive. The size alone makes it different than the others I've seen.
5|Design Overall, the design of this external hard drive is excellent. It comes in a sleek black with a metallic pattern on the top and a matte black plastic back. This Seagate drive is about the size of a passport book and is only .75 inches thick, very slim compared to my other external. Although it is lightweight, the build quality is solid and feels as if it could take a reasonable amount of abuse. It also has a thin light on the front that indicates the device is plugged into your computer and no buttons to mess around with. Performance This little hard drive is compatible with USB 3.0 and backwards compatible with any standard USB (like 2.0) outlet your computer may have. That being said, 3.0 is currently the fastest USB port available. So it is nice to have that option to optimize speed. Even though this was a 500GB hard drive, mine came with 465GB of actual space for additions due to the firmware and software previously installed. However, do not be discouraged as this is standard for all externals. When running on a 2.0 port, I was able to download about 23GB in 10 minutes. Ease of Use There is no special software needed to run this hard drive and it is compatible with Windows and Mac. You simply plug this into your computer, your computer should automatically install the needed driver software, and you should be good to go. To put content on the drive just drag individual elements, NOT folders. Folders only will copy the shortcuts and they do not carry content. Value and Final Thoughts If size is a concern, you may want to pay extra to have a really sleek hard drive that can fit in small places without getting damaged. However, the price on this drive is a little high. I feel the cost is due to a sleek, streamlined design as opposed to hardware. Yes, the USB 3.0 is nice, but it is becoming the norm. However, 500GB is a LOT of space unless you are downloading and copying tons of movies to your computer. For most people the space is adequate and will be for a long time.
5|This drive is very smooth, thin (at least twcie thinner than comparable USB portable drive), much lighter and looks very nice! Please note that the speed of transfer depends on the drive's rotation speed, USB standard level, and the compouter's USB standard level as well. So, even though this is a USB 3.0 drive, you will not get USB 3 speeds if your computer has USB 2 port.
5|Coming from USB-2 and moving to USB-3 is a really nice experience, things that took 20 minutes now fly by in 4 minutes. Putting aside USB-3 improvements in speed and just looking at the Seagate drive, it is really nice and compact design made partially out of a solid black anodized aluminum. It feels to me to be about the same weight as my Iphone 5 so it's really easy to travel around with, let's just say it will fit in your front pocket easily. About my only complaint is that they don't include a little protective case like some of the other drives on the market, that way I could carry the drive and cable together with no problems. Overall it's a very nice drive for transferring files from one location to another or as a external backup drive. I highly recommend it!
4|I have owned a nearly identical WD (Western Digital) drive like this for about 5 years now. Works flawlessly except for one little problem. I seem to have lost/misplaced it! Being black in color it has somehow turned into a Chameleon that I have now spent 2+ months searching for without success....Which brings me to this little jewel. I thought my WD drive was tiny. This drive makes it look like a pig. This is only about 1/4" thin and about the size of a playing card. I was honestly stunned when I took it out of it's box. Installed the software on my Windows 7 machine and now my new Windows 8 machine in just a couple minutes. I ordinarily HATE included software with hard drives but wanted to try it before deleting it to honestly be able to review it. Turns out I LOVE this software and it will be kept. This software is called Dashboard. It even includes several built in videos that show you how to use every feature of this dive. It gives me all the assorted choices on doing backups, is clear & EASY to understand and use. FINALLY.... I have spent years being frustrated by overly complicated back up software that in the end, never much helped me when I got into trouble and needed bailing out. The portion of the software I found most unusual and enjoyable to use is for Saving items shared on Social Networking. It asked for my permission to access my Facebook, Twitter & YouTube accounts, I gave it and entered my passwords. I was actually shocked to see some of the pictures & videos I had placed on my Facebook page years ago & had forgotten about. I "adjusted" that to hopefully erase some of my "tantrums" I unleash when upset at things I encountered in the past like issues regarding Our War's etc. As a USMC combat Veteran I often take issue with some things and fly off the handle just a bit when faced with some opinions I disagree with (I am better now thank goodness). Anyway, it is a great tool for me anyway. Now the YouTube software I do NOT care for since while it does let me upload directly etc, it lacks all the options I choose when doing it directly. I want to pick & choose a title for my videos as well as set my preferences when I upload as to who can comment, vote etc. I also want to choose what category it plays in etc. So, while it offers this feature to at least upload, it is a bare bones tool that still forces me to go back into my account manually anyway so that I can set these items to MY preferences. As a result, I won't be using this feature but nice that it is there I suppose? I would give this 5 stars except for this. My past experience with Seagate drives I own for my Macs (the STCB3000900 and STCB2000100). I have their 2 TB AND 3TB drives. On both I have had endless crashes, freezes, unmounting, etc. I simply have them now sitting out in my garage until I find out how to take them apart and securely DESTROY any of my data that they may still contain. I have used more profanity against these drives than I ever did against the enemy when fighting in Wars......Now this drive is flawless so far. If it lives on and performs anything like my missing WD pocket drive, I will update as warranted. If this goes the way of my past Seagate drives? Well, then I will fully test the Amazon censors with my downgrade:-) So far, I simply love this beautiful little drive. I am even planning on painting it a bright pearl white or candy apple red to make it harder to misplace.
4|Out of the box, my Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive was simple to use and defect free. The software that come with it is optional - the drive will work whether you choose to load it or not - the Windows 7 PC found the drive without any issues. It really is amazing how slim this drive is when you compare it to the previous generation of portable hard drives that came out ten years ago. While I love the drive, the software is another issue. Does anyone really need software on a portable drive to aid them in posting to social networking sites and then back up that content? Really? It seems to me that most social networking sites are used through smart phones and touch screen devices, which are aside from this drive's strengths. My feeling about the software is that Seagate is trying very hard to remain relevant in a shifting world of cloud based computing. So this drive works best for desk top and lap top users who want a back up and storage device that they can get their hands on. And in that, I like this unit very much.
5|I've been so impressed with this drive. It's tiny, it's fast and it's just the right amount of space for me. I'm not the sort of reviewer who'll do speed and performance measurements on a hard drive. I always appreciate reading those reviews, but tend to review more from the user experience. So I don't know if the drive is as fast as it's *supposed* to be, but I can tell you it's WAY faster than my USB 2.0 drive. I've had no problems using it with my MacBook Air. The 500GB size is perfect for me, because it allows me to do a complete system backup. I will note that it takes a bit more setup for folks on a Mac because it comes formatted for NTFS. But after re-format, it worked perfectly. Note: the only performance measurement I did was to time how long it took to copy over my media library. 177GB in 18 minutes. That's a little slower than it should be, but it took over an hour when I did it on USB 2.0, so for me it was a huge performance gain. I guess my only complaint is that I can't find a case small enough for the drive!
5|In my apartment, we have four computers - I have a desktop and a laptop and my roommate has two laptops. We have five portable hard drives between us, but when I saw this model available on Amazon Vine I opted to get it for my roommate, who has been wanting a new one. The first and most important feature of the Seagate Portable dive is its speed. My roommate says that it is able to back-up his entire hard drive in minutes, twice as fast as any of the other machines in the house. Also, he is an actor and film producer. He likes the way he is able to edit film clips directly on the Seagate drive without first downloading them to his laptop. Yet the Seagate drive is slim and compact, making it easy to take along in your shirt pocket. Very dependable and well-made, the Seagate portable drive is highly recommended.
5|This is by far the fastest and sleekest drive I have owned. The transfer rates are phenomenal compared to my Seagate FreeAgent Go model that I have been using for the past two years. Great for backups, additional storage, or for localized cloud storage.
5|When I think back to what external hard drives used to be (I remember one we nicknamed Brick) and hold this little baby in my hand it makes me laugh. Fast, nice to look at and VERY portable. Works great as an on the go device with laptops or just as a great little external drive for your home desktop computer.
4|500 GB is a lot of GB and I'm old enough to still be amazed that a drive that will hold this much data can be dropped in my pocket. It's only slightly bigger than my smart phone. It installs easily, with no fuss or muss. Just plug and use. I'm not a "geek" so I can't wax eloquent about any possible more esoteric or technical features, but... I'm not a geek and it works, which is all I really require of a piece of technical equipment. Thanks, Amazon. I like this product a lot.
5|I have several USB 3.0 Seagate external and portable hard drives. All of them have provided excellent functionality, helping me to back up files quickly and easily. The Seagate Slim has a remarkably small form factor. It is approximately the size of an iPod Touch, making it is easy to carry around. I use the Seagate Slim as if it was the equivalent of a 500GB thumb drive: it is that small, fast and convenient. However, I do not use the included back-up software, which I find slower to use (and more complex) than simply copying files directly using Windows. The Slim appears to be completely vibration-free, does not heat perceptibly, and is so thin that I often forget that its a hard drive rather than a flash drive. If you require portability in a hard drive, the Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 hard drive is probably the all-around best option.
5|This is a wonderful piece of technology, and drives like this are quickly going to make other drives obsolete. My only complaint is that the drive isn't large enough to back up my whole computer yet (as I have a 1 terabyte hard drive with thousands of music files, and home videos and the like). In a year, however, I imagine I will ditch my other bulky drives and move exclusively to drives like this one. Wow. *** NO EXTERNAL POWER REQUIRED. I love this. I don't need a long cord, or a large power supply, like my other older 500 GB drive. This plugs right into my computer's USB port, and the port provides all the power it needs --just like a jump drive. And there is nothing external to lose (with the exception of the USB cable, which is provided). Fantastic. *** READY TO GO OF THE BOX. You don't need to load any software. You just plug and play. It also comes with an 18 inch USB cable so you don't need to get that separately. *** SUPERSLIM. This is the thinnest drive I have seen so far with this storage. *** PERFECTLY PORTABLE. Since it is so thin, and doesn't require any exterior cables, it fits right in your pocket. *** NO VIBRATIONS OR HEAT. It is entirely quiet and doesn't require a fan to dissipate any heat. Very nice. *** USB 3.0. If your computer supports this, then you are in luck; this drive supports 3.0 technology -which is super fast. If not, you are fine, as it is also USB 2 compatible. ** WELL BUILT. The top half is brushed metal, while the bottom half is plastic. There is only one output -just the USB port. ** LIGHT. Since the bottom half is plastic this takes away a lot of the weight, and it is lighter than I thought it would be. * INDICATOR LIGHT. When the drive is plugged in there is an unobtrusive white light a centimeter long, but razor thin. This helps to know that the drive is appropriately connected and powered. It is on top, too, which is nice, because the drive is so thin that a light on the side would be difficult to see. ** INEXPENSIVE. For the entire package this drive is pretty affordable. And wait a year and I bet the price will drop another 40%, as this type of drive becomes the standard. * BACKUP SOFTWARE. The drive comes with backup software and some technology to back up to the cloud -particularly social media files. I don't use the software, but it is worth checking out. CONS: - NOT 500 GB. When I looked at the drive I saw that there was only 465 GB Free. 10% of the space is already being used by the data on there. If this is an issue you can delete the installer files on there, which you don't need (unless you want to load their cloud management software). Overall, I love this drive. A leap forward over drives a few years old. Highly recommended.
5|This hard drive worked perfectly with my old Compaq PC. I also got the silver drive for my mac running OS 10.6. It is incredibly compact, so it is easy to either connect it to your PC for extra storage, or stick it in your pocket as a portable storage unit. It does not require an external power source, which is definitely a plus. Boot up and driver installation was quick (under 60 seconds), even with my outdated PC. Uploading and downloading files to this hard drive is sufficiently fast when using the usb 2.0 connection. Best when using the 3.0 connection if one is available of course. Overall I would recommend this product to anyone who needs more hard drive capacity and doesn't want it to take up a lot of room.
5|When I reviewed the previous generation of the Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive for Mac (STCF500400), I thought it was as small as a portable hard disk drive could get. Now, Seagate has out-done themselves with this latest generation of Slim 500GB USB 3.0 HDD. The new Slim 500GB HDD is truly thinner, smaller and lighter than the previous 500GB model. The casing features anodized aluminum for strength and beauty. The product looks professionally and aesthetically crafted. It has the sleek look that Apple would have built. The power/activity light is a lit through a slit in the casing. The drive is very power efficient. It generates hardly any heat and the casing is cool to the touch. It is also very quite and barely audible during heavy usage. It can really slip into my shirt's front pocket and is hardly noticeable in there. As a Windows drive, it's preformatted with NTFS. It can be used on a Mac by installing the supplied/downloadable NTFS driver. The Mac version is preformatted with HFS+ and can be used on Windows using their HFS+ driver. I have both drives and they are my top choice when I need to transfer large amount of data between my Macbook and Windows machine (instead of using the network). The drive comes with Seagate Dashboard preloaded. It lets you protect, share and save your social network contents. I didn't review it since I have no use for it, and I use Time Machine to do my backups. The Slim 500GB HDD is truly an ultra compact portable drive. It comes with a standard 2-year warranty. It is compatible between Mac's and PC's using the appropriate Seagate driver. This is my favorite go-to portable drive now.
5|I have four Seagate hard drives. They are all wonderful. I've never had any problems with using them. The smallest, most compact one that I own is the new Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive, STCD500102. It is approximately the same thickness as my other Seagate Slim Portable Hard Drive, the STBE500100 ]. The STCD500102 is shorter than my STBE500100 because it doesn't have a GoFlex USB 3.0 adapter that can be removed and exchanged with another adapter that can give faster file transfer performance such as the Seagate FreeAgent GoFlex Upgrade Cable FireWire 800 - STAE102 (Seagate FreeAgent GoFlex Upgrade Cable FireWire 800 - STAE102). Within five minutes after opening its box, I was using my new STCD500102. Very stylish and attractive, it is a great plug-and-play hard drive. After inserting its standard 3.0 USB cable, I connected the STCD500102 to my PC. A blue light in the upper left-hand corner of the hard drive told me it was working. Within a few seconds, the AutoPlay menu popped up. Immediately, I closed it and right-clicked on the START icon in the lower left-hand corner of my screen. Then I clicked on COMPUTER. A screen appeared displaying all the drives on my PC. I clicked on the icon for my STCD500102, which looks just like the hard drive itself. Immediately, I began creating folders and quickly transferring files from my other Seagate FreeAgent Hard Drive, the STAA750101 ], which was also connected to my PC. I never clicked on the Seagate Dashboard Installer icon and launched the Seagate Dashboard which provides backup for photos that are downloaded to one's social network such as Facebook, Flickr, etc. I am not on a social network, yet. In the future, I may install the Seagate Dashboard. It is nice to know that I always have this option. I am not required to make a decision the first time I use the STCD500102. Also preloaded onto the STCD500102 is the NTFS driver which allows one to use the STCD500102 interchangeably between a PC and a Mac. I don't own a Mac; however, I may purchase one in the future to use as a backup in case my PC fails. It is also nice to know that I can install the NTFS driver in the future. If I do, I will call the nice people at technical support, 1.800.SEA.GATE, to assist me. I called them when I had to reformat my huge SeaGate 3TB Desk Top Hard Drive ] in order to operate it with my PC. The gentleman walked me through the process, which required no more than ten to fifteen minutes to accomplish. I was ecstatic with their free service. All I had to give them was the S/N of the assembly which can be found on the hard drive's box or on the hard drive itself. One of the first things I did after receiving my new STCD500102 and ensuring that it was operating properly was order a case to protect it. I chose the same CaseCrown Brushed Hard Cover Case I bought for my STBE500100 ]. It has plenty of room for the hard drive, 3.0 USB cable, quick start guide and two-year warranty booklet. The case will give me confidence that my STCD500102 is being protected whenever I take it home with me for the holidays. The case fits perfectly inside my JanSport backpack. As I stated earlier, I now own four hard drives from SeaGate. None of them have ever crashed, become corrupted, or died; the computer continues to recognize all of them. I have learned from SeaGate certain practices to follow to keep from damaging a SeaGate hard drive or any other hard drive. When not being used, the hard drive should be kept in a protective case. Never drop, step on or violently shake the hard drive. Never use a long cable to connect it to the PC or Mac. Only use the cable that came with it or a standard one--never one that is six foot or longer (Belkin Pro Series USB Device Cable 16 Feet). This is one of those rare cases where longer is not always better. Furthermore, never connect the hard drive to your PC or Mac via a hub (Belkin High-Speed USB 2.0 7-Port Hub). I did this with several flash drives and they became corrupted. It won't always happen but it might. Also, I just recently learned that before disconnecting the hard drive, one should right-click on the hard drive's icon and choose "Safely Remove." This will always ensure that files are not corrupted. If a flash card, flash drive or hard drive becomes corrupted and needs reformatting, everything stored on it will be wiped off. Joseph B. Hoyos
5|Six months ago I had purchased "Seagate Backup Plus 1 TB USB 3.0 Portable External Hard Drive STBU1000100" and overall I was quite pleased with it (and I still am.) Then came this smaller (only 500 GB) but also a slimmer drive, which for all practical purposes is the same product. In fact, the Amazon review I wrote six months ago for the bigger drive largely applies here too. Fear not, I am not going to make you look it up, I will just plagiarize some of it and copy here when relevant. I tested the speed of the drive first. I was quite pleased about the transfer speed. While transferring a very large file (almost 5 GB) from my hard disk to the portable drive, I hit an average speed of 20 Megabytes per second, and peak speed of 28 Megabytes per second. You will not get a similar transfer speed over a network, unless you have a Gigabyte (wired) LAN. I do, but even then the transfer only averaged 16 Megabytes per second. This is the so called network transfer overhead. I do not use portable hard drives for computer backups. (If all you need is to back up your files on some computer or computers, get a desktop drive. They hold more data and they are faster, and they are also cheaper per Megabyte.) I move my portable drives amongst many computers, some at home, some at work. As such, the portable drives have to interface to multiple different OS: several flavors of Linux and Windows both, and they need to be partitioned accordingly. If you don't care about partitioning your disk, you can stop reading here. My first task was to partition the slim drive to four: one NTFS, two Linux Ext3, and one FAT32 partition. I did that by using "Paragon Partition Manager", and it took a little over an hour. Afterwards, I tested it on different OS. All Windows flavors auto mounted the NTFS partition, and two out of three ignored the FAT32 partition initially. Then I went back to the Partitioning program, and I assigned a Windows drive letter to the FAT32 partition, after which all Windows flavors auto mounted it by simply detecting it. Windows OS (of any flavor) ignores Linux partitions. In contrast, in Linux I can access (read/write) all partitions, but they are not automatically mounted under /media in some Linux flavors. When that happened, I had to mount them by hand; no big deal, but a nuisance. I also encountered another nuisance, which was also common to the larger drive I had bought six months ago: Windows' "safely remove hardware" tool was unable to unmount the partitioned disk. In fact Seagate support personnel had commented on my original Amazon review telling me pedantically: "If Vista is not allowing ejection of the drive by the safely remove icon it generally indicates that some other program is trying to access the drive at the time of the ejection request." No kidding! But of course there was no other program (or open window) which was trying to access the drive at the time. This was a completely useless (but well intentioned) comment. I think the answer is somehow related to partitioning. This problem does not occur if you never partition the drive. I will ignore the minor nuisances, and give it five stars!
5|Portable drives keep getting more portable, but this one takes the cake. It literally fits in a front shirt pocket. It is also an extremely aesthetically pleasing unit. Its surface has a very modern anodized finish; its access light is a white LED that glows brighter elegantly as it is used; and even its logo is very discreetly located. Unfortunately, not all of my laptops have the blue USB 3.0 ports, but its speed literally blows me away when connected to one that does. Note that I did not use the Seagate Dashboard software - as I have alternative backup software installed.
5|I have several external drives but this is my new favorite for several reasons. The slim size, quiet and fast operation are not even my favorite parts. Like others have said this little drive is about the size of my iPhone5. It's wider and shorter, but the same thickness and weight. The short cord is super because it's long enough to do the job without all that extra in the way. The drive is completely silent when in operation, but a small light lets you know it's doing its thing. Mostly I don't install the software that comes with external drives and start my backups from the computer or just copy the files I want saved, but because this was a Vine item and I wanted to do a thorough review, I did install the software, and I'm delighted. The dashboard is simple with only three options, two of which are for uploading and saving pictures and videos from your social networking accounts on Facebook and Flickr. I don't store my pictures that way so had none to try those features with, but they looked simple and straightforward. The thing I love is the third option, the backup/restore feature. I set up my backup from the clear choices given and started it. It finished sooner than I expected and I was able to find the specific files by drilling down through the folders on the drive afterward, so if I wanted to get at them manually, I could. I don't leave the drive plugged in, but a few days later I plugged it in again and started the backup again. Happily, it backed up only the files that had changed since the last go rather than repeating the whole thing. That was done in a flash. Maybe other drive software does that too, but this was so easy and fast, I couldn't be more pleased. The cable is USB 3 compatible but my computer ports are USB 2. It worked just fine with the USB 2. Normally I use my desktop computer but will be taking my mini-laptop on a trip soon. I'd been planning to make a list of files I wanted to take and transfer them, but now I'll just take this small drive and know I'll have all the files right there without even having to think about it. I'm really pleased with this drive and recommend it.
5|I tested this Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 portable hard drive on a HP Pavilion 14-b010us Sleekbook which has both a USB 2.0 port and a USB 3.0 port (I tested with both). My operating system is Windows 8. I used the free "HD Speed" software to test read and write capacity. Pros: * Front shirt pocket size * About 5 times faster than USB 2.0 if you have a USB 3.0 port * included USB 3.0 cable is right size at 18 inches Cons: * None, really. Some software issues, but you choose (discussed below) To use a USB 3.0 device to its fullest capacity you need to have a USB 3.0 port. You can still use this with USB 2.0 ports, but read/write speeds between the two ports is about 5:1 (i.e., this runs about five times faster on USB 3.0 than 2.0). I tested this on each type of port on the same machine: my laptop. USB 3.0 Read Speed = 140 Mbytes/second USB 2.0 Read Speed = 26.4 Mbytes/second USB 3.0 Write Speed = 100 Mbytes/second USB 2.0 Write Speed = 19.5 Mbytes/second My built in hard drive had a read speed of 162 Mbytes/second so this is very close to the same speed as my built-in hard drive. Note that USB 3.0 specs tout that this should be 10x faster than USB 2.0, but due to all sorts of hardware issues nobody gets that kind of increase in the real world. Five times faster is VERY good and noticeable. The included Seagate Dashboard was cleanly removed after testing, so give it a try and get rid of it if you don't like it. I actually DID like it but uninstalled it as being redundant with my current setup. The Dashboard has a standard "back up your files" feature, but doesn't allow you to create an image disk (heck, Windows 8 actually hides how to do that, so no biggie). To uninstall in Windows 8 go to the Control Panel and choose the "Uninstall Software" link. The hard drive is fully useable with and without the Dashboard software. The Dashboard's link to your social network is a promising, but unfortunately limited, feature. You can only download from your Facebook and Flickr accounts. I liked capturing all of my photos and videos from my facebook account, all nicely arranged in the appropriate folders. You can only upload to Facebook, Flickr, and Youtube. Since I do most of my heavy lifting using Google this feature would be underutilized. I also liked the shorter cable which makes portability nicer. If you read somewhere that this is a proprietary cable that you should protect and not lose, it is NOT proprietary. You can get standard USB 3.0 replacements for less than $10 such as this AmazonBasics USB Cable - 3.0 A Male to Micro B (6 Feet / 1.8 Meters). Note that this IS different than the USB 1.0 and 2.0 cables which you will NOT be able to use with this device. An easy 5 out of 5 stars for the hardware product itself. Try out the Dashboard, included for free, and you might find it useful.
5|This is a small, light weight hard drive that is about as portable as a hard drive can be. For a traveler this is a plus because it takes very little space in your computer case and adds very little to the weight you have to lift to get the case in the luggage bin. The hard drive is plug and play, however, I found to have the computer recognize it I had to plug it in while the computer was running. I first tried plugging it in and then starting the computer, but it was not recognized. The drive is very quiet and when holding it in my hand, I feel almost no vibration. The cable is 18", a good size for my use, but what attaches to the hard drive is proprietary, so the cable can't be replace with a longer one, or in case of damage, with a "standard" USB cable. One thing I especially like is that this Seagate drive has a 2-year warranty. I have another Seagate drive and it has only a 1-year warranty. I realize the length of the warranty is not a guarantee, but I tend to believe that it does give some indication of the manufacturers confidence in its product. I know that these days many are looking of a hard drive with 1 TB or more capacity, but if you are looking for a 500 GB drive, this would be a good choice
5|If you want a very small portable hard drive, this one is really great, though you do pay a premium for the small size. I also have a regular Seagate portable drive. This one is noticeably smaller; maybe 1/3 thinner as well as slightly smaller in the other dimensions. It is literally smaller than my smartphone. USB 3.0 is very fast if you have a newer computer that supports it; which is great for copying lots of files or large files like videos. Like most hard drives (portable or not), this drive comes with pre-installed backup software that most people will delete. I wasn't interested, so I deleted it. The software is not necessary for basic operation of the drive.
5|This hard drive is only slightly thicker than my iPhone 5. It's lighter than other portable drives and doesn't need external power. I'd like to have several of these. It uses the Micro-B USB 3.0 connector on the drive side, but I've started to accumulate some of those cables so that's not such a problem. I didn't use the included software. I reformatted the drive for HFS+ and haven't had any problems.
5|An excellent, lightning-fast, plug and play drive with lightning fast (USB 3.0, firewire)... even with USB 2.0 this drive seems much faster than any other external drive I've used. The drive is the smallest drive I've ever seen - much smaller than the Western Digital My Passport drive I bought a couple of months ago. No external power supply required - it gets is power from the USB port. I've bought and returned countless backup solutions, and am currently running a Western Digital My Book Live 2 with their hideously buggy "Smartware" solution. Most manufacturers can get the hardware right -- but the software is where they stumble. Not Seagate... Software makes the difference - it is extremely intuitive and easy to use. The drive comes preloaded with videos that give you brief walk-throughs of how to set up and configure the backup software. I watched for a few moments (the only negative part of this review is that the woman they use in the videos is just a tad too perky, grated at my ears) and decided just to install the software and see how far I could get without reading the instructions. Minutes later the software installed, walked me through registration, rebooted my computer, and literally 5 minutes later I had backed up all the photos and videos on my Facebook page and had moved on to a backup of my computer. The backup is still running, but I like the progress indicator ( would be great to also see a % of the drive still free). Two nice things about this software that are different than my other similar programs: #1, the data on your backup drive (the Seagate) is NOT encrypted... so you can easily browse using Windows Explorer to the folders on the backup drive and copy individual files if you want to. Same with all your Facebook photos and videos... no need to perform a restore to copy those pictures/videos to your my pictures folder or your desktop. The other nice thing is that it performs a continuous backup, copying files as you make changes, so you can set it and forget it. The software is smooth and fast, really clean interface... I have written some SCATHING reviews of similar products on Amazon... I like this enough that I am going to check out Seagate's larger drives as well. If I run into problems I'll update this review, but right now I'm really happy with both the hardware and the software and can't rave enough about this drive!
5|I have used Seagate drives ever since I got into computers. It is the most trusted brand that I know and they are reliable. Usually the Computer dies before the Seagate drive does. I have these drives in different sizes depending on my need, but primary I use this to transport data to and from the office. It is has a lot of storage for something so small. Also, it is on USB 3 so data transfer is really, really fast. I love it.
5|Very pleased with this lightweight and easy to travel with Seagate Slim 500GB Portable Drive. PROS: 1) Small and lightweight, easily tucks into my purse's rear pocket. (I put it into a sandwich sized ziplock bag to keep it clean and moisture away from the drive. 2) Speed: Faster than I would have thought! Well it is a smaller drive, however, I found it 25% to 30% percent faster for copying about 250gb of data compared to the same thing copying on my large desktop 1TB iOmega drive. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CONS: - Minor - Wish there was a drawstring bag or case, however, this is a superb smaller traveling bag! - Will not connect with any of my OTG Adapters for Tab 2 or GNote, S2 etc.(This is NOT the fault of the drive but a limitation to these devices as they will just accept flash drive sticks, mouse, keyboard, but this drive is kind of large)... Overall score: 4.98 stars and HIGHLY RECOMMENDED TO ALL!
5|I love this little drive. When I first opened it, I was really surprised just how slim it is. I have a WD Passport drive and this drive is about 1/3 as thick and about 1/4" narrower. It is slightly longer, but it's so small and light I really love it. It's plastic, but really solid feeling. The software it comes with is one of the most handy software packages I've seen on a portable drive. It has the standard backup software and uploads to your popular web sites, but a feature I really love is that it will download and backup photos you upload to Facebook or Flickr. So often I take a photo with my phone and upload it to facebook but never get around to syncing it with my computer. Now I have software that will automatically do that for me. It comes with the drive and usb cable but no carrying case :(
5|This Seagate drive is a great balance between value, size, and portability. I bought a similar hard drive about a year ago from another company with about 500 GB and it cost more, but was a good deal heavier than this unit. I travel a lot, so a few extra pounds or ounces less really makes a difference. Moreover, this drive has very fast transfer speeds with the USB 3.0 cable. Definitely recommended.
5|They aren't kidding when they say this is a slim model. It's extremely thin and light. It's also super fast due to the USB 3.0. There isn't a whole lot more to say about it; it does what it's supposed to do. Highly recommended.
4|I have a previous version of Seagate Slim drive Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive for Mac (STCF500400) and I loved it's slim size and wrote a review about it. I was expecting the same size with this one, but surprisingly it turned out to be even slimmer, sleeker, smaller, and lighter. It's plug-and-play, so nothing to complain. The transfer speed is fine. I dropped in a 300mb video clip and it gets there in less than 10 seconds. I usually don't measure the exact transfer rate unless it's so slow that it bothers me. The drive heats up only mildly, even cooler than my Toshiba external drive. So you won't be annoyed by a hot brick sitting in front of you on a hot summer day. Seagate is also smart to include a few video clips to teach users how to set up. The software included, Seagate Dashboard, is nice for those who are not geeks, but for someone like me, I am disappointed that it doesn't allow me to backup to any drive other than this Seagte Slim and their Cloud Storage service. Just by allowing us to add a network mapped drive would make it much more convenient. After all, my network storage is also made by Seagate: Seagate Business Storage 2-Bay 4TB Network Attached Storage (STBN4000100). Even though the backup software includes backing up to Cloud Storage, there is no way for me to sign up for the service if I don't already have one. I did a few minutes of Googling and couldn't find any way to sign up for Cloud Storage service. There is only a login page and password discovery page. So the software seems to be for the dummies, but not so when it comes to Cloud Storage. Plus, I read the documentation and it says that, even if you have a Cloud Storage account, the backup software will not backup for you if you don't have a compatible Seagate Slim drive plugged in. I don't like that kind of stingy narrow attitude. So my home data will not be backed up to the cloud, if I left my drive at my office? That's ridiculous! But, the software is optional, so that shouldn't affect my love for the hardware. I have my own backup software and I don't care about this free software. Still, I removed one star for including the software with the silly and intentional limitations. One aspect of reviewing a hard drive is its life and reliability, for which I have to wait and see. For now, I love the size, weight, and overall performance of the hardware.
3|Here are the impressions of a non-techy about the Seagate Slim 500 gig external hard drive. This drive is amazingly small - about 3 by 4 inches and 1/4 inch thick. Nice - because it doesn't take up much shelf or desk space and is easy to carry around. I like to take a backup drive with me whenever I travel with my computer and this drive is the perfect size for that. The USB cord that it comes with is approximately 18 inches long (give or take). It also comes packed with a small instruction pamphlet describing how install the backup software called the Seagate Dashboard that comes pre-loaded on the drive. Its a pretty simple and straightforward process so there is not a lot to the instructions. There are also 4 short instruction videos pre-loaded on the drive: "Introducing Seagate Backup Plus Video"; "Protecting Your Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial"; "Saving Social Media Files With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial"; and "Sharing To Social Media Sites With Seagate Dashboard Tutorial". If you watch them they give a pretty good overview of the features available with the Dashboard software. I usually don't load the software that comes with hard drives, but I decided to give the Seagate Dashboard a try. I am using a laptop with Windows 8 operating system. Basically you just plug in the drive, navigate to the installation file and double click it. That brings up the registration screen, the software loads, and then you must re-start the computer to finish the install. It took maybe 5 minutes and installed with no problems. Once the software is installed you open it by double clicking its desktop icon. From the home screen you get 3 choices: Protect (backup and restore your data); Share (upload your pictures and videos to your Facebook, Flickr and YouTube accounts); and Save (Download pictures and videos from your Facebook and Flickr accounts). Protect: You can schedule backups at specific intervals like hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, etc. Or you can select continuous backup which basically creates backups in real time as you add or change files. If you don't want to set a regular schedule you can instead click the "snapshot" button to start a backup whenever you want. By default the backup includes anything that is not a system or program file but you get the option to pick the files you want to include. The first time you run backup takes a little longer because it is backing up all the files, after the first time its faster because its only backing up new or changed files. I have the drive connected to a USB 3 port and the first time I ran backup it took about 20 - 30 minutes to backup roughly 100 gig of data files. I selected "continuous" and keep the drive connected all the time. I haven't really noticed any lag time or slow down using the continuous backup feature. The drive comes with a free one-year subscription to the Nero "cloud" drive which you can also select as a backup location. You get 4 gig free for 12 months - after that you have to pay for the subscription. You can also buy extra space. You have to create an account and set a password. I did set up the account, but haven't used this feature and don't really plan to in the future. Share: You can use the Dashboard to upload pictures and video to social media sites: Facebook, Flickr and YouTube. I don't use Facebook or Flickr (hard to believe in this day and age, I know) but I do use YouTube, so I gave it a try. From Dashboard click the Facebook, Flick, or YouTube icon. The first time you access one of these sites you have to enter your account log-in information and give the software permission to access your account. Here is how it worked for YouTube. Once logged in it brought up a file manager screen where I could browse to and select a video on either my Seagate external hard drive or my computer hard drive. Once the file is selected you choose one of the standard YouTube categories for it. Then the file uploads. After uploading the video using the Seagate Dashboard, I deleted it from YouTube and uploaded it again using the standard upload directly from the YouTube site - just to see the difference. First of all the video took longer to upload using the Seagate Dashboard than it did directly from the YouTube website. I suppose that might not be the fault of the software - maybe the internet was just running slower when I used the Dashboard, but I did upload them within 1/2 hour of each other. The biggest fault I found using the Seagate Dashboard to upload videos is that you don't get any of the options that you do when you upload directly from the YouTube site. When you upload a video directly from the YouTube site you get a lot of options. You can enter a Title for the video, you can enter a description, and enter tags (e.g. Chicago, dogs) so that the video comes up in searches, you can pick a thumbnail to use for the video, select a privacy setting (public or private) and select a category for the video. When you use the Dashboard, it automatically uses the name of the file as the title of the video (you don't get to choose). The only choice the Seagate Dashboard gives you is to select a category for the video - that's it. It also automatically posts it as a public video. You don't get any other choices or options. Once you have uploaded a video using the Dashboard you can always log on to your YouTube account directly from the YouTube website and edit these choices, but why bother with 2 steps if you can just do all this directly on YouTube in the first place? Given the results of this test, I would not use the Seagate Dashboard to upload videos to YouTube. I can't speak for how Facebook or Flickr uploads work because I don't use Facebook or Flick. Save: You can use this to save files from your social media sites (for example, save the pictures you posted on Facebook). The only 2 social media sites you can do this for with the Seagate Dashboard are Facebook and Flickr. YouTube is not an option. I don't use Facebook or Flickr, so I couldn't test this. I am disappointed that saving files posted to my YouTube account was not an option. Overall I would give the drive 3 stars. What I liked most was the size and speed - its small and very fast. I give the Dashboard software mixed reviews. The backup function seems to work great but the Share and Save options left something to be desired. I would have rated the drive higher if it hadn't been for the software. I just got the drive, so I can't speak for durability, but it seems like well built little drive.
4|I got this to replace a Western Digital Passport that would often disappear from My Computer, take a while to display files or refused to be ejected because it was always "on" even though nothing was accessing it. None of the same problems with the Seagate Slim plus it doesn't vibrate like the Passport did. Size wise, it's certainly thinner than the Passport but the exterior dimensions are a bit larger so it's a wash for size. It comes with a cable - not a standard USB since the connector to the drive is different. Seemed much faster than my Passport (both are/were connected to USB 3.0 ports on a hub). There's a dashboard application (Mac and Windows) on the drive along with a bunch of how to videos and other stuff which take up about half a gig. The dashboard includes a backup utility and will connect to Flickr or Facebook so you can post directly from the drive. One other feature is the "save" function which will grab a copy of any photos you post on FB/Flickr including any from other locations (phone, another computer...) and save it to the Seagate - essentially a backup of your social sites photos. I didn't install it since I have a solid state drive laptop and space is at a premium but it sounds a lot better than the normal backup utilities on portable drives. Deducted one star for the price (less slim drives are cheaper for the amount of space) but as long as I don't have the problems I did with the Passport, I'll consider it worth the price.
4|A nice, slim USB 3.0 drive. My review points are the same as for my other Seagate drive. Wonderfully slim with a nice finish. This drive has worked well with no problems so far. The only issue I have is with the backup software. The software is easy to install and use. However, there are a couple of quirks. For regular backups of regular stuff, the software is OK. But if you want to create a custom backup plan, the list of file on the right when you click a folder on left does not have a scrollbar (the folder list does). Also, there does not seem to be a way to select hidden directories, such as AppData. So there seems to be an obstacle to backing up, say, your iPhone or iPad backups. This is bad. Also, if you press Settings while setting up a custom plan, all your selections are lost. Idiots.
5|This nice looking drive seems very solid with good build quality. I connected using the provided USB cable and it was up and running in a flash. The Seagate Dashboard software is on the drive along with 4 tutorial videos - a nice touch. The drive is very stylish with a sleek, cool appearance. It's basically silent and very fast on 3.0 and runs full speed on 2.0 as well (i.e. as much as 2.0 will support). The Dashboard software has many nice features, though I don't use this type of software much myself, it supports cloud storage and local scheduled full and real-time backups. It comes formatted for NTFS by default. All in all, this seems like a great USB 3.0 (i.e. fast!) external hard drive. It is very portable, well designed, and ready to go. Update: I did a 300 GB backup with no problems. Drive got warm, not hot, a good sign. When you plug this drive in it becomes "ready" faster than any other drive I've used, almost instantly.
5|This Seagate slim hard drive is remarkably thin. It looks great in black. Overall, they did a wonderful job with the design even down to the LED indicator--a subtle line on the top left corner of the device. I mention this first because you're likely looking at slim drives for their design, not their utility. Slightly larger drives will save you a bit of money (Seagate's regular-sized 500GB goes for $60--$25 less--at the time of this review) and run a bit faster. If you want something small and nice looking, this one certainly delivers. You'll pay more for it, but you'll get it. In terms of function, if your computer supports USB 3.0 you can get some pretty fast speeds. I'm not set up to do benchmarks on my drives, but I copied a 1.63 GB in about 10 seconds. That's more than fast enough for my needs and comparable to a standard-sized 2.5" Western Digital USB 3.0 hard drive that I've been using. I can't speak to how this drive performs over the long term, however, as I've only had it for a few days. I stopped using Seagate drives awhile back because their reliability rating dropped quite a bit (right about when they purchased Maxtor, oddly enough), but that was a long time ago. I've only stuck with Western Digital because I haven't had a single problem since making that switch. That said, I don't want to give the impression that Seagate is unreliable but that I just don't know. You should check other reviews for that information. As for everything else, the drive delivers.
5|Please note that this review is primarily for those people whose computers use a GNU/Linux operating system. Without a doubt, this Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive - Black (STCD500102) is the smallest and slimmest hard drive I have ever gotten. I also got the Seagate Slim 500 GB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive for Mac (STCF500102), essentially the same drive, merely formatted differently. This review applies to both. They are less than 4½-inches long, about 3-inches wide, and about ?-inches in depth. That's small! The Windows version has a black aluminum front face, glossy black sides, and a black matte-finish metal back. The Mac version has a silver aluminum front face instead of the black one but the sides and back are the same. Thus the only real difference between them is the styling; if you're a Linux user who is going to reformat a drive, you can pick either of these depending on your color preference (or the price at the time you order). They're both really good-looking! Both appear to be very sturdy and make no noise that I can hear when in use. If you have a computer with USB 3.0 ports, with either of these drives you will get very high transfer speeds, typically far higher than that which can be obtained via USB 2.0. When I receive a drive, the first thing I do is to shake it to see if there are any loose parts (I actually did get such a defective drive once upon a time). There was nothing loose in either, so the next thing I do is to attach one at a time to my computer and reformat the drive to EXT4 (the Linux standard). (With the Windows version, there is only one partition to unmount so reformatting is straightforward. However on the Mac version, there are two partitions, both of which must be unmounted prior to the reformatting.) That partitioning achieved with nothing out of the ordinary, I then transfered some folders/files to each of the drives. That too proceeded uneventfully - and FAST. These drives are as good as any I have ever owned yet are much smaller in physical size. It is amazing to me what can be packed into such a small device! Both come only with a two-year warranty; this is somewhat disappointing as many of my other drives come with three-year warranties. Nonetheless, two years is better than the one year warranty with which some drives are now shipping. I like both of these drive very much and I highly recommend either one of them (or both!) to any GNU/Linux user who needs a backup for his/her folders, files, photos, music, etc. Thank you very much for reading this and for considering my opinions.
5|Having used the USB 2.0 external HDDs for decades, USB 3.0 is a welcome relief. Backs up are now super fast. The new generation of slim hard drives are very power efficient, you can use it all day without draining your laptop battery. The other benefit of the slim hdds are they dont produce any heat or vibrations. So you can put them inside enclosures or use it on a 24x7 basis on a NAS device. I was able to measure more than 100MBps of reads and writes using Intel NAS PT benchmarks. The speeds are good as internal HDDs. I have had several Segate HDDs in the past and so far none died within the first 5 years of usage. I expect similar reliability from these new generation of slim devices too.
5|Seagate's new slim drives make it easy to have plenty of memory in your pocket (or elsewhere) without spending a lot. I got the earlier version of this drive last year to use with my MacBook and I've been very happy with it (I like the compact form factor and USB power), so when my wife's iMac suddenly ran out of HD space, I realized that another portable drive would preclude my having to pay for labor or take apart the iMac myself. I attached the drive to the back of her iMac with double-sided tape, plugged it in, reformatted it, and moved some files. Bingo! And the bonus is, when we get rid of the iMac, we get to keep the expansion drive. This may not be exactly what Seagate had in mind when they developed their new line of slim drives, but isn't it nice that they're so versatile? Think outside the box, people!
5|I travel around the world, spending 1-2 months away from home at a time. Bringing digital media, (games, movies, tv shows, work documents), is an absolute requirement. The small size and storage capacity make this drive a perfect choice for me. While I have a 2TB external, it is too big to be pocketable; I feel so much better traveling with the seagate slim in my pocket as opposed to carrying a larger capacity drive but having to store it in my carry-on. Also, the USB 3.0 is so much faster than 2.0, I now despise waiting for my larger, clunkier external hard drives which are sadly limited to 2.0. I use this hard drive with a windows 7 and windows 8 computers without issues. It is also perfect for backing up files or transferring large bits between computers.
5|Thoroughly impressed with how small and FAST this drive is. Getting write speeds of over 140mb/s on USB3.0, so it's quick. The drive is super small and looks very well built. Great looking drive. A first for me is the fact that I like the included software- a lot. The Seagate dashboard is worth installing and looking at even if you're predisposed to not like "included software" with most hardware items- like I am. I gave it a shot based on high praises from trusted tech friends and wow. Seagate got the included software right with this drive. Excellent overall package and highly recommended. (The backup and share features are a photographer's dream.)
5|I have owned a few of these drives and they never fail to impress. They are nearly silent and come with some pretty useful software which will show you in great detail, how to use this drive, making the most of its features. Like the fact that the drive enters a sleep mode after a certain period to conserve electricity, this does not affect performance though as it quickly spins back to life once it is needed. I guess its hard to stand out in the world of hard drive production although this works fantastically well and has not given me a single problem, very highly recommended.
4|I've used this HDD on both Windows and Mac computers, it's preformatted to be used on both which is good: - nice design, plastic body with a metallic appearance - works with USB 2 and USB 3, the cable is included; the HDD is plug and play - note that the cable is the same as supplied with WD drives, USB at one end and what looks like SATA at the other (not micro-USB) - the device is powered by the USB cable therefore no additional power cables needed - very small and quiet unit, easily transportable and build quality feels good - there's an LED on top which indicates it's powered, but nothing to show it's being accessed (read/write), which I feel is a major let down - it's slimmer than other drives (e.g. WD) of the same size - at it's current price of 56GBP, I think it's a bargain - it does come with software already installed on the HDD (for backing up, etc.) but you don't need to install it which is a huge benefit in my view. I use this HDD as a backup drive but it'll work just as well as a portable storage unit. Overall I'm really pleased with it and would definitely recommend it to others.
1|Failed within 6 months, I have lost nearly everything. My mac has a small SSD and I used this to store my family photos and videos, ALL gone, the drive isn't detected. My 8 year old seagate FreeAgent go 500gb works flawlessly, unfortunately this was used only for playing movies via my TV and doesn't have important data, like the photos and videos I had of my little brother who died when he was 15 from Muscular Dystrophy. I have nothing to remember him by. Th drive was used lightly and always in a case and never left the house, it was working fine then just stopped. All seagate instructions to attempt to rectify it are useless. This is a faulty product by design... PLEASE READ THE OTHER 1 STAR REVIEWS, DO NOT RELY ON THIS DRIVE AS YOUR ONLY BACKUP!!! UPDATE: I took this drive apart carefully and took the Samsung branded HDD out, then connected it to my mac and pc using a USB 3.0 TO SATA adapter like this one and voila, it works flawlessly. The cheaply made USB controller in the casing is the part that fails easily. It seems Seagate want us thinking that we have lost our data so we pay for their £450 data recovery service. As soon as you connect via the sata to usb interface it works flawlessly like it did before the planned obsolescence, though you'll need to buy another enclosure, but at least you'll be able to get access to your data. http://www.amazon.co.uk/Startech-inch-Drive-Adapter-Cable/dp/B00HJZJI84/ref=sr_1_3?ie=UTF8&qid=1427022342&sr=8-3&keywords=usb+sata though cheaper ones are available too.
5|My daughter and I had that discussion last evening. She is in the "Mac World"; poor old dad stodgily plods along in the Windows based systems. Should one back up all one's precious files in "the cloud" or on a hard drive? Being a belt and suspenders sort of guy, I argued that the "vs." should be removed, replaced by an "and." And with the continued improvements in technology, both are readily viable solutions. Trust, if you will, some provider to operate and maintain "the cloud" securely for you, but also verify that you have the files available, even if the Internet is not, say in the Gila Wilderness. Of course, as my daughter perceptively noted, why would you want to look at your "files" in the Gila Wilderness? Seagate has produced a wonderful "belt and suspenders" type of external hard drive. First of all, although designed for the Mac World, with minor effort, it also can be configured to work with the Windows based systems. Please note the "also," meaning that it will function with both systems. It comes with a USB cable that will work with both the newer (and naturally faster) USB 3.0 ports as well as the older USB 2.0 ports. If you have a Mac, as the name of the product implies, simply pop it out of the box (and pry it out of the plastic), plug it in, and it works. If you have a Windows based system, you need to look at the directions, (conveniently printed in 327 languages- OK, I exaggerate slightly). You obtain Seagate's URL for the Windows "app," go there, download and install on your Windows system. It is about as straightforward and "foolproof" as possible. It took me a couple of minutes only to load it onto my "Dell Inspiron i3147-3750sLV 11.6-Inch 2 in 1 Convertible Touchscreen Laptop" which I also received via the Vine program. I then verified I could move a picture file from the Laptop to the Seagate hard drive via the USB 3.0 port. Yes, it was "lighting fast." I then attempted to connect the Seagate hard drive to my desk top Windows system, via the USB 2.0 port. It did not recognize the hard drive. So, that is the cautionary point. If you intend to use it for Windows systems, you have to download the app onto each computer you will use - no real problem though, at a couple of minutes per computer. And then I transferred a picture file via the USB 2.0 port - also, very fast. No secret there have been enormous improvements in technology. This drive is probably one one-hundredth the size of the clunky external hard drive I purchased seven years ago, and has a hundred thousand times the capacity. At 2 terabytes (that's a million million bytes), sometimes expressed as 10 to the 12th power, it could be used to store all the files both my daughter and I will ever produce. At a little more than 5 ounces, it is meant to be portable, whether your destination is the Gila Wilderness or the Calanque National Park. 5-stars, plus.
5|Really well made, comes loaded with good software and its pretty slim, its slimmer then most 2.5 hard drives and its a perfect fit for a PS4 upgrade since the PS4 uses a smaller sized 2.5 drive, so this is a cheap way to upgrade your PS4 to 2TB!! its cheaper then buying a hard drive to swap with your PS4 one and if you warm it up a bit and get a thin screw driver and guitar pick, you can easily remove the top metal cover to swap the Hard Drive with the PS4 one. So you can easily upgrade your PS4 to 2TB and most people on the internet destroy the case by forcing it off hard but if you get it warm to make the glue lose and gently lift the lid of slowly and watching out for the clips which the guides don,t tell you about then you can easily put the PS4 500GB hard drive into this case so you end up with a upgraded 2TB PS4 and a 500GB fast USB 3.0 hard drive in a nice case and if you back up the Seagate software to copy it over to the 500GB one then you have the added bonus of the tools. This drive is also very fast and really portable due to it's size, it has a metal top which does go alright with the look of a Mac, but it's not a perfect match since it is more of a brushed steel. So get this one if you're looking for a PS4 upgrade If you find this review useful, can you please click the helpful section below, Thank you.
4|Seagate have a great reputation (on the whole!) as a hard drive manufacturer, so how does this 4TB portable drive perform? Positives: ====== - Powered directly by the USB connection so no separate power supply/cable needed. - Extremely quiet in use, even when transferring data at full speed. - Smart case design, in a mix of gloss and matt finish black plastic. - Supports both USB 3.0 and 2.0 standards. - Comes with 200GB of free space on Microsoft's "OneDrive" cloud storage for 2 years, subject to online registration (which must be done by June 30th 2017). - Plug-and-play on Windows 8.1 64bit and Windows 10 64 bit (i.e. no drivers needed). - Fairly good average transfer speeds. When tested on a Windows 10 64bit PC with a USB 2.0 socket, I got an average of 27-28MB/sec write speed and 33-34MB/sec read speeds when transferring large files of around 4GB in size. That's nowhere near the theoretical limit for USB 2.0 of 60MB/sec, but that could be because the USB controller is optimised for the newer USB 3.0 standard. Other reviewers have reported much higher transfer speeds on newer USB 3.0 machines, so I can accept that this is just because my PC is getting old. These speeds are still pretty good. Negatives: ======= - Slightly bulkier than the average 2.5" USB drive - noticeably deeper by a few millimetres, probably because it has 2 disk platters inside rather than 1. I'd recommend the Black Case Logic QHDC-101 Hard Drive Case, which is a good (if slightly tight) fit for this drive with just enough room for the supplied USB cable. It's still very compact for a 4TB drive, but it won't fit in all standard cases so keep that in mind. - The supplied USB cable is very short at around 14" so it may not reach if your PC/laptop is not very accessible. - There are no rubber feet on the bottom of the case, so it will slide around easily on smooth surfaces and you should place it down gently to avoid any shocks. - The accompanying Seagate Dashboard software is lacking a key feature that I use all the time on my other drives: drive lock password protection. My old Western Digital My Book Elite Edition 1TB Drive from back in 2010 came with free WD SmartWare software that provides a simple drive lock capability that prevents the drive from even being recognised within Windows without the right password. Obviously you can still encrypt individual files using any standard software tool before copying to this drive, or encrypt the entire partition using something like TrueCrypt, but it seems ridiculous to me that a drive intended to store backups does not provide even basic password protection facilities. If you lose this drive or it gets stolen and you haven't taken your own encryption precautions, you can kiss your data goodbye. Disappointing. Notes: ==== - As with *all* hard drives, the free space reported within your operating system will be significantly less than the capacity described by the manufacturer, due to the different definitions of a Megabyte! Just Google it if you want the details. My Windows 10 64bit reports a capacity of 3.63TB for this drive, as opposed to the advertised capacity of 4TB. This is *not* a fault or anything specific to this drive. Summary: ====== This drive seems pretty good value for a 4TB portable (although you should check out the Samsung M3 Slimline 4TB USB 3.0 Portable Hard Drive if you want to compare a very similarly priced alternative). I didn't find any real problems or reasons to avoid this drive, other than the rather basic feature set of the Seagate Dashboard software with no built-in password protection. I think most people would be very satisfied with this drive as a day-to-day storage or backup solution. It's too soon to comment on robustness or longevity but assuming it lasts a few years this should be a good investment. It gets a solid 4 stars from me.
5|This external drive is very easy to dissemble and contains a Samsung Spinpoint drive M9T modal which currently retails at £79 by itself. I find the performance on my PS4 has increased with faster loading times and has less sluggish performance. You can put your PS4 stock hard drive into external enclosure case so you still end up with a USB 3 500GB hard drive. Here is a link to a video to show you how to extract the Samsung M9T hard drive https://goo.gl/NoL4uQ. I manage to get mine for £50 using Amazon prime now with £20 off your first prime now order. If they are in your area definitely check it out.
4|Carefully removed this drive from enclosure and fitted to PS4 with no problems. The standard internal drive from samsung is currently £150 more than the price of this. So great price with a little DIY. Only four stars as I wait for its durability but loading speeds are good.
5|A nice and compact 1Tb drive from one of the market leaders in the field. Having owned several Seagate drives over the years I can testify to the build quality and reliability of the brand. Obviously time will tell but I have no reason to suspect that this one will be any different. The main feature putting this ahead of my other pocket sized backup drives is the speed. If you have a USB 3 connection then the speed difference is very noticeable. Video editing straight from the drive using Final Cut Pro is not a problem at all. Backwards compatibility with USB 2 ensures all computers are catered for. I am reluctant to install the software on my Mac as I have had problems with Seagate software causing hang ups in the past. Besides which I can set it up to use Time Machine for backups of my important files. The function of the software seems a little random too - recovering all of your files from the cloud and storing them locally... It would seem that the era of the cloud for storage is coming to an end! Overall though this is a very nicely made portable device which enables speedy transfer of files with or without the included software and will hopefully have the reliability afforded by my other Seagate drives.
5|great 1tb storage compact and portable only need one usb port works like a charm fast speed due to the USB 3 connection
1|I, like many others, have trusted this piece of junk with all of my files. I was using it as temporary storage as i needed to get everything off my internal hard drive. The Seagate external drive failed after 2 WEEKS of usage, for no reason whatsoever. I have now lost all of my work, photos, and other valuable data. Do not think this item will be suitable as a temporary measure, as it could seemingly fail at any time even if it is brand new. Total garbage.
5|Seagate 1TB USB 3.0 2.5 inch Backup Plus External Hard Drive-Blue This is the second 1TB drive I have reviewed (the 1st was the VoyagerAir back in July 2013). Both have their merits but the most striking comparison is their respective size; the Seagate is approximately one third of the size! As I continue to be amazed at the amount you can store/back up on something this small: That's - 320,000 high resolution digital photos - or - 1000 hours of digital video - or - 17,000 hours of music - or - 250 DVD films (2 hours in length) (all of these are estimates) I rechecked Moore's Law (not really a law) that computer capacity doubles every 2 years - it may slow down - but on this evidence - I wouldn't bet on it! The Seagate is plug and play; my PC recognized it within seconds. It's powered by USB 3 or 2 connection using a lead which is only about 40cm long (this length may be restrictive depending on intended use) It would fit in a shirt pocket quite easily and at 141g it weighs at least 5 times less than the VoyagerAir ( the trade-off is that the VoagerAir has a built in battery that can last 7 hrs) I used a USB2 connection to transfer 10.1GB to the Seagate; which took 7.5mins - 100mb took only 7sec (100mb to the VoyageAir took 45sec !) The Seagate seems to to be marketing itself ostensibly to the Facebook generation; as the included software and video tutorials ( on the drive itself) stress the ease with which you can back up your on line presence.I have watched these guides and in 1 click it allows you to back up data from Facebook (and similar); items that may have been uploaded from mobile phones or cameras and the original deleted. I am unlikely to use this facility myself but it could prove invaluable to a lot of people. At £77.99 it's not cheap; but for it's size, speed and capacity it must be hard to beat.
5|I was in need of large capacity portable drives to use as backups and found the 4TB Backup Plus from Seagate. It worked after connecting it to the laptop and began working on it. I removed all of the preloaded automated rubbish and encrypted the whole drive with Truecrypt. Preloaded automated backup software would likely render your computer unresponsive. Having to rely on something automated to pack away valuable data into storage is foreign to me. Drag and drop is the way forward. I use Windows 7/10 OS. Put everything in a folder that needs to be sent over, then move everything in the folder into the drive space. Simple. Over an hour later, 257GB was successfully transferred without a hitch. Truecrypt is no longer available online however, you can search for other alternatives like it online and they're freeware. I've learned of the disadvantages of drives configured to RAID 0 as it allows for total data loss if one of the two internal drives fails. With that in mind, I've done some research into the 2 offerings from Seagate of the Backup Plus 4TB drive before purchasing. I found that the "Backup Plus 4TB" which is the one I brought has 1 ONE internal 4tb drive inside. The other version which is called "Backup Plus FAST 4TB" has 2 Samsung drives inside and is configured to RAID 0, hence why the "Backup Plus FAST 4TB Portable" is more expensive than the "Backup Plus 4TB Portable". See here for price comparison and spec; http://www.amazon.co.uk/Seagate-STDA4000200-Backup-portable-external/dp/B00IGSB2ZK So far it’s looking good from here. I'm really liking it so much so, I might just go buy another one.
5|Absolutely perfect. I bought one of these to replace my PS4 500GB hard drive with. I can confirm these work a treat in a PS4. I am not in the slightest bit techy, but following one of the many installation guides available by Googling (I think I used the first one from Game FAQ's users) was very easy indeed. Be warned, it is very difficult to remove the outer casing without tools, but if you don't need the casing and don't mind chipping it, that's fine. It took me at least 15 minutes to remove the casing with my fingernails (or what I have that could class as parts of fingernails :P) and the casing bends when you remove it. It took me 4 months and hardly a large number of games to max my PS4's 500gb hard drive, so this 2TB drive was a welcome addition! Don't quote me as being law or scripture, but in my personal experience: - This works perfectly with PS4s without issue. - I had written confirmation (and you can see it online via various sites, including Sony's) that the replacement does not void your warranty. - The installation is very easy to do. - I had written confirmation that if you ever need a Sony repair on your PS4, you absolutely MUST replace the 500GB hard drive and take this 2TB one out before sending your console. Although replacing the hard drive does not void your warranty, if you do ever need a repair, you must send the console in the way it was bought - unless you are authorised to do so. That may seem daft, but just be warned beforehand - don't send your console in with the new hard drive or they may send it back unfixed.
5|My setup Mobo M5A7Bl-M, Quad Core 8mb3.40 Phenon 11x4 965 CPU, 16 Gig DDR3 Ram, Win 7 64bit,AMD Radeon Dh600 series, PSU ATX 12v P4 750w. Pluged in the drive and it booted up fine within 4 seconds and ready for use. There is a white LED on top of the drive indicating its on and there is no power adaptor to worry about it powers from the PCs USB 3.0 socket (it can also work with USB 2.0 but slower and firewire and Thunderbird). The cable that comes with the kit is so small about 6" that you will either have to buy a longer one or plug it in and leave it on top of your PC as long as its not a hot spot otherwise could overheat (no problem if your using a laptop though) the casing is a bit plasticly and not very sturdy but its mainly to be used for a laptop anyway. If you do use if for a desktop buy some rubber feet or longer cable. You can get hold of a USB extention cable quite cheap on Amazon. Before you can use Backup plus you have to register it by inputting the serial number found on the drive or package and adding your name, country, and email address, it dosen't ask you for you home address or phone. Backup plus comes on the hard drive itself and no backup disc, funny really if you lose the data on the drive then you can't use it to backup so might be good idea to burn a CD copy and put it somewhere safe incase you need it later. It interacts with Facebook, Flicker and You Tube. You get 4 video tutors to help you get to grips with Backup plus but its pretty user friendly and not hard to work out. It will backup certain files, or all files but it dosen't back up the operating system so if you had a problem with this you have to reinstall the OS then use backup plus to restore the rest. A great little back up drive you can put in your coat pocket as its the same size and thickness as an average notebook and is incredibly light.
5|Maybe it's a sad and geeky reference but this hard-drive just reminded me of the first two rules in The Philosophy of UNIX - namely 'Small is Beautiful' and 'Do One Thing Well' and maybe that's what Seagate had in mind when they designed it. The drive is easily neat and light enough to slip into a shirt pocket, although it could easily slip back out again if you're not careful. The front has a stylish brushed metal facia with a subtle cut in the top left, behind which a white LED pulses slowly while the drive is in use. The back is mostly flat (apart from a label) and is liable to get scuffed if you're not careful where you lay it, little rubbery pads at the corners would help but Seagate have decided to keep things sleek and padless. Since it's so portable it would be nice to get a slip case to carry it around in, but you don't get one of them either. You get a copy of Seagate Dashboard onboard, for both Windows and Mac, but you don't have to install this to get the drive working as everything you need is already in your computer. The Dashboard app adds some file-sharing features, so you can automate sending photo's to Facebook or Flickr - but I'm really not sure why any hard-drive needs to be able to do this. When you register your drive you also get 4GB of cloud-based storage free for one year (provided by Nero) but I'm not sure that this is any more useful than similar free services like Dropbox. In the end I uninstalled the Dashboard app and downloaded a copy of the Seagate Drive Settings app, which is available free from the Seagate website, which gives access to basic settings for the drive without the (slightly silly) file-sharing features. Note that the drive arrives formatted for cross-platform use and on Mac's you need to install the included (Seagate device locked) NTFS driver to get things working - or you can just reformat the drive for Mac-only use and avoid installing extra drivers. There are no switches or buttons and just a single USB3 socket - it comes with a short (approx 40cm) USB-A to USB-3 cable - and draws all the power it needs down that single USB connection. Speeds are great, although it seems to take a few moments to get going and reach full throughput, this might depend on the device you're currently connected to. It works fine on older USB-2 ports too and even though they can't achieve the full throughput of USB-3 the drive feels noticeably faster than standard USB-2 drives would be. It barely gets warm even after extended use and is barely audible while working, you just hear the occasional click as the heads engage. It would make a great drive to connect to a smart TV to add PVR facilities (it worked fine with our TV) because it's small enough and quiet enough to remain hidden - but it's a shame to hide something so nicely designed. The Slim is minimal in form and function, it's nothing more than a fast, sleek external hard-drive and does that one thing very well and with some style.
4|As of recent Seagate have done a great job at impressing me - and probably thousands of other tech geeks across the world - with their stylish portable hard drive designs. Face it, when it comes to buying something as essential as a portable hard drive you will want to sex it up a little. They're as essential as having insurance, but with so many on offer, which do you choose - right?! Same with a hard drive! Technology is getting smaller. So small in fact that portable hard drives can now slip in your pocket without leaving a noticeable bulge. This, however, is still a typical hard drive, not solid state, and has moving parts, so like any portable hard drive you want to be careful not to to too over the top with knocking it around if you want it to last. At 500GB and with the price tag attached what I personally feel you're paying for here is USB3 connectivity, the Seagate Dashboard software and obviously style, with its brushed aluminium facade. There are cheaper hard drives out there with the same space, though a USB3 connection will make a noticeable difference for those with PCs that enable its faster speeds. I'm using a Mac for this review. That's good and bad - upon installation the setup asks you whether you would like to use the hard drive for Mac only, or Mac and PC. Often working from home and office it involves operating between both operating systems. Seagate Dashboard is a useful interface, though not perfect in design. Where to click on the menus aren't obvious. It allows you to see the drive you have connected, opening up in Settings for some reason, and making it less than obvious where to click. Once you've found your way round though you can view the hard drive's current space usage, test the hard drive's functionality and turn its LED on or off (great!). From the Home dashboard - and there's clicking around to find it - you have the option of sharing to your social networks: Facebook, Flickr, or YouTube, or sharing to them. Backing up, restoring and sharing with the Seagate Slim is like, so totally easy - thanks to the setup guide videos that come preinstalled, and with subtitles in several languages (though the voice is still an over excited California girl presenting each how-to). You can share to Facebook, YouTube and Flickr directly and easily by signing in to your accounts, and essentially you can also save from all of them, bar YouTube, by synchronising accounts - not a bad feature considering you may have uploaded a lot of photos to your Facebook and Flickr directly off a phone or camera's memory card that you may have accidentally deleted. It's great seeing Seagate think outside the box with innovating hard drives. If you're "lucky" enough to have Windows you can even set it up to back up your documents at regular intervals. Luckily though, you can use also Time Machine with the hard drive, even if it means reformatting the drive - the space on the Seagate Slim is the same as a standard MacBook Pro hard drive. If you're aware of others looking at your choice in stylish hard drive with decent transfer speeds to boot, and some not-so-simple-optional-software to manage your files this is for you. Otherwise just plug it in, format it for your operating system and BAM, additional back up!
5|If Slim and portable is what you want from a HD then this is ideal! As others have already said, this is a sleek little hard drive. OK so it's not enormous in capacity - all the other drives I have bought in the past year or two have been 1TB or greater - BUT its size gives it the edge for portability. It's about the height and width of a pack of playing cards but about 1/3rd or a quarter of the thickness - in fact the stats provided by Seagate are that it is 113.5mm x 76mm x 9.6mm. Also it is pretty light at only 150g. As their advert says "wallets are bigger than this". The "Seagate Dashboard" (if you choose to have it loaded onto your pc - you don't HAVE to) gives you a number of useful little functions enabling you to: quickly and easily back up all of your data onto Cloud storage upload pictures and videos TO Facebook, flickr or Youtube download pictures and videos FROM Facebook, flickr or Youtube The drive itself comes with its own faster USB 3.0 lead to enable faster transfer of data. The operation of the hard drive is the same as all of them these days - just plug it in with the cable supplied and voila the drive is recognised by your pc, tablet or whatever and you can start dragging and dropping files immediately! It's that simple. My summary? It's a fast little hard drive that fits neatly in your pocket. It feels a decent quality piece of kit. If you need something ultra portable with this capacity then this will do the job no problem!
4|Seagate makes some very good hard drives and this one definitely goes into their premium category. It looks brilliant. A brushes aluminium top and high quality plastic case. Not to mention the wonderfully apple-esque LED operation light. So build quality is definitely not an issue for this drive. The second most impressive thing is how thin and small this drive is! It is positively tiny. Less than a centimetre in hight and only 11cm long and 8cm wide. This is impressive. The operation of this drive is also good. When copying from the device to an SSD I got about 130mbps. Which is a respectable speed. Copying was around 30mbps but that may have been a bottleneck on my end of the system and not the drive. I only have one gripe with this drive that isn't its price. That is the silly USB connection. I just don't understand why it couldn't use micro or mini usb. A format everyone has lying around. It annoys me I can't take this with me without a cable and expect someone to have a spare cable when I turn up. I am not saying I'd do this on purpose but it does and can happen and I find it silly to use such a proprietary connection. Admittedly at £80 this is at the high end of the 500GB portable hard drive market but it does have superb build quality and great components and I think it is worth it. At £65 this would be a complete steal! So in conclusion this is a very good hard drive that is only slightly let down by a proprietary USB cable.
5|Superb. Rarely give five-stars, but this Seagate 500GB portable hard-drive deserves it, for sheer simplicity alone. 500GB is a whopping amount of memory for something this small and sleek, and the fact this unit is (on the face of it) about the size of an iPod, but twice as slim. Weight-wise, I'd say it's two-thirds the weight of my Blackberry... So if you wanted to slip this in your jacket pocket, it's fab. Sat on my desk, this is not one of those chunky pieces of kit that feels it has to LOOK techy... Quite the opposite. It's sleek and because it's so slim, with a brushed steel surface, it's actually a nice piece of minimalist design. Operation-wise, this couldn't be simpler. All you do is plug it in via the USB3.0 (provided... which is super fast; therefore, you won't have any problems with watching a movie off it, or using it as an external source for, say, audio files for music composition), and you're away! There's a slim white light on the front, which illuminates to show you're in business. And the best thing is, the unit doesn't require pesky software interfaces be downloaded: all you have to do is drag & drop. If you need to shift between PCs and Macs, there's a piece of software pre-loaded that will do that for you. And there's also something that will make uploading files to multiple social network sites easy. The latter is merely a bonus, really. But, hey, it's there if you want it, but honestly, it's a cherry on the cake rather than a deal-breaker. For the money, given its its sleek, minimalist design; its ease of use, and for its crazy amount of memory, I think you'd be hard pushed to get better value for money.
4|Seagate are a big and respected name in storage hardware and although currently selling at £65 for 500Gb, a price for which it is possible to get 1Tb, the Seagate badge and the size and quality of this device definitely makes up for the price differential. The 500Gb is packaged in a cigarette case sized (and indeed looking) very slim brushed aluminium case, very light and easily slipped into even a shirt pocket; an additional bonus is the centimeter long slither of metal machined out of the surface exposing a nice bright white LED showing that the device is doing something - very nice :-). The USB 3.0 connectivity makes for a very fast backup device indeed and it is of course very simple to use as a straight portable hard-drive - plug it in, create whatever folder structure takes your fancy and drop all your stuff into it. This is my preferred method of use, however, the device also comes supplied with in-built backup software which allows you to configure folders for back up and then will take incremental updates, this can be configured to happen everytime or on a schedule. The other potentially useful feature is the ability to point to "cloud-based" storage to take backups of whatever you may store there and again back it up automatically according to whatever schedule you set up. The software is fairly easy to use although not the most intuitive I've come across. Excellent product all-in-all.
5|When the box dropped through my letterbox(!) I looked at it and thought; that can't possibly be the hard drive, but I couldn't think of anything else I'd ordered that it could be. On opening the packaging and seeing it was the external HDD I'd ordered I was blown away at how small the box inside was, then even moreso when actually getting the HDD out; it's the size of a mobile phone! Admittedly the product dimensions are listed on the site, it's just I hadn't looked at them. This is the fourteenth Seagate external HDD I now own (incidentally, all of them are still working, so I have no problem trusting Seagate HDDs) and it's easily 6+ times smaller than any of the others, hence my amazement. I tried filling it up and the speeds I was getting are around what I'm used to, so no problem for me there as it's doing its job, although being USB 3.0 it will be capable of faster than I was getting seeing as I was only using 2.0 to transfer the files. It also feels very solid and I'd have no worries carrying it around in my pocket, I imagine it could take a few knocks without much of a problem, although I'm not willing to try that out! With physical storage space in mind I can see me getting a lot of these HDDs but I will hold off for now and see how this one fares over the next few months just to make sure that quality hasn't been sacrificed for size and I'll update this review if it has.
4|I have had Seagate drives before, and this performs as well as it's predecessors. Simple open the box, unpack the contents, (the drive, the cable and a printed guide which is only sizeable because it appears to cover every language on earth) and then plug the drive into your computer. The software you need is on the drive and simply downloads to your machine and, once completed, gives you the chance to back up, or to use the drive to share or save your files on social media. I am not sure this is a particularly relevant benefit as most people would surely have this resolved in other ways. As a stan alone drive though, it does the job simply and well.
2|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim (2TB) is described as suitable for both PC and Mac. I'm a Mac user and had to erase/format it in order to make it work; it was showing as Read Only at first. It's even described as 'Mac ready' in the tech specs - which it simply isn't. It isn't difficult to erase/format it, but it isn't immediately obvious that's what you have to do, and some people might find this a challenge. The setup.dmg file took me to a 404 page, which may - or may not - have helped. The instructions on making your new Seagate drive talk to your Mac can be found here - http://knowledge.seagate.com/articles/en_US/FAQ/214531en?language=en_US
5|This little drive looks good on your desktop with attractive and stylish looks coupled with a sturdy build quality. It self installs Mac drivers and is automatically recognised by Windows. Lots of these external drives come with backup software pre loaded and so does this but in this case the software actually is worth having and can automatically back up designated content from your PC onto the hard drive. The unit is pretty minimalist in design, for many people this is a plus, and does not sport multiple status or activity lights, just one low key LED.. Unusually these days it comes with a printed user guide - not that you will ever need it - in multiple languages. 500 GB these days is not an enormous amount and probably not enough to back up every folder on your computer but hopefully it will be enough to protect key files and documents. It should also be said that there are rival products out there that offer more memory for less money such as the WD My Passport 1TB Portable Hard Drive - Silver. In conclusion this is well made and stylish device that should answer most of your needs for data backup and transportable storage. The Good Printed User Guide Stylish design Good build quality MAC and PC drivers Backup software included The Bad Expensive One status LED only
5|I bought this device as I was aware that it house a Samsung M9T hdd. I wanted this drive to upgrade my PS4 from 500GB to 2TB. This external device was £10 cheaper than buying the drive on it's own... whilst it is a no brainer I was a little concerned as to how difficult it may be to get in to. The enclosure has a few 'glued' points, but is mainly fitted together with plastic. A thin screwdriver/razor blade run down the middle of the edges should get these to pop open. There is then a small adapter plugged in to the drives SATA connections which then pops out of the case to give your cable connection. This pulls off easily and release the drive itself. Once this was in the PS4 I placed the 500GB from the PS4 into the enclosure and 'popped the case shut... it worked instantly! If you are going to do this you will need to use device manager (or similar) to delete all of the partitions on the drive, the PS4 appears to create a partition for each and every game. Once this is done it works like any other external hard drive! So; The drive - works PERFECTLY in the PS4, slight speed increase but nothing overly noticeable, storage increased to 1.77TB available. The enclosure - can be used again with a different drive (note that if you use a different drive you will need a maximum of 9mm 2.5" SATA drive)
4|This drive is very thin and nice and quiet. It's significantly quieter than my WD Elements 1TB (although that drive is larger obviously), and even though I'm very sensitive to noise I could imagine leaving it plugged in all the time without it being a nuisance. The brushed metal effect looks very nice, but it's only on the front. The sides are glossy plastic and the back is matte plastic. The joint where the sides meets the back has a slightly sharp edge. It's not sharp enough to cut your finger or anything, but it stops it from being a pleasant object to hold and makes it feel a bit cheap. There aren't any rubber feet on the bottom to stop the drive sliding around, but the back is matte plastic, so it's not super-slidey. The drive has a thin white light on the front which lights up when the drive is connected and goes out when it's ejected for disconnection, and the light pulses slowly when files on the drive are being accessed. The computer I'm using the drive with (a mid-2011 iMac) only has USB 2.0, but for what it's worth when testing with the Blackmagic Disk Speed Test app I get around 23.1 MB/s both for write and read speed (attached using the supplied cable directly to the iMac with no hub in between), but again that's using USB 2.0, so I can't comment on whether it would be faster when connected by USB 3.0. All in all, I'm fairly pleased with the product. At the moment it's priced at a premium over other 500GB drives, and I'd say the slimness and the design are just about worth it. The only issue really is that slightly sharp edge which mars the premium feel a bit.
4|I own a Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB (silver). I made this purchase a few months ago as I needed something as a secondary backup for my main HDD and my primary backup portable drive. I am always very careful with my hard drives as I tend to store a lot of work stuff in them which are hard to replicate quickly as I tend to often work on the go. I secure it with a case I bought separately and travel around with it, and it hasn't failed me so far. USB 3.0 provision means data transfer is quick and I believe it is marginally faster at advertised speeds to the slightly cheaper Samsung M3 (which I own as well) - 625 megabytes per second to Samsung's 600. But it is slightly bigger than Samsung M3, so the pros and cons somewhat even themselves out. In all fairness, there isn't much difference between the various portable drives out there. Pricing is quite similar for most depending on their respective storage capacities. It's just that I tend to prefer using Seagates (all my portables and satas bar one are Seagates) so this seemed like an interesting product to me. Looks good, operates well. So far so good. If anyone's out looking for a portable drive that is slightly smaller in size, this might be a good option to consider. Packaging comes with a quick start guide and a USB 3.0 cable. Aesthetically pleasing product.
4|Seagate have come up with a very attractive USB 3.0 HDD, I love the metallic blue anodized aluminum of the top of the drive, the underside is black plastic, it's very sleek in design. This drive has a capacity of 1TB, which lets face it is big enough for most purposes, being USB 3 it is also quick and also very quiet in operation. With the drive you get a USB 3.0 lead which is also backwards compatible with USB 2 but transfer speeds will be slower, a white LED fades on and off slowly during file transfers, I'd prefer it if it flashed like other drives I have. This drive comes with back-up software installed on it, however you don't have to install it to your laptop/PC if you don't wish to use it. Build quality looks good, but this is not a 'tough' drive so may not withstand being dropped or bashed about that much, the USB socket seems firm and solid. A good, compact drive that easily slips into a pockets and looks attractive too.
2|Disappointing as frequent disconnections from Windows 7 laptop while drive in use. My older Seagate USB 3.0 drives work perfectly with the same laptop and the new drive worked fine on my Windows 7 desktop, but its no use to me on that system. Since the laptop is a new high spec model I suspect there are some compatibility or firmware issues with these new Seagate drives. I will be returning the drive as faulty as I need a new one for the laptop while travelling. Most disappointing was the complete lack of response from Seagate to the support call I raised via email. Most reassuring was the simple Amazon returns process.
5|I've been planning and comparing prices for these for a long time, and this one was recommended to me by a colleague. So when this one popped up on amazon cheaper than anywhere else I couldn't help but buy it. I over estimated how much stuff I had to put on there but i've managed to use a teeny bit of memory on it. I really liked the colour as well, it was something a bit different, i've only ever seen black or silver ones Item arrived the next day (I was using the Amazon Prime Trial) I would definitely recommend this to friends and family.
5|I am very impressed with this portable hard drive. It has MORE than enough storage for ALL of My family movies and pictures. (I have over 128gb's of family movies, pictures, and other media) These slim drives can come in two storage sizes that I know of. 500gb and 1TB sizes, depending on your needs and preferences. It is very quiet/silent whilst in use, with no clicking or whirring sounds. The read and write speeds are very fast and efficient, which comes down to it's fast USB 3.0 connector cable, which is supplied in the box, with the hard drive and instruction manual/s. It is backwards-compatible with older computers and Mac's with USB 2.0 ports. This hard drive comes with pre-loaded software, to enable you to back up files on your PC, via Seagate's own 'dashboard' software. I didn't have to use this, as I've always been one to simply 'drag and drop' or 'highlight and move' files to the hard drive itself. The product is well packaged, so it doesn't suffer any bumps, knocks or shocks. It's well-built, solid, and has a brushed, smooth metal surface, with a smooth, plastic underside in black. There are no sharp edges or screw holes that I have seen. This is a super-portable drive, that fits snuggly and comfortably into a breast pocket, jacket pocket, or trouser pocket, without causing discomfort. The hard drive that I bought, came with 2 years manufacturer's warranty, which I am very pleased about. Overall, I HIGHLY recommend this to you all. You won't be disappointed. Thanks for reading!
1|What a nightmare. All I want to do is back up photos from my Apple Mac. The software that needs downloading is never ending and confusing. The Seagate Dashboard does not have actions to back up to the hardware I purchased - just try's to get me to save to the Cloud all the time. Still can't get it working - no instructions. I've sought customer help but have been bombarded and bamboozled with links to research or understand. I give up. What happened to plug and play or drag and drop - worst £45 I have ever spent!
5|Seems to work flawlessly in the PS4. Carefully prize the drive case open (I started at one corner with a small screwdriver, there are three clips down either side and two at the bottom) and you can get it open with only minor damage along the join. You can then simply slot your old 500gb PS4 drive in here, so the added bonus of another portable drive- all at much less cost than buying the Samsung drive that is in here as a stand alone drive (around a £25 saving). Make sure your PS4 is updated to the latest firmware before you start. Go to Sony's website and download the firmware, put it on a USB stick making sure you follow the instructions in terms of putting it in 2 folders (correctly named in capitals) on the USB. Back up all your saved game data either to a separate USB or PSN if you are a member. Slide the shiny top off the PS4. Unscrew the device caddy and the drive (easy). Take the drive from the Seagate, remove the silver foil and pull off the clip on device interface on the end of the drive and screw in the caddy. Slide back into PS4. Start up PS4. I got a screen saying Safe mode, simply make sure the PS4 controller is connected to PS4 via USB lead and plug in USB. Click OK to reinstall firmware. All starts up on its own. Then sign into PSN using usual settings, and your profile is back on the PS4. You can re download all software previously paid for no problem just click download. Install all disc games. Then go into application data management in menu, and either copy your saved game data from your USB stick, or from PSN. All done, now nearly 1800GB of space on the disc, for a very good price and if you were careful pulling the case apart, a 500gb portable HD to boot. The PS4 hard disc, simply clip on the interface, wrap the silver foil back around and push into the external HD case, it clicks in, and click the top back on.
5|This drive is slightly larger than I was expecting, but still small and light. I reckon there must be two 2.5" drives in there, as it is just a bit wider than a pack of playing cards. Pocket sized it certainly is. Its capacity is, however, ENORMOUS! It is quite difficult to test the speed of such a drive, because the PC used to test it may be the bottleneck. The internal drive must be at least as fast as the one tested. I chose a blu-ray disk image of 6.5Gb, and transferred that first to the external drive and then back again. There was no appreciable difference in speed, both transferred at roughly 135MB/s, transfers taking less than a minute. That is impressively fast. My internal drive is an SSD, so that helped, otherwise there will be limits due to your hardware. The drive needs no external power cable, power is supplied via USB3. I would recommend using mains power to your laptop, however, rather than battery. A fine drive; longevity may be a problem if it is used heavily, but for backup purposes it must be state of the art at present, winning on size and speed.
3|Seagate's Slim portable drive is nicely designed and is certainly slim and light, making it easy to carry around. It's also a smooth shape so fits nicely into pockets etc. It's about the thickness of a smart phone and a little wider. It's not the largest capacity but not long ago, this would have seemed like ample storage for most needs. It works fine as a drag and drop store for files, BUT critically for me, I have not managed to get the on board software to work. Let me stress that this isn't essential and you can still use it as a drag and drop drive, but I was specifically looking for the benefits of the on board software to allow computer back up and to explore some of the social media back up options. The software is there but when I try to install it, it says "unable to locate probably due to download interruption". And yet no download is involved. I'm running Win 7 and also turned off AV software before attempting this. So, onto the Seagate web site. There are several other posts with the same problem, several of them three or more months old, with no response from the Seagate moderators. There is an option to download the software though, so I tried that with exactly the same result. So the main reason I wanted this drive is completely ineffective. Clearly for some, the software works fine, so it must be something with my set up, although I have never had an issue with drive software installations prior to this. What irks most is the lack of response from Seagate to what is clearly an issue for more than a few. All the troubleshooting assumes you have loaded the software - no mention of when it fails to install at all. Although I'm disappointed and annoyed enough to grade this as a 2 star review, the fact is that it still has functionality albeit just not what I wanted it for and which it claims it's capable of. So in fairness I've given it 3 stars but would caution buyers that while some have got the on board software to work, I still have been unable to resolve this and Seagate have not responded.
2|Two comments about this product. 1. Product shown in the picture is not what I got. The one I got had a old seagate logo. New (not so) wine in an old bottle? 2. The build of the product is not sturdy.
5|I have several external hard drives, used for things like backups of music, photos, media, computer etc. Out of all of them, this is a beautifully designed drive. The striking brushed aluminium resembles the iPhone 5 and h&c one silver phones, it looks quality. I have a Mac and although it comes with its own backup software, i prefer the ease of use and integration of Time Machine, also I do not like NTFS (even though you get software to write to NTFS) and thats what it comes formatted with. A quick re-format was all that was needed to get the drive how I wanted it. It is too small a capacity for use as a full backup system, so is best used as backing up certain items like music or movies etc. I reformatted it as FAT. I know its an old system, but my TV can read FAT drives and I put some media files on there and plugged it in the TV USB port. Hey presto, files are accessed through the TV by the TV remote. Simple. Lightweight drive, nice looking, fast USB3 (pity I don't have that), overall a good storage device.
4|I was immediately impressed with the very small form factor of this 500GB external drive. The top of the drive is of brushed metal construction and the bottom tray is black glossy plastic. The unit is maybe 10mm in height and just slightly wider and longer than my Blackberry Bold. I use the hard drive as an offsite backup, keeping precious photos and FLAC files away from home in case the worst should happen. This unit excels as the small form factor means it is easily stored off site and can be transported home for a regular back up. I have only given this unit four stars as the cable seems an afterthought, it is a standard SS to USB cable but it just seems to get in the way. Although it would no doubt make the design of an external HD a lot more difficult I would love to see a unit with this form factor and some sort of built in USB connector. It would make all the difference. Still, a very impressive and useful HD.
5|I purchased this drive to compliment my I Mac & it certainly does. Simple plug & play, I mac accepted immediately. Size is approx to an I phone & can be used between the I Mac & my PC without reformatting, great piece of kit would highly recommend. The only criticism is the length of USB cable...being only approx 1ft in length, really needs to be around 2ft but on saying that is not really a big problem to me.
5|This drive is large in capacity, slim in size. Have used it quite a bit and it performs as expected. I use it with both a macbook pro and windows 10 PC and it so far ha performed flawlessly. You get ntfs drivers for your mac so you can read and write to it without having to reformat it. I have formatted it into two partitions as I use it for two separate tasks. The speed is good and you also get a usb3 cable with it, a thin one. I have a few external drives, WD 2.5" and WD 3.5" cloud drive, but I think for size and capacity so far I like this quite a lot. It is small and light enough if you want to just carry in your pocket, but I keep mine in a same colour case (Case Logic EHDC101B Portable Case) which I have also reviewed. To round up, it is simple to use, portable, cross platform with drivers for macs and slim and light. Well worth purchasing.
5|Great little Drive! Combined with the Verbatim MediaShare, this little gadget is ideal ensuring that I don't have to carry too much with me on holidays. I love the fact that I can switch between the different OS'es and their filesystems without formatting, and it doesn't even affect the speed. Short and sweet: If you want a fast, quiet, simple and all around great hard drive, get one!
4|As a Mac user, I researched carefully the right hard drive on which to store my movies and this seemed to be a good choice however it doesn't work put of the box. I sonnected it, clicked the set up icon and was taken to a 404 error page. I went to the Seagate home page and tried to regoster the product only to receive the message, "unable to register at this time". I then tried calling the UK support line to get the message "our offices are closed due to a team meeting"! I will update this review when/if I get some help to get the drive up and running otherwise it will be going back! Update Got hold of the Seagate tech guys and they were extremely helpful. I was able to set the drive up to run on both Mac and Windows and they were happy to advise on my use of the product. It is running well now so, fingers crossed it continues to do so. Review changed from 2 stars to 4.
5|I get through portable hard drives like nobodies business. Some stay the course but many fail or lose data. I have been surprised that this small portable drive does the business well is sturdy and strong and after 6 months of continued use I have never had a problem with it. Its compact and I did buy the cover with it and it goes with me in my camera or briefcase.
5|Bought this on impulse after doing a load of research and not really finding something that stood out. This was reduced and I figured I could re-format it from NTFS (Windows) to HFS+ (Mac). However, was pleasantly surprised to find you can download a driver that allows you read/ write this on a Mac, but keep it compatible for read/write on a PC. Perfect as I have both at home. Driver is at: [...] (Note the website says this should work out of the box. I didn't find that.) Am also surprised to find that the device is really light and very quiet! USB cable is 3.0, connects well, and fast as you'd expect. (60 GB from MacBook Air to drive in 10 mins.) If you have a USB 3.0 Western Digital drive, you can share the same cable. Looks good too, nice blue-white light. I can't see the RPM listed anywhere, so my best bet is that this is a 5,400 RPM.
5|Now this I like. I have several back up hard drives, and this is by far the nicest to look at- the silver finish is really nice, and matches my iMac nicely. It really is small as well, and sits unobtrusively on my desktop. Looks are not everything, and this thing is fast. The data transfer speed is fast! Not actually sure of speeds, but to be honest, I click on transfer, then normally wonder off and do something else, so as long as it does it fairly quick, I am fine. As always these things come with software. I installed it and tried it, but it also locked the hard drive to write only, and I found that I had to format the drive. No big deal; normally have to do this, so I am not taking any stars off for this. I never use proprietary software- the OS should handle it. So, as you can tell, I love this. Recommended.
5|As an upgrading PS4 user, i bought this, like many others, to rip out the drive and put it into a PS4. I tested this was working first on my PC (it was) before opening it up. Be sure to do this as you will void your warranty once it is opened and if it is a duff drive you won't be able to return it. I used a plastic guitar pick to open the case and managed to remove the drive with zero damage to the case. Did the swap with the original PS4 drive and everything went smoothly. The PS4s 500gb drive is now back in the seagate case and after a reformat (quick format will do to NTFS) it is working great. There are few options at the moment for getting a 2TB drive at this physcal size (under 12mm thick) at this price point. PS4 now has 1.4TB space remaining and i no longer have to delete a game to install another. Excellent.
5|As far as portable hard drives go, this is a VERY portable 500GB hard drive. It's not much bigger than a smart phone, and with 500GB of storage it is a very handy device to have around. It was recognised by my laptop straight away, and was ready for use within seconds. A great hard drive for anyone who needs a bit of extra space and is on-the-go a lot.
4|Highly portable and not that much bigger than the Samsung M9T 2TB hard drive inside and no external power supply! It is USB 3, but don't expect particularly fast transfers. I dragged over 1TB of mixed files from different drives, including internal spindle drives (hitachi 500gb), a hybrid internal drive (momentus xt 500gb) and a Crucial M500. The fastest I could manage was around 100mb/sec sustained writes and about 150mb/sec reads. All this was done via an 18 month old XPS 17. Build quality is pretty good, nothing to complain about. It looks to be a plastic tray with an anodised aluminium top. Feels reasonably solid. If you plan on removing the drive for internal usage, be aware that getting the aluminium top off the casing isn't that difficult, but getting it off without damaging it is! Heat doesn't seem to be an issue, it has been used continuously for several hours transferring and sorting files and it was warm to the touch, but nothing to worry about. One minor gripe and this seems to be true for many PC acessories nowadays and that is the stupidly short cable. Less than a foot long is most certainly going to save on bulk and weight, but does make things a little awkward. Overall, very happy with it so far, would recommend.
5|I'm always apprehensive about buying a new hard drive and most concerned with Seagate's poor track record compared with other makes. However this purchase was made for my Xbox one and the fortunate thing is that any loss of data through failure can easily be replaced. Notwithstanding the risk I attached the device to the Xbox and it was immediately recognised, formatted and in service within minutes. The device is compact and ready to use the moment it's connected. Furthermore, I copied two game files in a matter of minutes, Halo Master Chief (61.6 Gb) copied over to the new drive in slightly under 15 minutes and Fallout 4 (31.5 Gb) in under 10 minutes. I have no experience of other devices to compare with but I'm extremely pleased with this performance which is why I'm offering full marks.
4|The drive is very small, about iPod Classic size and weight. It has a brushed metal effect top, shiny black plastic sides and matte plastic underside. A single white LED lights up when plugged in. It came formatted in NTFS with some backup software on which I have not used (easily deleted). It can of course be formatted to FAT, HFS or anything else as required (eg if using on a Mac). It has a single USB3 port (no external power needed), and comes with a short USB cable. So if you use a USB 3 port on your computer (usually indicated with blue plastic inside the port), the drive performs much faster. I paid £59 which is currently a good price. Even though it was out of stock when I ordered it, it came a few days later.
5|This is so much better than my previous drive - it is so small and light with a nice red metal shell, and a textured black plastic back, shiny sides. Very light, no vibration or noise, a nice white LED activity light. USB3 is very fast. The lead is short but that is compact. Highly recommended.
5|I bought this to replace my old external 2.5” Seagate drive which is still going strong but as I now have both a laptop and a desktop with USB 3 I wanted to take full advantage of the speed increase. As usual Seagate doesn’t disappoint, unlike other reviewers which I think are being slightly harsh for a ~£40 product, the quality is second to none with a great brushed metal finish and it’s slim, light and ultra portable. If you’re in the market for a portable hard drive which is powered from your laptop then this has to be your number 1 choice, my only slight criticism would be it could have done with a couple of small rubber feet on the bottom to stop it sliding about in use but other than that I cannot fault.
5|I'm not particularly technologically gifted, so my review will probably lack the in-depth knowledge of others. For a casual user, this device was terrific: small, fast and easy to use. I plugged it in to my USB port and could access it instantly. I've decided to collect all my thousands of digital photos in one place and organise some logical folders for them. This devices, with its massive capacity, shows no signs that it cannot handle this task. It doesn't slow down at any stage and neither does it create any baffling obstacles to a straightforward task. If you need a serious amount of extra memory space in a small, lightweight device, I can thoroughly recommended this portable drive.
5|The best thing about this drive is this : If the USB connector get knackered and stops functioning and you have valuable data on the drive - simple. Take apart the drive, buy a USB case or connector for a few quid and you've got all your data back. Western Digital and other brand do a sneaky little things which prevents you from doing this. They don't put a normal 2.5" HDD in theirs. They have special 2.5"" HDDs in theirs which have the USB connector as part of the drive so if your connector fails (after repated insertion / disconnection) you're stuffed. You can't get your data back easily if at all. This drive has a ordinary 2.5"" SATA HDD inside it.
5|this is perfect for keeping a copy of photos/music/videos on for carrying around. Taking its power through the USB cable it does not require any bulky power cables and plugs directly into the computer. I formatted mine as FAT32 so that it could also be plugged into the PS3 and the TV and have had no issues with the access speed. Formatting as FAT32 does mean there is a file size limit of 4GB but unless you are copying long HD video clips this should not be an issue. Only 1 minor negative so far, the length of the cable means it does not rest on the table if the USB port is high up. This has been rectified by using a longer cable purchased from Amazon for a few pounds.
4|Such a handy tool to have with you. I defiantly know i will be using this for ever and cannot not by way from it without backing up valuable data. I had no problems with installing Seagate software and was impressed with the features that it contain. Defiantly worth the paper
5|I deal with large amounts of image data and have used 2 of these blue drives, each for a different project, I also have a couple of black disks which I use to mirror the working disks, I use a Mac so start by re formatting the drives and that's all I have to do, they run at a reasonable temperature, are silent and fast enough. no problems yet and they are incredibly small and easy to take out when visiting clients, collecting and delivering shots. Also the USB3 cable is very solid and does not disconnect like the old Firewire cables were prone to do if something moved. I like these disks and hope they prove to be reliable long term. …………..John
4|This is a really slim and compact hard drive that has a huge capacity for the price. It's fast and quiet, and great value (although it has to be said that prices for memory are getting lower all the time). The preinstalled software is easy to install and use, and as well as being compatible with Mac and PC, it works on the Google Chromebook too. It has no independent power supply, but depends on getting it from the computer it is connected to. 1TB is more than sufficient for almost anybody - you could easily put hundreds of HD films on here with no problem at all. If you use your mobile a lot, I'd consider getting a drive with Wifi functionality, as you'll be able to transfer and watch via your phone, and it makes the process a lot simpler.
3|Very good price for what it is. Very small and sleek. Not sure how its going to cope if its dropped though as its literally just a drive with a thin aluminium skin one side and plastic underneath. Speed wise 90 MB/s on MS Surface Pro USB 3 port 29.4 MB/s on my PCs USB2 port 0.5 MB/s on my PCs front USB 1 port so its speedy but not that amazing after what they say USB 3 is supposed to be capable of. Of course this could the speed of the drive in the case rather than an over statement of USB 3 transfer speeds as such. I may update the speeds using another drive and another case when I get hold of such.
4|I've used a few Seagate external hard drives in the past and found them all to be simple, reliable and easy to use. With an easy plug and play feature, no fuss or hassle. It's small enough to fit nicely in a pocket or laptop back without taking much room. My only reservation was that I took a while to install the dashboard features. It's a great bit of kit, but with a lot of these types of devices if there is anything to worry about it's the unique usb wire, that could be a problem if lost/damaged. I wish they would use more conventional fittings. A small gripe for a nice item.
4|This drive is quite small, just slightly thicker than Seagate's own Slim STCD drives. The on-going question about the lack of an internal SATA connection IS worth mentioning but in practice this will affect only a tiny fraction of potential users. If you need a 2.5" SATA then there are cheaper ways to get one. In the past I have been thankful for the easily accessible SATA connection to be found at the back of recent Seagate drives. So, judging this drive on its merits solely as external backup, then how does it do? Fine, if nothing special. Traditional external hard drives (as opposed to SSD drives) are pretty much commodity items by this stage so you're looking for reliability and software to distinguish them. Reliability is a hard thing to judge but Seagate didn't get the reputation they have by accident. So that leaves the software. Seagate have taken to including video tutorials on there last many drives and it's a very user-friendly introduction, though entirely unnecessary if you remotely know what you're doing. The actual back-up software that Seagate are now packaging has been refined over the last couple of years and I have to admit it's getting to the point where it's not bad. They've had a focus on social media for years, which is quaint, but the actual backup software is now very usable. You can, of course, completely ignore the bundled software, delete it off the drive and just treat it as dumb storage, or integrate it into your existing backup program. Solid, pocketable drive that does the job.
5|I used to be one of those optimistic individuals who thought that "backing up" a computer was just something that techies folks did. Then, about half way through a Masters degree course in 2004, my Mac went into a permanent sleep and I lost all my data. That included movies, animations and sound files, all created by me, so there was no possibility of simply downloading them again and - as I had never done a proper back-up - I was royally stuffed. After many, many hours of unnecessary extra work I was back where I had been months before, and the first thing I did them was buy two back up drives and make sure I copied everything from that point on, twice. I relate this short tale simply to point up how essential I think that back-ups are. I have, over the years, become something of an expert on back-up discs - and was really pleased to have the opportunity to review this diminutive Seagate drive. It really is tiny and slim, and - as you can see from the photograph I have uploaded - it is not much bigger than an iPhone 3. It is pretty much a 'plug-n-play' device, and you can either use it as a Mac and PC or as a Mac only drive. I tried it as a Mac/PC drive first and it worked fine on a range of laptops (Sony Vaio, Toshiba Satellite) and then I wiped it and hooked it up to the 'Time Machine' facility on my MacBook Pro. It took about 6 hours to back up around 300 GB of data in Time Machine mode, but my Mac only has USB 2, so USB 3 should be faster. Depending on which review you read, USB 3 should be anything from 3 to 10 times quicker. It is also small and innocuous enough to slip into a bookcase or somewhere else - well away from your computer - so that it can be used to reclaim data in the unlikely event that your computer is lost or stolen at some point. I have had a laptop stolen from my suitcase on a train, and I can tell you it is a lot less traumatic if you have all your data safely backed up and ready to load straight onto your replacement machine. Back in 2004 my first external hard drive backup devices cost several hundreds of pounds each; these days you will get change from a hundred pounds for a really good quality and small drive like this one. One point to note is that the connector cable, whilst being very good, as it carries everything you need (Data and electricity) in one cable, needs to be kept in a safe place, as it is not a 'standard' USB fitting.
4|This is a good Seagate drive and, being a premium product, it is at a premium price. It is well made and reasonably fast. On a USB 2.0 I achieved 20Mbyte/s write speed and 30Mbyte/s read speed under Windows 8. However, on a USB 3.0 connection, I managed to get over 100Mbtyes/s - a cracking speed, especially for a portable drive. If you are not sure what type of ports you have, the tongue on the PC is colour coded as black for USB 2.0 and blue for USB 3.0. The points of note: - other reviewers have mentioned the cable being a special to type. When I looked closely at it, I could see that half of the fitting was a microUSB. So I tried running with one of these standard cables rather than the supplied cable to see if I could get around having to carry the special cable with me. Although the drive powered up and the PC gave its usual "plunk-plunk" noise as the drive powered up, it was never recongnised by the PC. Using the provided cable worked fine. An idea, but it didn't work. - the capacity of the drive is significantly short of the 500Gbytes claimed (it is about 465Gbytes) - the difference being the difference of view between 1024 and 1000 (if you are a techie, you'll understand this) - the backup software looks good, however it only recognises the Seagate drive as the only externally connected drive, whereas I have an array of difference manufacturers. This means it cannot be used a general purpose backup solution. Based on this I am sticking to the excellent backup software provided by Arcsoft with my Hitachi disk drive (which even recognises my network cloud storage). So overall summary: - a good and well made drive with reasonable speeds - special cable required (so carry it around extra and don't lose it) - software not really worth having - blistering speed if connected to a USB 3.0 port. This gives and overall of 4 stars (maybe a full 5 stars if you have USB 3.0 ports). Recommended.
4|Purchased this just over a year ago and I'm quite happy with it. In fact, I've just purchased the 2 terabyte version. However, I did encounter problems that others should beware of. I needed it for backing up my Windows Vista PC, which only has USB 2 ports. I accepted that I would not get the benefits of the drive's USB 3 status but did not expect it to be too bad. However, my backups turned out to be considerably slower; taking over 4 days in fact! I purchased an Inateck PCI-E USB 3 Expansion Card, hoping to resolve the problem. In one sense it did. Backups now took around 4 to 5 hours. Unfortunately, after a few successes, the PC kept losing its connection to the drive. As this did not happen straight away, I suspected that it was a heat problem somewhere. I was getting the same problems, when I was copying a large number of files to or from the drive. I guessed that it might be that the drive and expansion card were struggling with power. The drive does not have its own power supply and I suspected that it was not getting enough power from the card, so I purchased an Inateck Mini Portable 4 Port USB 3 Expansion Hub with its 5V 4A Power Adaptor. I have not had any problems since and my backups seem to have been even quicker. If you are thinking of buying this drive, think about how you expect to use it. If usage is likely to be heavy, either factor in the extra expence of the additional hardware that you might need or buy a more expensive drive with its own power supply. In the end, I am quite happy, because I would probably have wanted to buy the card and the hub some time anyway.
3|How firms can sell products virtually without any instruction si beyond me. The quick start guide is pathetic, basically it just tells you to connect it and leaves the rest to you.. When you look for a proper user guide in the software there isn't one, just the same quick guide that comes up so small on the screen you need a magnifying glass. I am not a computer novice so I got it working and backed up all my files, it took forever. This left me with two problems, the software installs a dashboard that seems to making my laptop run very slow at start up and seems to be acting like another security check when updating programs or opening files. I am hoping this slow speed effect is due to the continuous back up setting (changed it to monthly schedule) so time will tell if that works. The last problem is that I registered the product and created an account with Seagate, which they have verified and emailed back re the registration and the account. However when I try to access the account it says that this is not a verified email account, despite the 6 emails they have sent to that address. This is an issue as without access it is impossible to access the mobile phone back up function or load the iPhone app to do it. I emailed Seagate but there response both seems to not understand the problems and provide little help but just a list of items without saying what and how to do it. Looks like good product spoilt by poor documentation and no understanding of an actual customers needs.. Update 24/10/2015 DPD Courier has just collected the Seagate 1tb. Could not get the Dashboard to work properly also despite 2 setups and contacting Seagate could not get Seagate to recognise the account set up and therefore this make it impossible to get it to back up my mobile as the app refuses access. The software was also doing weird things to my laptop which went back to normal once removed fully using Revo uninstaller. Amazon were really great (no hassle, speedy, efficient) in handling the return. As it was the Seagate software that seems to be the issue I have now ordered a 2tb Seagate Expansion PHD from Amazon which gives me twice the storage for just a few £'s more without the hassle of the software. If you just want a simple to use back up PHD I would recommend forgetting the complexity of the ones with software that you have to use with a plan that cripples your PC and seems to have problems (reading other feedback).
4|First of all it should be noted that the description is cheekily following the increasingly frequent tendency of using powers of ten rather than powers of two in the definition of Gb. Thus "500Gb" in actual fact equals around 465Gb in the old money. It is certainly slimmer and lighter than the other earlier model Seagate drive I have, Seagate STCD500400 500GB Slim USB 3.0 2.5 inch External Hard Drive, but not by much. Frankly this slight shrinking of size makes little difference to me and I can't see that it would to most people. It's not much of a selling point in itself I would have thought. I had no problems using it with my Windows 7 laptop: it's simply a case of plug in and away you go (the "quick start guide" indicating step 1: insert connector into drive, step 2: insert USB into PC almost seems condescending). With USB 3.0, transfer speeds are fast. The connector is reassuringly solid; with some drives I have had there is a tendency for the connector to fall out of the drive easily if moving laptop and drive around, but this one stays firmly in place. The drive has some installable "dashboard" software to save photos et. al. from Facetube and Twitbook if you are into that kind of thing, plus the ability to set scheduled backups. The software is installed to launch at startup; the tray icon allows you to change this setting yet it is still clearly running even if you turn this setting off. Yet more bloatware for your PC it seems. Personally I will employ with manual drag and drop, thank you.
5|I've been using this harddrive to store my raw photo collection to use with Lightroom. Extremelly lightweight, yet has the desired performance, even on USB2.0 interface. Would recommend to others to purchase
5|I have been looking for a drive like this for some time as I wanted something that was good for travel but would also offer a large storage capacity and this drive was the perfect fit. The huge 4tb capacity coupled with the relatively small size is amazing and the fact that it requires no additional power supply unlike it larger desktop equivalent makes it an ideal travel companion. The speed of the drive over USB 3.0 is also impressive. It operates just as fast as my other USB 3.0 external drives with speeds that often exceed 100MB/s but I expect it could perform even better on a more modern PC. Although there is nothing particularly special about the design and build of the casing of the drive, it does feel solid and well made and it operates almost silently. Sadly I am only using the drive for drag and drop purposes so I have not tested the backup software that is provided by seagate, but from what I have read elsewhere it works well. One thing to think about when buying a drive like this is that HDD's are very sensitive to knocks and vibration, so a portable 4tb drives leaves you open to the potential of huge data loss. Because of this would advise anyone to make sure they have a backup of important data, especially if you intend to use the drive on the go where it is more likely to get damaged. All in all an excellent drive, which has so far performed very well. Highly recommended
5|Not a lot to say, because you just connect it and it does its stuff. Probably does more than I need it to, but I just wanted to increase my laptop storage with something I could take around from computer to computer. So small you could slip it into your pocket. Don't be afraid of the RED colour (other colours are available) because the bright colour helps to make sure you won't leave it on the train seat or on the bar, or between the cushions on your sofa. I could wish that the connecting cable was longer, but you can manage anyway.
5|Seagate STCD500204 Slim 500GB USB 3.0 2.5 inch Portable Hard Drive - Silver As soon as I opened the box I was impressed by the design and quality of this product. It was also exceedingly light with superb portability and could easily fit into a handbag. The USB lead from the Seagate was just over a foot long so not great if like me you have a desktop computer tower that sits on the floor and you wish to have the Seagate sit on a desk. As soon as the Seagate was plugged in,the computer recognized it and it was ready to go. I immediately tried copying and pasting and also 'send to' and it worked perfectly transferring large raw images very quickly. I then decided to try backing up and I noted that the software was Nero Auto Back Up. Brilliant I thought but when asked to pay £39.99 for 25 gb of space for 12 months or a free 3 months 1GB free trial, I opted out. I did a search on my computer and found that Windows 7 installed on my computer could back up to the Seagate at no cost. This was done very easily and perfectly. Seagate Slim only has 500 GB storage so bear this in mind when buying as many computers come with 1TB or more and this can easily be filled up especially if you have a camera which produces large files. Maybe I should have taken off a star for the software not being free but this machine so impressed me I have left the rating as 5 stars.
5|Beautiful little drive, very fast (20% faster than similarly spec'ed Expansion and WD Elements drives on a bulk copy), and uncluttered by lots of unnecessary software. I run Linux, not Windoze, and it plugged and played right out of the box without fuss. I particularly like the metal top which looks nice, makes it feel "solid" and, for those who are into sensory pleasure, gives a nice vibration if you touch it while it's running. It's also quite a bit smaller than either of the drives mentioned - although not lighter. Two minor gripes, which I would take half a star off for if I could: (1) The indicator light *does* show when it's transmitting data, but with a slow "breathing" style that isn't immediately obvious. (2) All drives have the same volume name, which means that you can run into problems if you try to mount two of them on the same Linux system (not sure if it's a problem with Windows). It's not alone in this though: WD Elements has the same issue. But taking a whole star away would be too much, as this is a *spectacular* drive for the price (£63). My two also came with 200Gb of free online "cloud" storage each (which I assume means that I get 400) with OneDrive for two years, which may be a factor for those with lots of family videos to share. Haven't tried using it as yet myself. Winston
5|I know this drive is marketed as "slim," and "the thinnest ever" etc and I also know that I'm usually let down by my own expectations. However, not this time! This is one of the rare events when I was actually surprised as it is much thinner than I was expecting. Per the official measurements, it is just less than 1cm thick. The overall size of it also means that it could quite conceivably fit into nearly everyone's pocket - unless you have ridiculously small pockets. I also presume that this hard drive is a solid state drive, as it is completely noiseless, and this would also explain how they have been able to get it so small. However, I have not been able to find any information to either prove or disprove this theory. Being compatible with USB3.0 is also very handy, however, not much use for me at present as I don't have a computer currently compatible with USB3.0. Maybe I will at some point in the future... There is also a piece of software which comes with the hard drive to enable the user to save pictures and videos to Facebook, and also to publish to Facebook as well. However, given that I don't like the software, I don't intend to use it. I also won't let this sway my decision on the hard drive itself and it is completely usable without it.
5|What could be simpler, just plug it in and away you go. With its huge 4TB capacity this drive can be used to store all your favourite pics and videos and still have room to spare. Ideal as a back-up - just keep it plugged in to your computer and set it to automatically back up each time. This gives both peace of mind and somewhere safe to hold your personal files. I have used Seagate for years and have never had any issues with them. Highly recommended.
5|Very pleased with the drive, it's quick, quiet and (so far) 100% reliable! At £119.99 (mid-Dec 2015) it's the cheapest 4TB portable available. Two year warranty gives a bit of peace of mind, though who would return a physically faulty drive with all their personal data on it? I decided to encrypt the drive using TruCrypt (or you can use Microsoft's BitLocker), so the data would not be [easily] recoverable by someone looking at the drive after I return it.
5|Opened it up as soon as I received it, and then swapped it with my PS4. I now have a 2tb PS4 and a 500gb portable hard drive. I am very happy with this purchase.
1|Bought two of these. One failed within 24 hours destroying an entire day of music recording. I therefore have zero confidence in the other one so will be returning both. I just hope Seagate can recover the files from the failed drive, but of course they expect me to pay for that! I'd suggest paying more for a more robust drive rather than one focused on making it small and cheap. Shame as it's a very handy size to carry around with you.
5|Plugged the Seagate into my MacBook and it asked me if I wanted it to be my Time Machine. Easy as that. A Blue box that's a time machine. And so much bigger on the inside. Tickled all my boxes.
5|This is a great little external hard drive from Seagate, good color! I bought this as a gift and I know that they will love this as it's very portable and useful to carry around with you. It's lightweight and fits into a small space in a backpack, briefcase etc. At 1TB with the new 3.0 USB generation, what more could one ask? Oh, I know! Buying it on Amazon was around £30 cheaper than elsewhere! Thanks Amazon.... 5 Stars *****
3|Will anyone be able to answer why the used space is understandably? 385mb but the free space is only 465GB we are losing an hell of a lot of GB
5|I've already filled this external hard drive with about 1TB of data. Just as an interesting aspect, the actual size of the disk is 1.86GB. I've managed to copy the 1TB (mainly photos and 4K movies) in less than 2 hours, which is really good. When copying smaller size files I've noticed the transfer can drop to around 20 MB/s, while for the larger files (4K videos) the transfer speed has gone up to about 130 MB/s. In terms of size, I find this hard drive to be very compact, slim and lightweight. It has a really nice feel to it and I liked the fact you can purchase them in different colours, which makes it easier to distinguish them if you buy more than one. Overall, I think the disk delivers more than adequate performance and, considering the solid build and the relatively good price, I can definitely recommend it to anyone looking to buy an external hard drive with a capacity of 2TB (I wouldn't recommend the 1TB version as the price difference is too small). However, I do recommend investing in a case as well as the hard drive is not shock or water proof and it can be easily damaged if dropped.
5|I have mac book pro so easy just plug in and back up ! This product is very light !
5|I would have liked some instructions with this hard drive. A picture of the device being plugged in isn't nearly enough! After watching a demo on You Tube I found the Drive to be very simple to use and transferred all my data from my old computer over to my new computer without any difficulty. Really only about two clicks to transfer photos etc. to the Seagate backup. It looks good too.
5|This is a lovely looking drive, and it really did surprise me just how small it is. Compare to my iPhone 5 it is about the same thickness and height and only a bit wider. The brushed metal look is also very nice. There is a small "gouge-like" mark at the top which houses a light which glows when the drive is powered. The drive connects via USB 3.0 so it is nice and fast. My only issue is the unique USB interface on the drive itself. Seems to be some adaptation of USB mini. I've looked around for replacement cables and can't find them anywhere. So if you lose the supplied cable it may prove difficult to find another. Your best bet would be to speak to Seagate I guess. [EDIT - I have since found out that this new interface is the new USB 3.0 mini interface. I just hadn't seen it before. You can pick replacement cables up for under £10 so I have changed my rating up to 5 stars] Overall this is a small and stylish hard drive which can handle fast transfer rates and has a decent capacity.
1|Sadly, I bought this because I understood from the product description that I could simply plug it in to my W7 laptop and my Mac and easily back up and retrieve. No such luck with Mac. Doubtless there's some way of doing it but how...? (It cannot be beyond the wit of tech to design an agnostic back up drive - after all the humble USB stick seems happy with both?)
5|Can't fault this drive. I originally purchased the WD Ultra 2TB but failed to work at USB3 speeds on my machine so returned it and purchased this one instead. It's about half the thickness of the WD and the write speeds are much better than I was expecting. Another USB3 drive I have gives me arund 50MB/s but I get sustained of more than 100MB/s from this one.
5|This Seagate hard drive is a lot smaller than I imagined. The first thing to note is it's based on a 2.5" drive which is the sort they put in laptops, whereas PC drives are more chunky. I don't think its a standard laptop hard drive inside though, because the unit is deeper than I'd expect it to be, at around 1.5cm thick, same as a "light reading train station bookshop paperback" or I suppose for those of you who don't remember those, it's something like the dimensions of a couple of chocolate bars side by side. The case looks slick but is just plastic. Personally I have no problem with that but it's not as "sleek" as some I've seen. But I would assume those aren't 4TB. Windows reports it as "3.63TB free" by the way. This is something to do with the way they count kilobytes as 1000 bytes instead of 1024, and megabytes, and by the time you get past gigabytes to terabytes, you've lost what seems to be almost 20% of the 4TB you bought. I forget exactly how this works, but it's fairly common to "lose" disk space this way, don't be surprised. 3.63TB seemed very low though! Transfer speed on large files is 29MB/s on my laptop using usb 3.0 ports. If yours isn't that "quick" (it's not that quick actually! I'd have liked 50+MB/s but whatever...might be my setup so your mileage may vary) then try making sure its the "blue" ports you're plugging into and not black coloured ones, as those are usb 2. If you have no blue ports, then, well....bad luck :) I can't at this stage comment on robustness or longevity, I know I've had a LOT of problems with old seagate disks but that was then and this is now. You can be sure I'll be back to update this if the disk fails though! :) Oh, one last thing, ignore the "setup.exe" on plugging the disk in, its just a link to register the disk, do it later if you want I guess. The link didn't even work for me, went to a 404 page, so...er....fail :) Maybe they'll fix it.
5|The best thing about USB hard drives such as this one is their sheer portability. It's so easy to carry mountains of photographs, videos, films etc using these compact and quiet memory banks that I now have a number of them in various sizes and brands. The older ones were much smaller in capacity but larger physically - I've just compared this model with an older Seagate drive that I have. That one was a little bit bigger and weighed 30g more (approximately half of a Mars bar) but held just 320GB. My main laptop has 1.2TB of hard drive space and this little Seagate drive means that I can comfortably copy everything over to it as a back-up or to share my files with friends and family. Transfer speeds seem to be good for a drive like this thanks to the USB 3.0 connector, and compare very favourably with other drives I've tested. Software installation is not necessary - you just plug it in and in seconds it's ready to use. It does come complete with some Seagate software pre-loaded on it but you're not forced to use it. I would have liked the drive to come with a storage pouch but instead I'm using the case of a small camera to keep it safe. Although it's pretty tough the life of an external hard drive can be severely shortened by rough treatment so it's always worth protecting them from knocks. I have no real complaints about this Seagate external hard drive. It works without a separate power supply, is very quiet in operation, connects easily and performs well - it's excellent!
5|Owner of several Seagate hard drives it has to be said they're coming out with an ever more attractive range of hard drives for consumers, with the drive available in four colours to suit! ** Please note that the Amazon listing price on the different colours of this hard drive appear to vary when I checked pricing for different sizes - don't get caught out ** 12.1mm in depth this back up drive is slim as a biro casing a 2.5 inch hard drive (smaller width that standard 3.5 inch hard drives found inside PCs), powered by the USB and is easily pocketable, if you can excuse the sticky-outy cable you need to carry too. As with most Seagate portable drives it comes with Seagate software loaded on the drive for Windows and PC: This is great for people looking for a one-stop double-click stop to backing up all their stuff in one. Included in the Seagate software after a login to your social networks is the ability to back up all your Facebook and Flickr photos straight to the drive (say, should your Facebook account get hacked), or you can upload everything straight from the drive meaning all your holiday memories are consolidated somewhere both online and offline. Of course, installation of the branded software is optional, and the fact it's plug and play means once drivers are installed it's good to go and appears as another drive on your desktop to reformat if you wish, then click and drag files on to, simple. A USB3 compatible speed means that transferring all your data is quick if you have a compatible connection on your PC, though it is also compatible with the slower USB2 which is more widely used on older computers. All in all great spare space for anyone with a hard drive clogged up with too many holiday memories, just take heed of the various prices Amazon lists different sizes at! The "professional" issue with the drive is the connection is not USM / SATA compatible but the slim USB3 output. If that means nothing to you, don't worry! If you want a USM connection however I believe the model you want is a Seagate Expansion drive.
4|Early days to judge a HD but it is a well finished, virtually silent, compact, robust looking item (I don't intend to test the robustness!) To be a bit picky, I find the USB port on the top of the unit a bit strange - can't see a reason for it. Most importantly, its doing its job and I am gaining confidence in it as time passes.
5|First thing I have to mention about this product is the size, although I knew it was on the way, I was very confused when the postman put a small package through my letter box, I actually thought I had ordered something else which I had forgotten about, its tiny! Once you have removed the packaging, it will amaze you as to how small it is! It is a USB 3 drive which means the read/write speeds are nice and fast, the supplied cable is not the longest and I was sad to see Seagate have once again favoured a proprietary connector to the hard drive.. maybe these decisions are taken due to the devices size, I don't know although it does means its yet another lead you have to carry around with you! All the documentation can be found on the drive which reduces packaging. Due to the devices small form factor, its perfect to use in the car connected to a USB head unit, it can easily be hidden out of the way. Highly recommended.
4|I have no gripes with the product - it does what it says on the box. My only issue is with the pre-installed platform as it Mac OS X functionality is restricted. Still, it works seamlessly with Time Machine. Definitely worth considering if you're in the market for an inexpensive yet solid storage option.
5|very good value and designed well, good value for the price paid,easy to use and loads on to pc on its own
5|In the past I have always bought Seagate Drives as they have always been reliable, fast and great for the money; this is no exception. Pros: - Comes pre-formatted with NTFS (but I always do it myself when I get new drives anyway) - I get speeds of around 110-120 MBytes/s Read & Write speeds on both Mac OSX & Windows 10 with USB 3.0. (Check screenshot) - Connector feels robust and not loose like other manufacturers. - Cable feels quality. - Case of the drive feels solid and it is metal on the top and rubber/plastic for the base. - Light pulses to say it is being accessed but it is not that bright. - Very quiet. Cons: - The cable is a bit short so make sure it doesn't have to stretch far. - If you want to use it on Mac OSX either install Paragon NTFS for Mac or reformat with FAT32 (file size restrictions will apply then). Highly recommended drive!
5|If you want a spare hard drive that you can slip into your pocket or handbag, this one is ideal. Its 500Gb capacity makes it ideal to hold, say, films or large documents that you need to carry about with you or simply back up the important files on your computer's hard drive. The drive installed with no problems, simply plug and play. The Dashboard software that comes with it is not necessary for use but acts as a useful automated backup tool which identifies data files and backs them up as and when required. It is quite flexible as to what is backed up and when and automatically copies across new and amended files as appropriate. Personally I prefer to keep control of this myself and you can just use the normal cut/copy and paste commands if you wish to. The USB 3.0 interface means that large files are copied quickly. Overall, an excellent and highly versatile product.
5|Cheapest way to get a samsung Spinpoint M9T 2TB drive. Just split the case (no tools required), and save yourself £10 over a plain hard drive. You then get a good usb3 to sata caddy for free, bonus! Actually used it as-is for external storage on PS3. NOTE - you will need a USB2 Y-lead to supply enough current on a PS3. Without it HDD will spin up and down causing sector damage after a while. With the Y-lead works perfectly. Y-lead not required for USB3 usage, only on older USB2 systems. Cons Dual power / activity light; Pulses very slowly while HDD is being accessed, which is very hard to spot at a glance. Would have preferred a more obvious indication of activity. Unfortunately most caddies are the same ie form over function. Not likely to find one with a seperate power and activity LED, but its still annoying!
5|So I was shopping around for a backup solution for my macbook, i needed something to go with time machine. The seagate hard drives appeared to have the best reviews and were constantly recommended. Finding a good portable backup hard drive can be a daunting task i needed something small, quiet and very fast. This hard drive checked all of those boxes and in addition it was compatible with a MAC and very stable. I have had this a few months and it is perfect, i dont have anything bad to say about it. All of my backups are handled easily i just plug it in and hit backup and its done. I have autobackup set up too so i dont have any worries about losing my work. This hard drive replaces the 250GB WD i already own, the capacity is just too small for my needs. I'm debating buying another one of these for storage, possibly a 4TB version as i only intend to use this one for my time machine backups.
5|I bought this Seagate drive to use with Time Capsule on a mac. The MacOS installer, which is supposed to reformat the drive and restore the bundled software, didn't work for me with Mac OS X (10.10.1) Yosemite. The software installer window was garbled on screen but I managed click the right icon to run the installer which gave me two options - one for Mac and Windows compatibility and the other for Mac use including Time Capsule so I selected that, the dialog disappeared and nothing happened - I tried a couple of times before giving up. Following the support doc (referenced in the quickstart instructions) to the Seagate website it was easy to reformat the drive using the standard Mac Disk utility software to Mac OS Extended (Journaled) and it works perfectly with Time Capsule. It's neat, quiet and doesn't require separate power supply so gets the job done.
1|I bought the 'Back Up Plus' to replace a 'Seagate FreeAgent Go' which had worked splendidly with Windows 7 but couldn't/wouldn't function with Windows 10. However, guess what, this one didn't like W10 either? After hours of changing settings and this and that I it did manage to get it to back up my recycle bin - but nothing else. The device came with a pair of built-in back up programmes which, once expired, asked me to pay to renew them... naughty Mr Seagate. My struggles to get it to work properly was made worse by Seagate's 'Help' site which maybe comprehensible to nerds - but to me it was gibberish. I have sent it back, in a comfy box, to the nice people at Amazon and shall search for another, maybe a Toshiba or Samsung device but not another Seagate product thank you. For what it's worth, the Duronic HDC2 EVA case which I bought with it was very good....
2|The disk is small, neat, quiet, seems quick enough (I don't think I have USB3) and works for file transfer right out of the box But the backup software doesn't work. It detects a completely different serial number to the one in the registration file and on the back of the disk (which registered fine) and so it decides the disk is an out of warranty maxtor hard disk drive; and none of the backup functions will work. Also that makes me nervous I won't be able to get any firmware updates. Seagate support recommend multiple re-installs - that hasn't work so far. The disk fulfills its main purpose which is to backup my PC and the backup software is not essential, so for me personally this is probably 3 stars. But it's advertised as having software that does not work. So two stars it is. Expect a rise to 4/5 stars if the backup software is fixed.
3|This is a very useful backup drive but I discovered I could buy this from Maplin for £10 less!!
5|I bought this to get a hard drive that was capable of fitting into my PS4. This external drive is the Seagate Spinpoint M9T 2TB drive which is one of the few (possibly only?) 2TB drives that currently fit in the PS4. Removing the casing was straightforward, I used a guitar pick to loosen off the top panel and remove it. No special tools are required to remove the drive form the casing, just search for a video on youtube and you will see how easy it is. The internal drive came out very easily and is now working away in my PS4. I've been running it for 4 months now with no issues. I did test it before I opened up the case and it worked well. As expected it transferred files over USB 3.0 nice and quickly. At the time it was some £60 cheaper than buying the Spinpoint M9T 2TB in its internal form. I'm glad I went for this instead.
5|This is the fourth Seagate Backup Harddrive I have purchased. I keep coming back to them because they are slim, easy to use, easy to carry round, work quickly and are great. I have a mixture of 1TB and 2TB harddrives which I use to store photographs and university work on. I have recently purchased this one as on my last one the usb cable has become bent and the Harddrive slow due to dropping it a couple of times and so I am transferring everything over on to a new one to be on the safe side. I would and have recommended these to several of my friends on my course and they also say the same good things about that. I would certainly buy more in the future, as touch wood I have never had any problems with them other than those I have caused. Prices are better on Amazon that in other shops, and it works perfectly with my Mac, and the Macs at University.
5|Through the last few years, I have owned a number of hard drives. This one stands out as soon as you open the packaging. At a centimetre in depth, it is amazingly slim to everything else I have owned. The brushed metal case makes the product look really nice. It comes with a short USB 3 connection cable, and is easy to use (just plug in and play). The really useful feature compared to my other drives, is that use can use it directly between PC's and Macs. The device comes with dashboard software to automatically back up files, although I just `drag and drop', the files as required onto the device. I have found the storage speed impressive, and have also used it to back up files off my freeview recorder. Whilst time will tell over its longevity, and perhaps its initial price point is slightly high, my initial feeling is that this is an excellent product.
5|Worked straight away with no problems so far. Seen a few reviews critical of Seagate but I have an older 320GB USB2 one which has been in constant use for five years, no issues. I don't use their backup software so can't comment on that. Yes, the supplied stuff on it does reduce the capacity a bit but what's a few bytes out of 1TB? This USB3 drive is very fast compared to my old one - files appear as quickly as on the C drive! One point though - I don't use these as portable, just permanently connected to USB - it could be that the people who have problems move them around. Though that is what they are intended for(!) but as I don't use them in that way, I can't comment on whether they are stable or not if you do. As back up or for keeping files on a separate drive, without the need for a another power lead, it is great.
4|i purchased this item to back up / download video from my security camera's, unfortunately the item is not compatible with my Swann DVR according to Swann help desk. However i intend to keep the item as i am sure it will come in useful for other items that i need to back up.
5|This is my second Seagate Slim portable hard drive. Brilliant product, love how small it is! Very handy for any Mac or PC computer. 2TB is more than enough space for what I need (films, music etc) Definitely a top end product, the price reflects it well.
5|A very good slim and compact unit. Ideal for travelling with photograph files you may want to show to friends and relatives. I would recommend this Portable drive to anyone not wanting to carry the entire works of the Encyclopaedia Britannica around with them.
3|Very nice drive, fairly small However the connector at the drive end is a little insecure, so any vibration can cause the drive to become unavailable If you get this drive, make sure when you use it you do not knock the cable/drive during use
5|The Seagate Slim portable drive is a marvel. Roughly the same thickness as an iPhone 5, and feeling very durable (a modern looking brushed metallic design with a black plastic bottom), this is a truly portable back-up / storage solution. Small enough to put in your pocket (you can't say that of most portable hard drives), the Seagate Slim portable drive is the perfect option to back up your precious photos, music and personal documents, without a brick sized piece of plastic sitting on your desk. The drive also has USB3 functionality, which I cannot test on my older computer. Using a Windows 7 PC, data transferred quickly and whilst not the largest storage capacity (just under 500 GB) for the size and convenience, it easily beats my bulky 1TB drive.
5|I purchased the 1Tb Seagate Backup Plus USB 3.0 disk (STDR1000200) to use as backup storage for my laptop. This disk is very compact, and with USB 3.0 it's very fast, as expected. In the few days I've been using it so far it has performed very well indeed, and given Seagate's reputation I expect it will continue to do so for years to come. Recommended. (Note: I can't comment on the supplied Seagate backup/"Dashboard" software as I don't use it - for security I've encrypted the entire disk using Truecrypt, and I prefer to manage my own backups manually using 'robocopy' from a Windows command prompt. I've bought a number of other Seagate external disks in the past and in my experience, both personally and in my IT job, I've found them to be the most reliable.)
5|The first thing you'll notice about this particular disk is how light and small it is, which makes it feel great in your hand. The front of the disk is made of polished aluminum, whereas the sides and the back are made of plastic. It comes with a great NTFS drive too, which comes handy if you work outside the Mac environment. It is also very reliable, as you can see from the Internet. The downside about the disk is its capacity offering of 500GB; some users might be forced to look for alternatives because it might not be enough. All in all, make no mistake: this is one of the best external disks on the market.
5|Perfect for the PS4 having looked up on youtube for the best drive, I bought this, also looking on tube to see how to open the case ready for installation into my PS4, this was the part i was dreading but before i went rooting out my tools, i ran my thumb nail around the rim and to my surprise part of the lid popped up so away i went running my nail around, the lid came off perfect and after installing the drive to my PS4 i used the empty case to house the 500gb drive, The Pc didnt seem to like the 500gb drive at first so i used Pc tools to delete all of the partitions then I formated the drive NTFS and after using guiformat to FAT32 now i have 2tb in the PS4 and 500gb usb for my Ps3..........very happy
2|While I have other Seagate external HD and have had no problem with them. I have had problem with this unit from first week of use. The first unit I received after a week noticed that it has erased all the backed-up files and folders. I had to reformat the drive and start from scratch. Eventually returned it and received a replacement unit. The second unit does not like USB2 connection and it takes ages to back-up 10GB. I had to leave the back-up overnight. Seagate Dashboard has been useless it keeps registering in its log that cannot complete back-ups. Overall, using Windows 7 and 8 on computers with USB2, I have had problems with this HD. Therefore, I have considered returning it.
5|This drive is the ideal new back-up drive for my new iMac (2014)! Time machine started up and the drive became the back-up after about 45minutes of coping all my files! Slim light weight body and fast good purchase.
5|I am a fan of Seagate drives and own a fair few. However, I was keen to try another as I do believe you should keep many back ups of your precious files, in my case, photos. The packaging is tiny. These things are getting smaller all the time! It contains one very thin drive and the accompanying USB cable. The drive is nice looking, brushed metal that goes well with my MacBook Pro. Set up is a matter of plugging in the cable and off you go. 500GB these days is next to nothing so it's not going to hold a huge amount but it does its job well and is a neat little drive for quick back ups. A great little piece of equipment, Seagate does it again.
5|This item arrived sooner than promised and has provided a reliable portable mass storage addition for my laptop. I am very pleased with the service and the performance associatewith this purchase.
4|WARNING if you are a mac user, this unit does not come mac friendly. It mounts on desktop OK but there is NO DRAG AND DROP facility, read permission only, ludicrous for an external hard drive. I installed the dashboard and still same problem, so don't bother to install. After a lot of kerfuffle I discovered that you have to download Paragon NTFS driver for Seagate. You can get tho here: http://www.seagate.com/gb/en/support/downloads/item/ntfs-driver-for-mac-os-master-dl/ Once done it works fine and is quite quick on USB. But it does slow your computer down a bit when copying. Would have 5 stars if it were not for this hassle.
2|I remember purchasing a Seagate Backup many years ago. I wanted a 2TB portable (I usually buy Clickfree but the cost of a 2TB portable was high.) so because it was a lot cheaper I decided to buy Seagate. Now I remember why I changed to Clickfree. I don't like the layout of the Backup and the procedure of the backup. But to be honest, there is no security. This is very important to me and should be to everyone. It is not password protected so if it fell into the wrong hands it only has to be connected to a computer and off it goes, open for all to see. Seagate Backup should really be password protected. So its back to Clickfree for me.
4|While this worked well out of the box as a USB external drive, it didn't work when extracted from the enclosure (as an internal drive). It wasn't detected in a 2009 HP DV8-1080ea laptop, even with the latest firmware. Strangely, was detected in an older 2008 HP HDX-18T laptop. If planning to use as an internal laptop drive, my advice would be to ensure you have a relatively recent laptop. Prying it out of the enclosure was very easy with a knife and then a screwdriver. Just take off the silver foil and adapter, and you've got a 9.5mm SATA internal drive that spins at 5400rpm. Good for a D drive in large laptops.
5|I particularly like the software that came with this hard drive. There was absolutely no hassle setting it up. It was literally plug-n-play. The hard drive has been continuously - or nearly - my computer since I plugged it in. I haven't tried to restore the computer from it, but I can see the drive and the size of the files in toto in the computer's directory; so I know that it's working. The back-up isn't accessible on document-by-document basis. Also, there didn't seem to be much in the way of instructions on how to use it. I imagine that this sort of thing can be found online. I only wish that I didn't have to look.
3|Received it and it looks really nice - small, light and quiet. However, upon plugging it in it takes me to a non-existing Seagate page and also it IS NOT formatted for Macs, it comes in NTFS format ready for Windows. If you have Mac you either have to reformat it (easy to do under disk utility) or you have to install (searching Seagate site) a software to link between NTFS file system and one used on Mac. Importantly the file transfer seams to be reasonably fast 130GB in roughly 15min, but the drive comes with yet another form of a cable. So if you will misplace you won't be able to just one one at home from another device.
5|I needed a portable hard drive because I have so many photographs that it was eating up space on my computer, plus it's handy to be able to switch things from one computer to another. I'm always concerned that some of these items don't work with Macs, but this one does. So easy to install - a couple of clicks and in a couple of minutes it was all up and running. Only just started putting things onto it, but so far it is fast and efficient. I like the fact that it is supposed to enable you to take things from Mac to PC and back again without any problems. Haven't tried this yet as I'm currently in a Mac-only/PC-free zone.
5|my last 2 Seagate 1TB FreeAgent Desk USB 2.0 External Hard Drives were purchased in 2009, still using them no problems. they are about 4 times larger, & need mains power direct. I decided to stayed with Seagate. Again have bought two, red and blue, named as such for easily identification on the desk top and the desktop. Being powered via the USB cable means fewer power points, and as i currently use 15 this does help. When traveling, they are in small cases for added protection and fit into my lap-top bag easily. Would buy again and recommed to a friend. delivery was prompt
5|i have not had chance to use it yet, but from the information it looks as though this Seagate portable hard drive has some excellent updating features that I have not come across before.
5|This is a very neat and compact external hard drive (the size and weight of a smartphone!), which I picked up specifically to transfer / back up a large number of photos, documents and music from an old PC which I no longer use. It was very quick and easy to set up, and the transfer of data was speedy and effortless. I've always found Seagate products to be reliable, and this one is no exception!
5|Within moments of its promised arrival I had it plugged in and connected. It worked immediately and is now used on my Mac desktop in conjunction with the Time Machine programme.
3|Not thrilled with it because the USB part keeps detaching from the laptop; just enough to keep getting a warning that I may have damaged the drive by disconnecting the wrong way.
5|Being a cheapskate I've bought this 2TB drive as a way to get the thin Samsung M9T-type drive that is inside, to fit in my Intel NUC with the 2.5" slot. I've lost the warranty, but have saved a few ££, and have also got a spare USB 3 cable, and a SATA/USB adapter if I find a use for it. It works a charm: gently/firmly prise the metal front from the plastic back (it's just glued on), remove the metal foil and the USB adapter (including the pushfit SATA socket converter), slot it into the NUC and away it goes. Job done! And it arrived super-quick on standard free delivery.
4|i have used it to back up my desk top with no problems, it just needs a little bit of thought whilst setting it up as the the instructions leave a little to the imagination.
5|Very good item - looks good, quiet during operation, easy to set up - simply does what it said in the description. Also arrived way before the advised date. Well impressed.
5|brilliant item easy to use , plug and play , great
5|The hard drive used in this enclosure is compatible with the Sony PS4. It is also cheaper than buying the actual hard drive outright (which is weird). Case is very easy to open (just need a screwdriver). Be careful with it as you can then use the removed hard drive from the PS4 in this and you still have an external drive! Watched a tutorial video on how to do this process (which is how i found this drive) http://www.psnation.com/2014/09/03/how-to-upgrade-the-hard-drive-in-your-ps4-video-guide/ The enclosure is very nice indeed and its tiny!
5|Very compact design - exact same thickness and height as an iPhone 4 but wider. Very quiet, quietest 2.5" drive I've ever heard. Speeds up to 110MB/s over USB 3.0.
5|Very slim and stylish with the brushed aluminium surface. Goes well with our matching TV and laptop. Competitive price. Reliable so far. Let's hope it continues.
5|Bought this for my Xbox One, easy to set up and does the job perfectly, would recommend to anyone who is looking for an external hard drive for thier Xbox One.
4|Very slim, and totally silent in use. Sits behind my Sony KDL-42W705B, permanently plugged into the USB hard disk socket, allowing me to record HD programmes.
5|The first thing I noticed about this hard drive is the size, it is extremely compact. I purchased this to add additional storage space on my XBOX One and it works great. I have got it plugged into the USB port at the back of the console and the hard drive tucked away at the back. With the additional space I’ve noticed that I’m buying more digital games compared to disc games. Maybe it’s just me being lazy but it is so much easier being able to switch games without the need to get up and swap discs. A superb drive which has made me even lazier.
5|Excellent hard disk, can use straight after unpacking. Recomended to all who are in Dilemma of whether to buy or not and which one to buy. 5 stars
5|Excellent hdd, took it apart and put it in my ps4, Much needed upgrade. Works a treat and used the 500gb in the caddy, so got a portable usb3 hdd to boot!
5|These are the smallest slimmest and most elegant Seagate drives I have seen yet. I have bought three as swap drives to use with Lightroom 5. Very pleased
5|Perfect drive. I remover the samsung drive and put it into my Mac mini. Now the Mac has 4GB had space. I placed the original drives into the casings.
5|This is a brilliant hard drive, especially if you have a Mac and still need to use a PC elsewhere. This hard drive allows you to plug straight into either a Mac and/or a PC or Laptop and save or read files as required. I do this everyday between work and home and find it a seemless transition. It feels a real quality product - solid and quiet running - and at 1Tb for the price, great value. Delivery was fast and efficient and I appreciated full refund/return instructions directly to Maplin. Buy with confidence.
5|When i opened the box I was actually suprised how small this 1TB storage is. However do not let the size fool you. Seagate have done an amazing job at creating a compact yet sturdy and stylish external drive. The metal top gives it a sleek and elegant feel. In regards to performance, the read and write speeds are unparalled in comparison with previous external hard drives I've owned. Seagate have not been able to disappoint. If you want a reliable, fast yet compact and stylish external hard drive, look no further.
2|Hugely cumbersome software called "Dashboard" for backup up and lots of problems installing this software (has to be via the web) on windows xp - kept saying the file "seagate dashboard.msi" was faulty and stopped the installation. Had to repeat several downloads of "Seagate Dashboard Installer.exe" before it would finally work. After all this I discovered that when using this software to back up it does not preserve the original file date-time stamp - so when you look at the seagate drive all the backed-up files are stamped with the backup date not their original date of creation/editing - pretty useless if you are trying to find files based on how recent they are. The dashboard software is also primitive and limited with a very poor set of options. Better to use free backup software like FDbackup 5. Also, the "free" cloud storage claimed with this is not available to windows xp users.
5|Bought this for my Xbox One, and it works fine - everything you need is in the box, just plug it in, let the Xbox format it, and then use it
5|I only just got around to set this up, but it was a piece of cake to do so and it backs up in the background once a day (my choice) without me being aware that it is doing so. Only downside I can see (and I might not have understood it properly) is that to back up my mobile they have to be on the same wifi as my main PC - but that is hard-wired, not on Wifi. I'll be looking into this in more detail. I can back up the mobile to the cloud as an alternative - it's free for the 1st year.
5|The device is small and sleek, in fact it is one of the smallest external drives that I have owned. The design is good, and the device is light, meaning that it is very portable. It was plugged in and recognised at once by Windows. It is also USB 3.0 which means it is pretty quick when transferring data etc. My only gripe would be the size, however when you buy it the size is clear on the product. It is only too small if you have more than 500mb to back up! Overall I would recommend.
4|Good, works well with my Mac Book, needs to be reformatted first with Disk Utility, I use for Time Machine backups, so far no problems
4|Very good hardware, but the software (as usual these days) is poor. Setting the parameters for the Seagate Dashboard backup is painful -- partly because the screen cannot display wide enough to show the subdirectories (presumably to suit smartphones and not desktop screens) and partly because the overall design is simplified for idiots. Anyone wanting to take control over what is and is not backed up will have to contend with semi-rational organisation and unexpected difficulties.
3|This arrived fast and in a small little package. As far as the weight and size of the product goes, it's perfect; small, compact, not heavy but sufficiently sturdy enough to toss in your bag and go. My only gripe is that it says it is enabled for use for Mac- it's not - at least not straight out of the box. The instructions provided weren't very clear about how exactly to format it, so it did take a bit of googling. If you're using this for a PC, then it would be great.
5|I already have one for my system back up, but want this for photographs and film. Plugged it in and my Mac immediately asked if I wanted the apple software. That took a couple of minutes and there it is on my desk top. It is swallowing all my photographs and having little effect on its memory. I have tried recovery of the data and that works well. So the product does what it was bought for. It's sister continues to do the same, so I can recommend these portable hard drives.
3|Bought two of these. One for my PS4 as advised by a friend and one for my PS3. For the PS4 works brilliantly. (After you removed it from the case.) But it will not work on PS3's. These are the 2tb drives i purchased.
4|Very good hdd, I had several external hard drive, this one is one of the best: - Very very compact - Fast - Silent - Seem solid The only down side I found to it, the cable: It's not a micro USB plug on the hdd side, it seems like a proprietary seagate one to plug both data and power in one cable. It's a great cable, but I feel that loosing it would cost me deep research to find a compatible somewhere, and not sure at what price.
5|Great item , only (1small) problem cable to short when trying to plug into tv , but I just purchased a longer cable from Amazon
5|A proper 'out of the box' plug and go. Bought to back up my iMac. Plugged one end of, supplied, lead into unit and other end into Macs usb. Time machine found it instantly and presented me with an options block ( and two minutes to make up my mind ! ) and then automatically started the back up. It sits, discreetly, on the screen supports 'foot' and whirrs quietly away doing its job. Time will tell if it's doing it properly !! So far though, very pleased :-)
5|Great item, very compact with a sturdy build quality, almost silent operation and works perfectly with the Xbox one plus there is a noticeable difference in game loading times with this which is a bonus. Comes with everything you need including a USB 3.0 cable but this cable is very short so if your planning on having this placed more than 6 inches from your pc or console id recommend purchasing a longer cable, also includes a dash program pre installed.
3|Despite being described as being of metal design (including on the box itself!) the front of the drive casing on the one I received is most definitely plastic. I'd paid a little more to get this model as it promised a brushed aluminium finish, so pretty disappointed to find it was actually plastic. Maybe someone needs to explain the difference to Seagate. Other than that, it's a nice compact size and does what its supposed to. The supplied USB 3.0 cable is a bit shorter than I'd like, but not a huge problem. Nice product, but just a shame Seagate fail to describe it correctly. If you're not bothered about he whole plastic/metal thing then I'd probably recommend it, but otherwise you may want to tread carefully.
4|Hard to set up for my Mac, had no idea what I was doing. After a bit of a panic, somehow it worked and has been solid since.
4|Reasonable price - good quality finish - does the job except that when I tried to install VAULT encryption software which I have installed successfully on at least 3 other USB sticks and 2 earlier Seagate HDs; it showed 'installed' but would not open and also took up nearly all the available space on the HD. I had to format the thing to get back the (almost) 2TBs Worth buying unless you want to store your own encryption store for sensitive content.
3|I keep getting the message that my HD has been improperly ejected, just because the machine has gone into Rest mode - why?
5|Good build quality, dropped it numerous times and still works a charm. Best investment I've made in a while :)
5|Love this drive, so small to carry around wherever you need and USB3 speeds too. I use a Mac and it comes formatted to NTFS but has a cut-down version of Paragon that reads/writes to NTFS formatted drives that are manufactured by Seagate which saves formatting to FAT32 or making it Mac-only by going hfs. Only thing that would have been nice (considering it's a beautiful brushed metal case) would be a slip case to stop it getting scratched.
5|Great compact, high capacity drive with super fast speeds over USB 3. No complaints! I would certainly buy it again.
5|The drive is very slim and fast for data download. Slick design and goog looking, i am bery happy with this product.
5|I have another Seagate 500GB slim external HDD from 2010 which is still going strong but I need more space for backup reasons. I've looked online and this caught my eye and I'm extremely pleased with this HDD. It's really fast and it does it's job ! You can't ask more from an mechanical drive. I've also bought the Duronic HDC2 Small Black EVA Case which is like a sleeve for this HDD ! Recommend !
5|It's difficult to find much wrong with this drive. - It's a good physical size, which makes it easy to transport and store. - It's powered via the USB cable, so there's no need to find an extra power outlet to run it. - Both USB 2.0 and 3.0 are supported. - Also comes with 200GB of free space on Microsoft's One Drive (registration needed). It's also quiet, and transfer speed were good for me too.
5|This was just what I wanted, small yet big, smart and stylish everything I hoped it'd be. Great well done Seagate.
5|I bought this to go with my surface pro and its great. No set up required just plug it in to a USB port and go, really simple! No extra power supply needed and the USB cable provided is a good length. Its so small it fits in the palm of your hand. It slips in to my surface pro travel case and doesn't add much bulk or any weight. Stores lots, idea for movies and music while travelling. Would recommend this product.
5|Nice and slim, Works on both mac and pc interchangeably so quite happy. I'm Using it to migrate music libraries.
5|Excellent piece of kit which is set to automatically back up any files which have changed on my SSD hard disk. Really fast transfer rates for USB 3.0, but nowhere near theoretical published specs. No matter. It is still very fast and Seagate dashboard auto backs up any changed files. Only thing is that it does not appear to allow for disk cloning which would be even better as a saving option. Still merits 5 stars.
4|Bought to use to store my photographs instead of clogging up my internal hard drive and use with my post processing programme. Setup on my MacBook Pro 2011 very easy & appears to be working ok. Arrived in the estimated timescale. Would have liked to see better packaging, hence the 4*. This is the 3rd Seagate external drive I have although the others are run off mains power. Hope it has the same longevity of those.
4|I like this drive,i used this one to upgrade my Ps4 to 2TB and it work out well, it was super easy and for this price very good deal. the only thing i sometimes notice maybe because the speed of the drive its different from the original ps4 drive speed, sometimes it gives weird noises like clicks.but i have it a couple of months now and never give me an error or i felt that was bad loading games. so i recommend
5|Does what is says on the box, and looks quite nice if it is to be on show - like mine (used for TV recording)
5|I needed a fast, reliable hard drive and thats exactly what I got. With seagate you can't go wrong! Awesome!
5|Fantastic value (when I purchased it) and works like a charm. Self powered, very light weight, looks great and is completely silent. I get very reasonable speeds from this when connected to my XBO etc so it's fantastic from those looking to add a little extra storage at half the price of the green one. Top marks, for a great service and product that functions above expectations in a myriad of situations.
5|I only trust my data to quality storage devices and so usually go for seagate and they didn't let me down. The device is very compact, so I am able to take it with me everywhere. The transfer speeds are very fast as you would expect from USB 3 and so far the device has been reliable. I have 3 portable Seagate drives that I have been using for the past 2 years and never had an issue with any of them.
5|lets hope it lasts tried a few times to format it windows 7 working fine now transfer speed quite fast for big files typically 27 mb sec not quite as responsive as normal 1tb drives to be expected with three skinny platters but looks like a good drive check to make sure the drive is working inside the Seagate enclosure then take a few minutes to CAREFULLY open it up remove sata connector voila
5|Reliable. Portable. Fast. All you've come to expect from a portable hard disk drive. Big fan of Seagate
5|A solid hard drive that is slim and fast. Packaging was easy to open yet protective. Drive itself comes with a USB 3.0 cable that is a little short but it seems all hard drives come equip with a similar size cable. Transfer speeds are very impressive (transferring from the SSD inside a MacBook Pro 15" Retina 2015 model). Overall, very impressed with this drive and is well worth the money.
5|Neat, small and does the job. It's very useful to have so much storage power in such a portable form.
4|The product is good quality. But if you are looking for something works between Windows and Mac, you need to research online to learn how to do it before storing any data on it. It would be better if the setting could automatically guide user to either divide the disk or choose either system when first started. Otherwise, all the data will be erased when you repartition/reset the device.
1|It is difficult to believe that Seagate should send out top specification backup drives with installation software that does not function. Install halts with 'Error 1920.Service Seagate Dashboard Services failed to start.....' On Windows 7 Professional, I spent a fruitless day incorporating every piece of advice, including those Amazon customers suffering the same problem. Update to Seagate Dasbhoard 3.0 made no difference.On phoning Seagate, after about an hour, I was told to right click the downloaded 3.0 file and 'Run as Administrator' (I am an administrator); their website states 'double click' on the 3.0 file. Following that advice made no difference. Same 'Error 1920'. So, it's being returned today. Amazon should stop selling these and similar Seagate drives until the dysfunctional software writers in Seagate get their act together. Appalling in this day and age.
5|Excellent, we use up to 10 of these, every day, they all work quickly, very quietly, switch themselves off and on when required without a drag, quality construction in a metal case, with stylish colours, the supplied driver lets Windows and MAC see them, if formated as MAC they can be seen by Time Machine and used natively to backup too, unreserved opinion as an excellent product...
5|Works like a dream - plug and play and works perfectly with Apple Time Machine for seamless back-up
5|In the thinnest category, feels light, the usb 3 cable it dangles from when i forget it s plugged into the laptop is a good companion, as so far it hasn't dropped when I picked the laptop with the drive attached, so yeah, light, compact thickness wise, the colour is great, it looks expensive. After that a hard drive is a hard drive, check other comments if you need benchmarks!
3|Beautiful design. It feels like a quality piece of hardware. I am using it mainly as a backup drive so I haven't put the reading capabilities to test but so far writing has been good, the device is USB 3 so I think it will perform well. The software however could do better, it's heavy for the services it provides and the lack of option for encryption is a big miss.
3|If you are a Mac user, this product will probably induce some heavy swearing. Although it says it's Mac compatible, it's set up for PC. Seagate gives you no instructions for how to set up in Mac and you basically have to search for a forum that shows you how to reformat it via disk utilities . I've just wasted an hour or two on this. It's shiny and red, which is worth 3 stars!
5|Excelllent compact storage solution. I am using this drive as a time machine and CarbonCopy backup drive for my 2014 MacBookPro. I had not appreciated that the drive was USB3.0 ready when I bought it and have been very pleasantly surprised by the speed when backing up. The drive is extremely quiet, and has worked flawlessly. Would have no hesitation in recommending this product.
5|The design in real life is just awesome!!! The device is very fast. I'm using it for time machine on my Mac. It took only 67 mins to back up 230gb of ENCRYPTED data!!!! For those who don' need encryption it will be even faster.!! absolutely worth it's price!!! P.s. please be noticed that backing up with time machine is not a usual data transfer. Back up take takes more time
5|This has to be one of the best £50 I've ever spent. I use it with a Mac desktop and laptop, both running Yosemite. It works seamlessly with Apple's automated TimeMachine hourly back up system and it's also easy to drag and drop any other content. Much easier to set up than Apple's own TimeCapsule, at a fifth of the price. Very portable. Works a charm. Highly recommended.
5|Had to replace my Western Digital, cuz honestly their drives fail a lot. Seagate's Backup Plus Slim works great, doesn't fail on me, I have two of these (1 grey/ 1 red) It fits into a hard drive protective case just fine (both of them) if you want reliability, speed, and convenience, go for Seagate's BPS 1TB, or 2TB depending on your usage.
5|excellent product very pleased with it, no problems, works exactly as stated highly recommend.
5|I bought this to use as my time machine backup on my MacBook Pro and it works a treat. Although it only takes two backups at the time, that's all I needed to backup my Mac. It's very reliable and lightweight. It connects to your laptop via high speed USB cable. I would recommend this product to anyone who's looking for a great value portable hard rive
3|This drive was alleged to be suitable for use as a 1 TB backup drive for the mac. However my mac OS 10.10.5 refused to work with it until I reformatted the drive. It now appears to be working ok with time machine which automatically backs up my main drive at regular intervals. It is not the plug in and play device that it purports to be until after reformatting.
4|It would be great if the software that came with it was compatible with the Mac when you choose to use Time Machine and reformat it for Mac use only. Other than that it works perfectly and is good value for money. Reformatting was easy and I'm not particularly great when it comes to complicated system tasks. Had it for a couple of months now and no complaints.
5|This is the second Seagate I've bought. This time I am using it as my back up of images (which I do have other backups of) so that I can take them off the laptop to make more room. It works really well and because it's so small, I can have it with me most of the time - very helpful when you suddenly need an image taken more than 2 years ago!! Easy to use.
4|...that required no set-up, just plugged it into my PC and it works right away. This is a slim drive, with low noise and presumably low-power use (certainly less than the desktop equivalent). You lose speed by going 'passport' sized, but apart from that I prefer this format in every way. I've only used it for USB 2.0 and it's speed is as expected.
5|Excellent 2.5" Hard Drive! It's very fast and as a excelente build quality, the only thibg i don't like is that this drive don't have a led to show when is acess files etc. It only as a white led when it's attached to a usb source. Despite this issue I recommend this drive, it's the best on this class! Very good price on Amazon, it's worth!
5|No problems as yet, although others seem to experience issues with Seagate drives I have never been that misfortunate. Plugged it in to my main Windows 7 PC and set it up - files are backing-up as expected. Bought to replace a much older, but still functioning, Seagate 'FreeAgent Go' simply because that device's disk capacity has become inadequate.
3|Nice small drives, but a word of using to Mac Mini users. After we plugged two of these drives in to USB ports on the Mac our wireless internet connection kept dropping out. Long story short: these emit some kind of signal apparently, and had to be moved to a USB hub kept 0.5m from the Mac itself. When we did that everything returned to normal....
4|The disc works fine. It was disappointing that it was not configured for Apple which the advertising suggests is the case. Seagate were helpful and gave the address of the software site to re-configure the disc. Now is works as expected. My third disc and the first two work well, I keep underestimating the size required. So at 1 TB lets hope.
1|I bought this thinking it would work with Windows 10. Not a hope. I contacted the service department who assured me it would work with W10 and refused to believe I had any problems. They sent me various links including all the software - NOTHING. This may be good for Windows up to 8.1 but it certainly is not for Windows 10. Very disappointed.
5|I have several USB sticks, 8 to truthful and now I can safely back them all up and this is the drive to do it , Thank you .. I can now clear the sticks I use in work, in the knowledge that they are safe and accessible in my handbag .. Diolch yn fawr eto .. Oh and my Welsh classes are there for me too, at a moments "click" <3
5|Bought this HDD to swap the 500GB HDD that came with the PS4 to 2TB. The case is easy to pry open and the HDD inside is easy to remove. If you google the instructions its pretty simple. I now use the 500GB HDD as a portable drive using this case. Its a perfect and cheap solution. The same HDD inside bought separately costs way more.
2|Why oh why would you advertise a backup drive as Mac and Windows compatible ... then ship it only with the Windows driver (!?) Have spent the last hour trying to find and install the right driver, whilst being bombarded with cross-product marketing. Will keep you posted on progress ... (not a great way to spend a Sunday morning).
5|This is my second Seagate 1TB USB external hard disc I've bought. Small and handy.
5|The best thing about this drive is its size. From the pictures I expected something bigger, but this is the same sort of size as some larger smartphones. It's easily pocketed and incredibly convenient. It's got a very decent read-and-write speed (haven't tested with actual figures, sorry), considering that its only power source is through the USB3 cable- there's no other way of powering it. The blue metallic colour is a little bit unusual, I don't see it matching many PC colour schemes- it looks more like shiny car paint than a normal IT colour. It's fairly nice though, so as long as you're not planning some sort of colour-sensitive feng-shui based desk around it, you won't complain. The backup software that's included is surprisingly OK. Previous drives I've had have come bundled with backup software that has been an appalling victory of style over content, and completely useless for actually backing things up- that's why I bought myself PureSync, from Jumping Bytes software, to do the job properly. This Seagate Dashboard system is more easy-to-use and more advanced than I expected. To be honest I'll probably still use PureSync, but if you don't already have backup software, the included Seagate offering is definitely better than nothing- it's definitely worth registering, at least. This is especially true if you're a big social networker, as the Facebook interaction is something I've not seen before. The USB3 cable provided is very short. Depending on where you'll want to keep it, you might want to get yourself a longer cable (for example AmazonBasics USB Cable - 3.0 A Male to Micro B 1.8 m). Another great plus about this drive is that it's so small even when packaged up that it will drop through your letterbox when it's delivered! If you're after a drive for portability and convenience, this should do the job very nicely indeed.
5|The Seagate slim is a very neat compact USB 3.0 drive not much bigger than a pack of cards. It is described a 500GB but I can only see 465GB. I cannot find any hidden partitions etc. The USB 3.0 cable is included. When first using the device you can install the Dashboard but this is not necessary if you don't want to and you can just get on with using the device. The dashboard basically gives the user 3 "extras". Firstly backup software. There are several options for backups that allow the user to select the files and whether the backup is continual etc. The backups are done in a standard format so they can be viewed and accessed by any computer through windows explorer. I do not intend to use this feature as I have other backup software that suits me. The other two extras are for saving to and from Social media sites such as Facebook. I can't comment on this as I do not use any of these social sites. On first use you are prompted to register which is very quick but took me 6 minutes as I went on a tour of the Seagate website looking for updates. Updates can be accessed through the dashboard. If you provide a valid email address then you are sent a confirmation email with a link to one year's free cloud storage. Without actually signing up for the service it was difficult to find the second year costs and also the first year free allowance. On the Seagate site I did find the cost of additional storage which stared at $19.99 for 10GB. The USB 3.0 is not surprisingly faster than USB 2.0 and I just ran a few comparisons of my own on an Acer laptop. These are just rough that I achieved and obviously others may get better or worse results. A 25Gb folder of mixed files Seagate to Acer on USB 3.0 took 7 minutes with a transfer speed of about 60MB/second. Seagate to Acer on USB 2.0 took 15 minutes with a transfer speed of about 30MB/second. The times for the same folder to be sent from the Acer to the Seagate were pretty much the same. A window did pop up when the drive was connected to a USB 2.0 port advising that it would be faster on a USB 3.0. A one hour video file (550MB) Seagate to Acer on USB 3.0 took 4 seconds with a transfer speed of about 130MB/second. Seagate to Acer on USB 2.0 took 12 seconds with a transfer speed of about 30MB/second. The transfer was "smooth" in both cases. Acer to Seagate on USB 3.0 took 8 seconds with a transfer speed of about 90MB/second. The progress bar indicated that the vast majority of the file went in 6 sec but then the progress bar hesitated and the final tiny bit took a further 2 seconds. Acer to Seagate on USB 2.0 took 18 seconds with a transfer speed of about 70MB/second. The progress bar indicated that the vast majority of the file went in 8 sec but then the progress bar hesitated and the final tiny bit took a further 10 seconds. Just out of curiosity I tried transferring files on my old USB 2.0 only Dell 420 XPS desktop and transferring the single video file from the Dell to the Seagate took about 20 seconds with the same kind of hesitation at the end. However transferring the file from the Seagate to the Dell went in about 12 seconds with no hesitation at the end. The 25GB mixed folder went from the Dell to the Seagate in 19 minutes, 24MB/sec, and from the Seagate to the Dell in 16 minutes. For users who want the Facebook and back up options or if you are pushed for time and want to transfer large file then this Seagate should be just what you need.
5|Seagate Slim 500GB USB 3.0 external hard drive. In the box. The drive comes in a small box with the drive itself a USB 3.0 short cable, brief instructions for their software on the drive (Seagate's disk management and backup software) and warrantee booklet. The drive is a USB 3.0 drive but will work with the older USB 2.0 and 1.0 standards but probably much slower. The drive. It is very small and well made with a brushed aluminium top and very solid plastic back plate. It feels like a quality item. Size wise it is small and pocketable, it is 11cm long 7cm wide and about half a cm think. It has one USB 3.0 socket on the front. he supplied USB 3.0 cable is 46 cm long. Setting up. Just plug it in and off it goes, nothing to do really. The unit draws power from the USB socket on the computer so there is no need for an external power unit. The drive uses the latest power efficient design and consumes very little power. The included software is on the disk. There is also a Segate register item to allow the user to activate the warrantee and access technical help etc. In use. Using the USB 3.0 interface and connecting it to my desktop computer with USB 3.0 connectivity it was recognised and set up correctly. The supplied data management software from Seagate is on the disk and simple to use if you need it. As expected transfer rates using large and small files were very quick using USB 3.0. The drive makes very little noise when in use. When in operation a small white indicator light comes on. As for speed and when coupled to a USB 3.0 machine transfer and read speed are very fast compared to my other USB 2.0 portable disk drive. Anything missing ? I am only nit picking here but a carry sleeve would have been nice to stop that lovely brushed aluminium top getting shabby, I am sure I can cope without this but it would have been a nice addition to the package. Value for money. For a 500GB drive the price is quite high at the time of writing but to counteract that this is a quality well build and conceived device that should last well. Overall. An excellent tint 500GB USB 3.0 backup drive that is beautifully made and very quick in operation. I Would highly recommend this device.
5|Considering it has 500GB storage, this external hard drive is surprisingly small, having a similar form factor to my smartphone! It also has a quality look & feel, with a sturdy brushed metal front & thick plastic back cover. This is the first device I've used which utilizes USB 2.0 to USB 3.0 & I'm very impressed with the speed. It's transfer rate is incredibly fast, receiving a 5GB folder of video files within a few minutes, without fuss. Like most people out in the real world, I'm inclined to just drag & drop files when needed. Yet some of the included software seems more handy than most. In addition to the usual bog-standard backup program, there's software for swapping files between a Mac & PC without any fuss. There's also software for backing up any videos & pictures you upload onto Facebook, Flickr or YouTube onto this device. I'm not sure why anyone would want to do this since they're stored safely online & the uploaded versions are presumably of a lesser quality than the originals but what is more useful is that it does the same trick in reverse - any pictures or videos uploaded to this drive can be automatically uploaded to Facebook or Flickr (not YouTube this time, unfortunately). This is handy for me as I regularly upload photos & videos onto Facebook, which - particularly in the case of videos - can be quite a chore but Seagate's software is a bit more user-friendly. Regardless of the optional software, this storage drive covers the basics & covers them well - quality build (so no bulky case necessary), ridiculously small compared to older drives & fast transfer speed. And it's pretty sleek-looking too! There's cheaper drives out there these days but the superior build quality has won me over to the Seagate Slim.
5|This is the 2nd seagate drive I have bought and it is just as good as the first one, but with more capacity! I have partitioned it, so there is ~1TB for time machine back-ups and ~1TB for all my media. Taking my movies out of iTunes has made a big difference to Airplay and Home sharing. I can still stream the movies using Plex.
5|A fast and effective hard drive. I can easily use it on my Mac or my work laptop!
5|This 1tb seagate hdd external us just awesome Ease of yes back up brilliant yon can't go wrong and IBM a bit of a technophobe it's A1 in every way the brushed aluminium silver is a lovely colour with style and looks. I opted for others in the past likd Sony Hitachi and western digital but seagate bloss then all away.
5|Looks good and works well. For information it has a standard hard drive connection inside so if the USB to hard drive electronics fail you can access it direct when removed from the case. Or if you decide to fit it in your laptop or other computer. Some other drives have all-in-one drive boards which only allow USB use.
4|I had to buy a Backup for my new Mac, looked around Apple who was selling this make too so i thought i would try Amazon first and to my surprise a lot cheaper.! Does what says on the tin. Love the striking blue colour very stylish and of a good quality, easy to find around my desk. So pretty much a winner all round!
5|Plugged in easily onto my Net book PC, backed up data with the software that is on this device, installed effortlessly and without issue. Nice slim build. The data backed up quickly and its easy to store. Highly Recommended. Look after this device and this should last many years, good build and a reliable name.
5|Looking for a cheap Playsation 4 HDD upgrade ? save around £20 on the cost of an internal harddrive and just open this baby up remove the usb port and your good to go you can even reformat your old ps4 500gb hard drive and put it back in the black casing worked perfectly! see youtube for guides
5|Really nice and good product. Slim, very small and looks stylish. Very happy with it. Oh, one point to make here. Make sure you are buying this from amazon approved seller because my first purchase never came through and that was not packed by amazon. Had lots of problem because of that. So just a word of advise.
5|I chose the Seagate Slim etc because having read the reviews, I thought it would be the best product for my requirements. It came very quickly, as usual! The need for instructions were minimal. I am very pleased to say all my stuff I needed to save went on to it easily and quicly. I am very pleased with it.
5|Good HDD. It was Xmas present so use it since. No issue. fast and reliable.
3|The good: The Seagate FreeAgent GoFlex Ultra-portable offers great flexibility, USB 3.0, and a large amount of storage. It also works with both Macs and PCs without having to be reformatted. The bad: The GoFlex Ultra's USB 3.0 performance could be better and the drive doesn't include a USB 3.0 add-in card for computers that don't yet have this connection. The bottom line: Even with the slightly low USB 3.0 performance, the GoFlex Ultra still makes an excellent portable external hard drive for people who need to expand their computer's storage. The FreeAgent GoFlex Ultra-portable is an upgrade to Seagate's excellent FreeAgent GoFlex Pro that increases the storage amount to 1.5TB, making it the largest single-volume portable external hard drive to date. The drive is also the first in the GoFlex family that supports USB 3.0 out of the box. Other than that, the drive shares Seagate's GoFlex family's superflexible detachable adapter design, allowing it to instantly change the types of connections it supports. The GoFlex Ultra disappointed a bit with its comparatively low USB 3.0 performance, unfortunately, though it was still really fast in our tests. However, even with this shortcoming, it's still one of the best portable external hard drives on the market.
3|The installation of the product's software changed my mac boot...and for the first time I experience a white screen in mac. Found the answer to this problem in the internet and changed boot destination drive. Although instalation was a pain, product is running smoothly with time machine...no problems.
5|Bought to upgrade drive in PS4 - works a treat. As long as your careful opening the case to get the internal drive out, you can then use your old PS4 drive in the seagate shell casing so you have access to a smaller portable drive. This is a slightly cheaper option to upgrade your PS4 and works well!
5|EXCELLENT size - I bought it for my daughter and she's delighted with it
5|Small, neat, smart & it works! This you can fit in your pocket, handbag or what ever. Have not tried the backup software yet but speed & quietness exemplary. Although it is a USB 3 connector, the actual connection to the drive is proprietary, so don't loose the very short lead that is supplied.
5|Hard drive is great! It's tiny, and is extremely fast transfer rates with the USB3.0 connection (comes with the cable). I reformatted it as soon as I got it (I mostly use Mac computers) with 3 partitions, a separate backup for each of my computers, and it has been working smoothly on all of them.
4|I bought this to use with my macbook, and it would not work initially. After calling the customer services I just had to re-format it through the Mac Disk Utility. No problem but I had expected it to just plug in and work straight away. Otherwise all working fine and very fast so I'm happy.
5|This comes with software preloaded to enable quick backing up into the cloud. But if all that is needed is an external hard drive it will need reformatting if to be used with a MAC for drag and drop storage. Slim. Light weight. Ideal portability. Different colours enable quick identification.
5|I only use this for click and drop file transfers on a 2013 Macbook and do not use any of the software supplied. So far it has worked perfectly and, as far as I can tell, it is quicker than my earlier Hard Drives. It is neat, small and appears solidly made. It serves my purposes perfectly.
5|As well as data reliability (which should be a given for all storage devices), top things I look for in a portable hard drive are size / bulk and weight, and this Seagate drive delivers on both. It's extremely slimline, and lightweight to match - it could slip easily into a jacket (or even shirt) pocket to conveniently carry around, and slides imperceptibly into a laptop bag or rucksack pocket without bulking it out. For people on the move, it's a terabyte of storage that you won't even notice physically. Performance-wise too, the drive is great. It zips along on a recent MacBook Air and is speedy enough on an older Windows machine. It comes already formatted in Windows NT format, along with the necessary drivers to use it as such on a Mac. If you don't want to install those, no problem - the included software includes the option to reformat it easily as a Mac-only drive, too (necessary if you want to use Time Machine as your backup program of choice), or you can do this yourself in Disk Utility, of course. A great portable backup / file storage solution, which looks pretty snazzy too. A solid offering from Seagate.
5|What's not to like. Slim, light, 2TB - and it's red. I reformatted it for Mac and use it to deliver updates between big, fast desktop hard drives in two different places. I only have USB2 so not really able to comment on speed. Looks really cool though - and SO small and light. Wonderful!
1|I hope this will turn out all right! Drive appears to work perfectly, but the software conflicts with something in my laptop and locks it up, so I have had to uninstall. I need to find a solution - Seagate online help has offered some advice promptly, but I don't know if it works yet.
5|I am so glad I brought this as now all of the things that can never be replaced such as pictures are no safely backed up so I don't have to worry if my laptop goes wrong, its very easy to use would recommend to everyone who has a computer and has important stuff that can't be replaced
5|I purchased this hard drive for my partner to replace a couple of portable drives that were becoming less dependable. he needed a drive that could be portable to carry to use at work and at home .he very happy with the brand, of hard drive and the price was incredible for a 2tb
5|I am still amazed at the physically small size of this drive (2TB), particularly when you compare it to a couple of 3.5 inch hard disk drives! I've not had it long enough to be able to comment on its 'durability' but I don't think you can go wrong with this. 114mm x 76mm x 12.5mm.
5|Well made Seagate backup drive. Once the software is installed it becomes plug and play to back up all essential documents and photographs etc. so when the main computer hard drive fails all the important information is saved. We now have three of these and would recommend them.
5|perfect for backing up all your stuff would recommend this product
5|Very good hard drive. No issues and I upgraded my PS4 hard drive with it. I'm very pleased with this product and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to upgrade their PS4 hard drive. With this product you can use your old PS4 hard drive and turn it into a external hard drive
5|Absolutely wonderful piece of "must have" gadget. It has a fantastic design, like the B&O of electronics. It comes with many different fronts. As to the function it has so far worked perfectly and is incredible fast when transferring files (4 - 5 GB/min).
5|I bought this drive as you can use it on both windows and Mac without any issues. I was amazed how compact the drive actually is compared to the massive EHDs I've had in the passed. It's a Very user friendly Versitle bit of kit that I wouldn't hesitate to buy....excellent.
2|It's a great looking product however after 2 weeks of perfect use it just stopped working. I always ejected it properly (right click, safely remove drive) but it just stopped working. Very disappointed as have had seagate products in the past and have never had a problem.
4|Item was as described and delivered well before the estimated delivery time. The product is compact and works very well. The only exception was that I had to download the Dashboard Software instead of it being preloaded as stated. Otherwise, I would have given it 5 stars.
1|The backup software is a backward step from the previous which is no longer supported on Windows 10. Had to buy a new Seagate HDD to get PC backup again. However, the new software splits everything into separate folders. Finding stuff is a nightmare! Not imprssed at all!
5|This Seagate hard disk is fantastic - so small and light yet really fast, using USB 3.0. It's amazing that such a small device can be so powerful, holding 2TB of data, and it's powered via the USB cable, so no extra power adapters to carry around. Highly recommended.
5|Bought as a present. Delighted with purchase. Would recommend!
5|It's probably the best portable USB 3.0 hard drive you can get. It is not as fast as SSD, but USB 3.0 makes it very fast anyway. It looks great too. It would be nice if Seagate was also giving some sort of case for it as I had to buy one separately not to scratch it.
5|Searched quite a few external storage devices before finally settling on this one. It is about the size of a mobile phone and not very thick and holds 1tb data, couldn't ask for more it's done the job and doesn't take up space in my desk and the price is competitive.
5|Fantastic, compact drive with a classy metal finish. Works silent, and see no issues so far. I can't believe it's so slim for a 2TB drive, much slimmer than the WD Passport Ultra and Elements models, even slimmer than the 1TB ones! USB 3.0 works as fast as expected.
5|A nice compact portable hard drive. Easy to use and seems quite robust. Powered from USB but I wouldn't expect an externally powered one these days. It is a bit pricy, but you do get 4TB. My only concern would be how well does it last and only time will tell.
5|This is very thin compared to other hard drives out there, I normally use Western Digitals but I'm switching to this purely because of the size and it does the job. I have had this for a while (almost 10 months) and so far no problems what so ever.
5|using for mac time machine. looks good, is quick and quiet.
5|I bought this for work and it has so much storage, I have all my files for the past 3 years and have not even dented the storage provided. It does what it says on the tin. Only gripe and not sure if it is just my pc, some files are really slow to open.
5|This 500Gb external hard drive is alarmingly thin and compact! It is a dream to carry around with you and weighs next to nothing. It is difficult to not dwell on its size, shape and feel because this is a product that once you get it out of its cardboard box you have got to hold it in your hand - it has "desire-me" written all over it. This is not something to leave on your desk all the time - it deserves trips out, so that it can be seen. It has a fast access time and delivers files on demand exactly the way you want them. On first connection it installs its own drivers and then you have the option of installing "seagate dashboard". This piece of software will control your hard drive and enable organsied backups without problem. 500Gb doesn't seem a lot these days, but for the size of the box it is amazing. I cannot recommend this drive enough.
5|wonderful bit of kit,i use it to store films on from my hard drive,nb it removes the film from the hard drive when you copy each way[ one hard drive to another ] but you can copy to a dvd without it removing the film from the Seagate hd,hope this helps
5|Quiet, well built and sleek. The perfect external drive.
5|Excellent bit of kit. I'm loving it. My laptop has run out of memory so I am using it as my working drive for all photos, music and documents. It is fast, neat and attrative and above all it has lots of space. Delighted with it and the quick service.
5|This Seagate 1TB Backup Plus External Hard Drive is an excellent solution for the reluctant backupper (I know that's not a word but feel it should be...). The included software (Seagate Dashboard) is very simple to use and can be set to continuously monitor your system and back it up automatically, or you can do it manually if you're more comfortable with that. It also has the option to back up information from your social media (Facebook, Flickr and YouTube) accounts if you wish, or you can disable this. The drive is spacious (1TB), fast, and compact. Also it is a very attractive (and bright, thus harder to misplace) blue colour. One quibble I have is that it does not use a standard size connection between the USB cable and the drive, so if this cable is lost or damaged then you can't readily find a replacement, but this is a minor point. Great product.
5|The usual high quality from Seagate, the silver metal look finish is stylish. just plugged into mac and it became my allpe storage in seconds. Delivery was equally good from Amazon it arrived in 3 days packed securely in Amazon style packaging.
5|Excellent product, very competitively priced. Used the HDD inside to replace the HDD on my PS4, swapped the old PS4 drive into this and use it on my smart TV. Much cheaper way of upgrading PS4 hard drive than buying a drive with no enclosure.
5|Great product. Opened the casing removed the HDD drive and installed into a PS4 that had a 500GB factory fit drive. Put the 500GB PS4 drive back into the seagate casing, formatted it and now using the PS4 drive in my PC as an external drive.
5|Tiny, slim, and good looking. Performance fine so far.
5|Does exactly what it says on the tin. I bought this as a back up for my laptop and it's been great so far. Small and neat if it needs to travel, runs nice and quick, easy set up and operation, nothing else to report. Good value for money.
1|Only six months old and failed already. Never moved from my desk. Hardly ever touched, yet just failed. Obviously got a 3.30 p.m. Friday unit!! Luckily I also copy to a memory stick. Don't think I will buy another Seagate in the future.
5|Firstly let's talk about the size of this HD, because let's face it that's why most people would consider buying it, 4TB in a 2.5" notebook hard drive format would have been unthinkable a long time ago and until recently I was forced to use powered desktop external drives to get anywhere close to this capacity. This is a major win/wow factor for me the face that this is USB powered rather than to have to plug it in. I have used this on a couple of systems (One runnign Win 7 one running Win 8) and no issues with either. Not the best looking hard drive in the world but the transfer speed is very good. To be honest if you want a self powered HD that can store all your media/back everything up and that you can carry around with you I think this is exceptional right now.
5|I removed the 2TB HDD from this and placed it inside my laptop. No problems so far, and was even able to reuse the case with another HDD. Just be a bit careful when prying the casing apart if you plan to take the 2TB HDD within.
2|After a couple of months started making a funny noise when I plugged it in and wouldn't work. To send it back under warranty you have to get a report code from their SeaTools troubleshooting program which just crashes all the time.
5|Excellent travel companion space saver for all my Films, Music etc. No more heavy DVDs, or CDS or paperwork to lug around. This is my 4th Hardrive - 2TB is perfect size. Easy to use. Arrived earlier than expected - thank you.
5|Ordered this product and got it within two days. It is so small compared to other external hard drives, especially for 2TB! I highly recommend this product for anyone seeking a really good hard drive for a really good price.
5|Good value for money. It was speedy enough, but I don't think I tested the USB3. I am most satisfied about the casing - sleek aluminium on the top and light plastic on the back. Feels premium without being overweight!
4|Awesome little drive with bags of storage, I took it apart and replaced the interior drive on my 2010 Macbook Pro with this one. My father in law uses one as the backup drive on his iMac and so far it's working flawlessly.
4|Works well but instructions could have been clearer, for set up. The need to register the product before you could activate the download was shown but was hidden by another page. Once activated, I have been very pleased.
5|great price bought for xbox one external drive for my COD Advanced warfare console so now have 3TB hdd, and bought another but from currys as it was the same price as amazon which was an xmas present for our boys xbox one
5|Doesn't require any power other than the USB socket, and looks fantastic when with my MacBook. Not too big or heavy so easy to carry around and decent transfer speeds. For the quality i'd say it was the best value around.
5|Compared with my other 500GB Seagate portable hard drive, this is much sleeker and more compact. The brushed metallic feel and its slimline size make it even more travel-friendly. The price reflects not only its quality (Seagate are my go-to brand for all things Drive) but also the addition of USB3 functionality, facilitating faster operational speeds. In addition, you are able to download software onto your computer if you so wish, which enables you to backup onto a cloud, or also to backup your data from social networks such as Facebook and Flickr. It allows you to upload multiple files at once, which is a welcome timesaver. Comes highly recommended.
5|I've used a number of different manufacturers drives for backup (WD My book's & the awful Samsung W3) and this is by the far the best solution I've found. It's very fast (USB3) I copied 50GB of photos to it in under 8 minutes. It has a very solid construction, a metal case with a hard plastic back and is small and light enough to easily slip into a jacket pocket. Its powered over USB which saves a lot of faffing about with external power bricks. Best of all it appears very reliable (unlike the Samsung which drops the USB connection every few minutes) I've now got a couple of these units just in case one fails and have no regrets at all.
5|Wow, this hard drive is tiny and completely silent. I am using it with Time Machine on my iMac (it was a breeze to reformat using disk utility) and I have to say, I have never had such a quiet hard drive. Fast too!
5|I notice there are some technical reviews that others has put together that criticise the lack of standard interface on this drive and that you cannot readily remove the drive for installation into another machine. Oh well. If that’s what you want, this isn’t the drive for you. If on the other hand you want a well built, tidy, extremely compact portable storage disk with a respectable disk space and fast USB3.0 then this is ideal. I’ve had several Seagate drives in the past and they have proven to be amongst the best for the money; the pricing for a respected brand is fairly competitive so I have nothing but praise. Very nice.
5|The size is great and it is working very well
5|Its so slim & quiet u can barely hear it spin. Transfered ~50GB & it was barely warm, metal casing helps keep it cool. Think I'll be buying some more of these & selling off my older smaller drives.!
5|This is my second Seagate slim 2.5" external drive and I find serves my purposes very well, much better than a flash-drive if only because the chances of mislaying it while travelling are so much smaller.
5|Very easy to set up and use. Just plug and play. Have not tried the network features but works great as an external hard drive. Only time. Will tell as to the reliability of the drive but so far no problems.
5|This has never let me down in 6 months of use. It has a hard metal exterior and is tiny - smaller than my iPhone. 1TB for a low price means I can back up my whole laptop and have room for an archive on here.
5|These USB3 drives are great value and being 2.5 inch drives so easy to carry round 2TB capacity of whatever you want. Pink too so it was again perfect as it matched her pc and case and anything else pink
5|I bought 2 of these drives. They are very slim and very fast. They are reasonably fast if your PC only has a USB 2 port. But if you have USB 3 on your computer, then these things are really, really speedy.
5|This is the third Seagate back up drive we've bought, they get slimmer and lighter each time we buy one. They are tough, reliable and do exactly what they are designed to do - store information externally.
5|Brilliant harddrive. Had no problems with it so far. Very low sound but I transferred a huge amount of data at a time. Warms up slightly after long use (but this is quite normal with most most equipment).
5|It's Brilliant, works well, easy to format and set up for both Apple & PC. Also very helpful that it is available in different colours eliminating the need to have to check which one one is looking for!
5|It has certainly been a lifesaver - I used it to back up all my info before upgrading to another computer. I lost a lot of info/work last time this happened and this time it was easy and straightforward!
3|Would have given a 5* but the hard drive doesn't work with my playstation 4, but i was informed it would, however very useful for my macbook pro, vey quick transfer speeds and obviously a lot of space
5|Brilliant bit of kit: Compact and sleek and does what it says on the tin. For first time buyers it's important to be aware that the usable capacity is 1.8tb. Speedy delivery and in perfect condition.
4|The item is fine, but the manufacturer's website and software set up process is badly designed so go round in circles for a while. Now up and running, it's fast and reliable. Not cheap but well made.
5|Have yet to use it but if its appearance is anything to go by, I like it....a lot!. The reviews I read of Seagate made my decision very easy indeed, it's a no brainer.......which sums me up I reckon
2|Unlike a previous seagate I was unable to use the built in programme and used the Windows system to backup Although USB3 is supposed to be faster it took over 4 hours to copy to the drive
5|I recently got this seagate hd to backup all my serato dj music and use it out in clubs via digital software, its small and fast and does the job well! Very highly recommeded and a bargain in all!
5|Purchased this to put in my PS4 as its cheaper than buying the drive alone. Simply pull the casing apart and remove the sata drive within. Works like a charm since update 1.70 to allow 2tb drives.
4|It is a super slick and silent driver. Everyone loves the colour. The only caveat is that I could not make it work with both of my Macs which have different versions. Love the mobile sync option.
1|I bought this drive recently to back up my personal data files because all my business files are backed up daily to an external server. After 2 months this drive had an internal error meaning I can no longer access any files on it. I have been told its highly likely that the files are now corrupted but they have offered to recover the data for me for £450. That's very good of them to let me pay them all that money to get the file back I trusted onto their hardware, funnily enough I chose to decline their offer. Do not buy one of these!!!
5|Great compact product. Back ups manual or auto very easy to do. Just connect, go into Computer and there it is already set up to go.This is my second as it is so easy and compact for travelling.
5|For a 4 Tb drive it's the best deal right now. It's a great product, quiet, fast, compact and a nice design. I've got several, it's my first 4 Tb but this one is really quiet.
5|I've got many portable hard drives, all of which have smaller drives, but larger enclosures, so I was surprised just how slim this drive was. 2Tb at this size and this price is a great deal.
5|Fantastic, useful and really slim design
5|Working great, took it out of the case without issues (as it was cheaper than buying the hdd separately). It does not look like the case can be reused, but that was not the intention either.
5|This little USB disc solved all my different backup problems. No fuss. Straight forward. And the great thing is: It's portable which means it is in your bag when you need it away from home.
5|Having already purchased a Seagate portable harddrive. I decided to get one for my other half. She was delighted, so was I. Prompt delivery with secure packaging. Fab!! Thank you.
5|Supprisingly sturdy, I have dropped it a few times and thought "oh dear, I guess that backup is gone" but no it is completly fine amd it stores 3 laptops worth of data. Really nice!
5|really good condition and speed is fast
5|Does what it should. I have a Mac so was a little concerned but it was east to use on my system as long as you follow the prompts. Extremely small which allows you to hide it easiiy.
4|Great product and a lot of space on a small size drive! Easy to use and very quiet in operation. One negative point - I have had to reformat to switch between using it on a PC and Mac.
5|Huge capacity in such a small space! Not more cost effective than a 2tb hard drive but if you think that you would fill a 2tb I would recommend this to future proof your purchase.
1|Incorrect product information given. IT IS NOT COMPATIBLE BETWEEN PC AND MAC. When is says "between" mac and pc it means as a read only copy, there is no way to edit or even save things when on a mac with it, I can only use a pc when I need to be able to go between work and home and use it on both. This was not made clear and they shouldn't be allowed to sell their item as compatible for both when its not! if i could have given it 0 stars I would have!
5|Amazing 2TB external harddrive. I was surprised when I got this in the post. It's tiny and thin. The USB 3.0 makes it fast. No adaptor needed either. Best buy of 2015 so far :-)
5|Very high quality. I have owned other portable hard disk drives in the past but this looks like a different class. I still does very much the same job but it looks very cool.
3|Not enough information on how to use
1|This drive has a constant issue with Late 2013 iMacs and the same one (but intermittent) with other Macs like the macbook Pro with Retina display. Had two of these drives and both display exactly the same issue, so it's not a one off. Basically when the Mac goes to sleep something causes the drive to eject itself leading to an error message that one has unsafely ejected the drive. The other 2TB portable drive that Seagate do (the "Expansion" drive) does not display with fault. It's not as pretty looking or slim, but has the same hard drive inside but evidently a compatible SATA board. Seagate's tech support was the next best thing to useless. They just kept saying that I'd have to talk to Apple as it was a fault with the iMac or OS X. That much *might* be true, but the fact other drives DON'T display this issue (just this one) is probably some form of sign that the problem is more likely with the drive. Also the promised Mac backups don't exist - Seagate Dashboard (the bundled software) only has backup functionality on Windows, so it's Time Machine or a third party app. I was hoping not to use Time Machine as I just wanted backups of certain folders, but, as I said, no joy from Seagate - I'd have to buy another app to do it. The bundled NTFS driver is basically just the Paragon driver, and it's quite old. I experienced data corruption with large video files, which went away when I installed a demo of Paragon's latest version. Again - want to do what Seagate promise? It will cost you more money.
5|A light and handy backup device to backup any important docs. There is a build-in backup system - but I don't use it. I like my old-school dragging and dropping :)
5|Anything that safeguards the primary data has to be good news in the event of a disaster. I use a separate partition on the drive for common files between all my computers.
3|Arrived formatted as NTFS so you will need to download and install NTFS for Mac (or similar) before you can read the drive. I've now re-formatted it for Mac and it's fine.
5|Perfect for my needs. When I travel, this will now take up far less room than other External Hard Drives and does not have all the wires that would have to accompany them.
1|I have a Seagate for my Windows laptop, and wanted one for my Mac. I bought this because it's compatible. Plug in and use? Nope. I cannot drop files to it and upon investigating it says the format is Windows, that's why I can't drop files from my Mac to it. I try to reformat it and it won't let me. Can someone explain please how this easy to use external is giving a headache. Will be contacting the seller.
4|I am not a computer whizz kid but l found it easy enough to use and back up with. I love the size . 4 star for me only because l will not use enough for 5 stars
4|Nice bit of kit but not straight forward to set up for iOS, might need to be a bit computer savvy to get up and running. Needs software download to get up and running!
5|Bought one for my son, as he wanted it for storing gaming stuff! He says he is delighted with it, and it uses far less space than he expected to store all his things on
5|I use this HDD as a backup drive but it'll work just as well as a portable storage unit. Overall I'm really pleased with it and would definitely recommend it to others
4|Amazing design, but my sony tv can't play movies direct, wired when it accepts cheap flash drives in USB. But top quality slimline stainless effect. Best out there
4|Nice little hard drive, very quiet. Compatibility with Mac was a bit of an issue as had to download software that didnt seem to work so ended up formatting the drive.
5|Just to clear up any misunderstandings this HD is the 9mm depth so thin enough to put in a laptop/notebook, whichever nomenclature you prefer. The WD ones are fatter.
5|Delivery was excellent ahead of estimated date. Does the job very easy to use, got it for my mac book pro. I'm thinking of getting another one for desk top computer
4|Does the job well. The software that comes with it is a bit confusing. It's a lot easier when you've reformated it in Disk utility (on mac) to just drag and drop.
4|No problem till now. we have moved lots of our photos into it. we are not worried about the space in the system. hope to be careful while handing the device.
5|compact design and ease of use,perfect for extra storage space and backing up files. Have bought Seagate 320gb in the past and very pleased with its perfpormance.
4|Ideal back up system for my laptop. Managed to partition the hard drive to back up all the memory from the laptop and remained store the music, films and films.
4|Nice and compact. Appears to work fine (only used as simple drag and drop backup drive - not tried the software). Was reasonably priced for the capacity.
4|A great product with excellent transfer speeds, only downside I've found is that I can't easily drag files directly onto the hard-drive using Apple products.
5|Using this as the Time Machine Drive on my iMac Retina. Just plug it in and away you go. Frankly there's not much else to say. It just gets on with the job!
5|Fantastic product, incredibly easy to install and works perfectly with the xbox one console. If anybody is struggling for space I highly recommend this item
5|A great product with sleek slim design, great capacity and very user friendly and easy to handle. Compatible with both PCs and Macs. Definitely recommend.
5|Brilliant peice of kit. Does exactly what I expected it too. Unexpected bonus is its really small and extremely quiet. Recommended!
5|USB 3.0 is super fast. I like the slim drive it is what it says it is very slim easy to use. I partitioned mine for mac and windows use
5|Well packaged to prevent damage , looks really smart and does its job with the minimum of fuss ? Easily set up and a great way to back up your files.
5|Good robust product. Worked well for a daughter off to work in the French alps with little Internet, she managed to put a lot of her DVDs on this.
5|I bought this for the wife to back up her Mackbook ( we dont trust THE CLOUD and theyre always being hacked) It does what it says on the tin .
5|Super Awesome Product and Supper quick delivery from Amazon! Very good and compatible with my Macbook Pro. Its a small and beautiful looking drive.
1|I bought this to back up my computer and to do that I installed Seagate dashboard. It is a massive application (177 MB) and it installed many other programs to my computer which slowed down my computer to trash so that even typing in Microsoft Word lags, it is like using iPhone 4 with iOS7 system, iPhone users know how laggy it is. Basically everything lags even keyboard strokes. And this is massively annoying. I am uninstalling the dashboard and I will use this as a USB stick from now on. Not recommended. If you buy, do not install the dashboard Edit: I can confirm that uninstalling the dashboard visibly speeds up the computer.
5|Best hard drive I've had. Very asy to use and feels reliable and sturdy. The connection is a little delicate, but that's because its quite thin.
2|This was fine for a few days then the device doesn't show up on the desktop anymore for some reason... There are more user-friendly alternatives.
5|Brilliant - can't fault it!!
5|Had it a few months now & it's working perfectly - it's one of several I now own: highly recommended, love not needing an external power supply
3|Good hard drive no problems except for the usb lead not the normal usb cable special Cable required not sure if these are freely available.
5|This is the best external drive out on the market Extremely durable and very fast. The design is very sleek and compact. Absolutely must-have!
5|Does what it says on the box. Plug it in and follow the instructions. Quiet and very little heat from the unit. Would recommend this product.
5|Excellent product and value for money. Simple plug & play, so no UI. Being used as a backup for data and image of my laptop. Small and light,
5|I use mine with a free-sat receiver. I now have over 50 hours of films, and it is only 4% used. Long delivery time, but worth it.
5|As the tutorial videos are keen to mention, Seagate have been the leader in Hard Drive technology for over 30 years. This latest release has 2 major marketing points - its size, and its new Seagate Dashboard technology. At first, I was alittle dismayed when opening the box to find zero instructions, but generally with hard drives it's a simple case of plug in and go. In a clever, and obvious way to cut down on unnecessary packaging, companies like Seagate are becoming more innovative in delivering their insructional content. Seagate have been providing soft copy guides within their hardware, as well as links to online instructions for some time now. This time, included on the hard drive are 4 tutorial videos - an introduction to the product, protection (PEACE OF MIND!), saving social media files, and sharing social media files. Those last 3 videos discuss how to use the Seagate Dashboard technology, which is quite clever and simple to use once you have completed the download. It should be stressed that you don't need to use this software in order to use the product, but that if buying this particualr product rather than another, that would be the intention. The videos are typical grating American nonsene, all glossy, smiley, and vapid presentations by your new best friend Janelle (Hi! I'm Janelle!). They are informative, and by and large contain all the information you need, but you'll likely delete after one (or half) viewing. They come in a series of languages, from English and French, to Korean, Chinese, and beyond. The first thing I did naturally, was transfer a few large files to and from the Hard Drive via the USB 3.0 cable, which worked perfectly fine - fast, easy, as it should be. The Dashboard functionality works well for those who don't want the hassle of uploading to or from social media sites - there is the option to register for free online cloud storage for a year, but I didn't go for this in case they keep pestering me once the year is up. Size wise it is again remarkably small for those of us who remember when you had to keep all your music and movies in honest-to-God boxes, shelves, and cupboards. It is considerably lighter than the last Seagate I got(the 1TB portable built in Wifi device, and it retains the sleek, modern feel with a simple finish, 1 logo, 1 light. It's a little pricey at the moment for a hard drive with around 500Gb storage, but if you want something slim line or crave that social networking ease, then this is a strong contender, especially when, as Janelle reminds us (Hi! I'm Janelle!) that Seagate have been the leader in Hard Drive technology for over 30 years. Did I say that already? PEACE OF MIND!
5|Hard drive has worked as described since purchase. Fast enough to copy files between machine and and external HDD and works as described.
4|Early days but I was able to backup my photos which I had been having difficulty with my previous external hard drive so that's a relief
5|A very good buy. Small and neat, fits in anywhere, and does what it is meant to. Amazing, really pleased with it, would recommend.
1|Hate this with a vengence used as a working drive then it stopped, was about 7 months old, sent it to a speciality recovery company coluldnt be recovered lost about a years woth of work, Dont recommend this pile of S**T. Ended up throwwing at a wall and stamping on it.
1|I have three of these drives which work with my Air and iMac. None of them will work with my Mac Pro however. I have tried another Mac Pro as well and I get the same result; the computer will not read, write nor format the drive. I have formatted and zero-ed out the drives on my Air and they still don't work with the Pro. I have checked that the drives have the latest firmware and still no dice.
5|just as requested. thanks
5|This hard drive is reliable, sturdy, stylish and tactile. Transfers are nice and fast. Great storage device from seagate, as always!
5|This was a present for my husband he was really pleased with it.My son had allready bought one he would reccomend it to other people
5|Incredibly fast drive, really well optimized and is a lovely size too, fits wonderfully in my daily bag and never leave without it.
5|Agonised for a while over drives. This one was great value - easy to connect to time machine and working like a dream two weeks in.
4|Works great and have had no problems with it. This is the second I've bought for backups and would definitely consider buying more
5|best hard drive i have purchased in a while, its fast reliable, works on mac and windows plus has a manual for dual use. Great buy
5|Really neat,an excellent partner to my iMac Book,it lends itself well suited for my time machine and fits well into my briefcase.
5|Good value for the price
5|Used this for a ps4 hard drive upgrade, swapped the hard drives and now have a 2tb ps4 and a 500gb ext and no issues with either
5|Although very satisfied with the product, I don't like the fact that it has a special USB port - not a mini USB one like others.
5|This is a very compact, speedy device and when it's working it doesn't make a noise and it doesn't run hot. I like it very much.
5|Extremely small hard drive for a 2TB much smaller the my old 500GB hard drive I would recommended this very slim sleek design
5|Takes all our family pictures plus other files & hardly taken any space on it, just plug in & away you go. Quick delivery too
5|nice and quick delivery
5|Early days but so far it's matched expectations working with my MacBook Pro. Really compact, quiet and stylish. Recommended!
1|Found this to be really awkward to set up for Mac back up even after downloading the latest software. Would not buy another.
5|Arrived promptly. Easy to use - we use it to backup our main server. Can't believe how small and light it is. Very pleased.
5|Very smally unit- would fit in your pocket. Nicely built. Silent. Very fast. And it's 2TB - so massive. What's not to like?
5|Bought this to back up my iMac. It's very small and works flawlessly, silently and is fast thanks to the USB 3 connection.
5|works really well - especially the true USB 3 connection .. very fast . .and great for backing up all my photo's and music
4|It's a slim drive that looks nice and can easily fit in compact places. For my video review - http://youtu.be/Q97uefnFKuE
5|For a technophobe this product was a big help. Easy to set up, easy to use and takes up no more room than a mobile phone.
1|The item arrived promptly, well packaged, no signs of damage. However, from the very first use the product failed. When attempting large file transfers, such as when trying to back-up my computer, after a few hours the device made a repetitive click-whirring sound. No further file transfer occured from that point onwards, and depending on what method I was using (backup software vs drag-and-drop of large folders) it would either just hang at that point, or crash the computer. Unclear what made the reader head/arm fail after a few hours use each time, but the individual drive I had was clearly no use as a back-up. The drive was returned to Amazon within the standard 30 day period, with a prompt and full refund with no difficulties. Although a minor hassle, in some ways glad mine was faulty straight out of the box rather than losing everything a few weeks/months down the line. The identical drive bought by my girlfriend at the same time I bought mine still seems to working fine. Whether I was just unlucky and had a one-in-10,000 faulty drive, or whether there is an underlying weakness to this model isn't yet clear, but I'll be sticking clear of it and looking for something else.
5|Excellent item, very pleased with my purchase, good quality product, very quickly delivery, Excellent Service. Thank You
5|I've bought a few of these little drives now for different Macs and they work excellent with Time Machine. Great value!
5|I had already purchased one of these drives so was happy to have a second back up as they are so simple and reliable.
5|Great product - plug and play with my Mac computers and fast speeds experienced in data transfer using USB 3.0 ports.
5|Small, light, fast. Easy to set up. Back up was running in 1 minute. Great product, might get a case for it though.
4|Excellent purchase! Very compact, modern design. Easy to set up and backs up your files smoothly. Highly recommend.
5|Awesome, Use it with my SMart tv... :D Totally recommend, perfect size, colour and it does what it's meant to do...
4|Nice and does as it should do, so I've no complaints. The image might make you think it is blue all over, it isn't.
1|Anything that takes more than 15 minutes to set up is useless in this day and age. All I want to do is transfer files from my laptop to this external HDD. The registration process took a few minutes and it forces you to download something user-unfriendly called Seagate Drive so that they can keep track of you forever while slowing your PC down and sending you pointless updates and emails. Once I figure out how to save my files - which is ALL I want to do I'll update this review. Assuming I ever figure that out. And I understand tech very well so if you don't then stay away from this useless piece of kit.
5|Quick delivery. Backed up my PC very quick, no problems so far. Totally easy to use and very compact. Great value.
5|A very fast and very large-capacity (at the time of writing) slim storage device - and the colour is okay as well.
5|Once installed the back ups are easy and very fast. Great product to have external back up drive in case of need.
4|Does a great job backingup our Windows computer. Very easy to setup and looks after the backup without prompting.
5|ideal for the job, very compact yet looks smart. Very happy with product and will probably be buying another soon
3|Difficult to get to grips with, impossible to find instructions and what I can find seem to be written for geeks,
5|Neat compact size for 1TB and easy to install. Purchased for laptop and very happy a few days into purchase.
5|Good design, very practical to carry with you and has lots of memory space. Really satisfied with this purchase.
5|Arrived before the expected delivery date, good price, good product, free delivery, what was there not to like?
5|The quality of the Seagate hard drives always make these a favourite for me, not only from the sleek good looks but the quality build shows through. To say it is only 500gb which is perfect for the xbox etc, it is also fast at transferring data from the computer or another hard drive that is connected to to the same computer. I am using this to store all my audio books in one place instead of having them dotted out between all the other hard drives I have. So I only need to connect it to the computer when adding or transferring books to my device. It weighs around 150g so it is very light. The size is small and cute with a brushed steel look, which makes it look cool & sleek. 11.4cm length by 7.6cm width and about 1cm thick. Easy plug & play so no having no messing about. Small enough to put it in your pocket if taking to a friends house, perfect. Yes there are cheaper 500gb hard drives out there but knowing the quality assurance of Seagates hard drives always make these a better buy. For Mac or PC.
5|I wanted to get a back up device that was small, neat, unobtrusive, and quiet for my wife to use with her laptop. She doesn't have USB 3, but it works fine on USB 2 ... after the initial install ... the inevitable search for updates and reinstall, the first back up was done in less than half an hour, not bad considering the thousands of photos she has on there. I hardly heard a peep out of it, and all you can feel is a minor vibration if you touch it to prove the internals are whirring away. My wife has it set up so that any new files are automatically backed up ... this feature is a boon for her as backing up usually gets done every couple of months otherwise. There are features that you can link in to social media sites like Facebook and download your content, nice idea if you want to do that sort of thing. As I said at the start of the review. I wanted something small and neat, that would quietly get on with the task at hand ... I think the Seagate 1TB Backup Plus does that job quite nicely.
5|Great bit of kit. I now store my films on here instead of on my computer. USB 3 allows for quick transfers too
5|2 TB - a lot of info on here but works a treat - quite fast on transfers so well pleased - especially at price
5|So far so good. Good service and good looking small drive. does what I expected it to do! I would recommend.
5|great storage for the photographs and videos which was clogging up my PC, easy to use and access from mains.
5|A great piece of equiptment that also looks good too. Really easy to use and comes with cloud storage too.
4|So far so good - hope this one is better than the previous 2 hard drives I have bought and had to destroy.
5|Excellent size and performance. Simple to use, Has excellent reviews from trusted sites. Not disapointed
5|It has been a life saver as I use it to put on the recording of my pastor and then upload it onto YouTube
4|This works straight out of the box and I was really happy with how small it was compared to older models.
5|Silent, fast, lightweight and neat. What else there is to say. The product is 1:1 with what was expected.
5|It's so light that you wouldn't mind carry it with you all the time. And the red colour's just beautiful.
5|Bought as present for my son. It's still working several months later. Small and portable. He's happy.
5|Delivered within 24 hours. Plugged in and moving folders and files within 2 minutes. Just what I wanted.
5|I like this external HDD. It is smaller, slimmer, quieter and faster than any external HDD I get before.
4|Have only used it once so far to backup my PC and worked ok. USB cable rather short but otherwise fine.
4|Good hard drive, great value. Only downside is the proprietary seagate software you have to use with it
5|Came really quickly, fresh in the box. Now serving me well as I really needed this external hard drive!
5|A good make at a very good priced portable hard drive .Its easy to use copies nicely.A very good buy .
5|Quiet, fast, very portable and no external power need to drive it. I am very happy with this purchase.
5|This is serving me so well, i have now bought two, quiet, efficient, and I hope will last for years.
4|Purchased for my son as he just wont buy one himself. Very good value and I am assuming very useful.
5|Purchased to upgrade my PS4 hard drive. Works great and is actually a Samsung drive inside the caddy.
3|It works fine now, but was a pain to set up for a Mac even though it is described as being suitable.
4|It's ok, but not as easy to use as my old Seagate which wasn't compatible with Windows 8.1 - a shame.
5|works with my MacBook Pro, easy drag and drop is all I wanted, now all my files are safe and secure.
4|Works great. Just need better information when setting up for time machine, ie partitioning.
5|Bought at a decent price and easy to use. Same sort of size as a man's wallet. Glad we bought it.
5|I've had a few Seagate USB drives. All have worked well for me. This one is new, but my previous good experiences with them tell me not to expect trouble. It's a good-looking, lightweight and small unit. It is easy to use: plug it into a USB port and start writing files to it. We've used them on Mac and Windows without trouble. The drive comes with video tutorials. If you are completely new to computers, the tutorials will be useful, but otherwise they can be ignored. Bundled backup software has a very long history or being either (a) so badly written as to be unusable, or (b) a useless demo version. Seagate has been foisting such stuff on users for decades, but I have to say that they are actually starting to produce backup software worthy of the name. I prefer to use other backup packages, but the bundled one isn't at all bad.
5|Very light and slim so easy to carry between work and home. Convenient to attach and efficient.
5|As always product was well packed and delivered the next day, it iis now fitted and working well
5|STYLISH ======= Looks may not be important when choosing a suitable, portable hard drive. But this little beauty really feels and looks nice in the hand. However, what is more important is that the device is quick, efficient and in the case of a portable hard drive-light. WEIGHT ====== It weighs the equivalent of a mobile telephone. About 150 grams. It feels much lighter though. TRANSFER ======== It was quick transferring a few films of several GBs (a few minutes) MAC OR PC ========= I used it on both a PC and a MAC. It was able to effortlessly transfer files from one to the other without the need for either Mac proprietary formatting or PC formatting. RECOMMENDED? ============ In the words of the Churchill dog, "oh Yes"
1|DO NOT BUY THIS - it's a disaster from Seagate. Firstly, the drive is slow to pick up connection - I am running virtual machines and connecting encrypyted files and this useless contraption cannot pickup the signal fast enough when the laptop is started from sleep mode to activate itself and keep the links live! - all links get lost and have to be reset up - this should not happen when taking the laptop out of sleep mode - I cannot start my work over and over again and lose unsaved work. Secondly, the connection cable between this harddrive and the USB in the laptop is so flimsy and loose that it keeps on disconnecting at the slightest movement - my laptop usb works fine and holds the connections with other external 2.5 harddrives consistently. Thirdly, the idiots have made the outside of the case with a SLIPPERY surface - meaning that when it's on your laptop, it just slides around and can easily fly off when you move about - it has no grip whatsoever - and this thing is holding my VALUABLE all important data. All in all a poor piece of engineering from an otherwise good company. Finally, their 500 2.5 exterbal hardrive was great - shame they cannot keep up the good work. AVOID THIS JUNK AND THE 2T BASED ON THIS.
5|Great product, very quiet plug and play device powered by the usb from the computer. Recommend.
5|No plugs. Powered completely by USB 3.0 really simple to use. Using it for my xbox. It's great.
5|For me, this is a perfect upgrade from my old Toshiba portable drive which had too many annoying habits to mention. The first impression is that of a solidly built device; a sturdy metal case and it comes with a (very) short USB3 cable. No power supply is needed as this is USB powered. I connected this up using the supplied cable but others may find the cable too short. Note that if you want USB3 speeds, only a USB3 cable will do; you can’t use a USB2 cable & expect the highest speeds. Even though the USB1/2 cables will fit into this device, the USB 3 cable will not fit into a USB2 device. Using this HD with a USB2 connection on my PC, I got a respectable 20bps transfer rate. This isn’t as good as, say, my Corsair USB3 memory stick which attains 25mbps but is acceptable. With a USB3 connection, the real-world transfer speed went up to over 100mbps! There’s no software needed to use the HD but Seagate’s backup software is included on the drive. I’ve not tried this yet but will update my review once I have. Overall this is a worthy upgrade from my older portable drive. At a current RRP of around £60, this is good value, given the transfer speeds and build quality.
1|I bought this drive for several reasons: 1) it's supposedly specifically for Mac Time Machine back ups 2) it's Seagate 3) I'd just bought a brand new 27" Mac and needed USB 3.0, backward compatible. What a thorough disappointment!!! It took much longer than expected to perform a first back up. It did one more back up and afterwards, every time the Mac went to sleep, I would get the 'drive did not close down properly' message. Try to eject the drive and nothing happens. It's already shut itself down and won't play nicely. So what then, do we have to do hard reboot every time the drive plays up, or do we have to eject it before the Mac sleeps? No, we pull the plug on it and connect another HDD that has worked without fuss on another computer. My recommendation would be to avoid this purchase in the first place.
5|Excellent drive.
5|This is fast, reliable, quiet, good price, i bought another one and both been working 1+ year.
5|This is my second Seagate. I bought the fits one years ago and it is still working perfectly.
5|Excellent product, does what it claims and has been problem free. Would use this company again
5|Excellent hard drive does everything you could need and is tiny enough to have in your pocket!
5|Excellent and extremely light and slim! Works seemlesly with time machine! Highly recommended.
5|Easy to install and easy to use with just a connection to my laptop. Light and smart looking.
5|Perfect backup drive compact and not bulky. Purchased for my son who started Uni this year.
5|What can one say about memory. Compact and it does what it claims to do. Competitive price.
5|This is the 3rd Seagate I have bought for the family, they do the job and very well priced.
5|arrived fast, looks great-sleek looking, fast transfer rate, everything i was looking for
5|Bought for seagoing grandson. Travelled the globe. Never missed a beat. Music, videos etc.
4|As the description of this drive mentions the word 'slim' several times, I was expecting this to be a very slim drive. Actually, it's not that slim. It's about a quarter slimmer (maybe 3 to 5 mm slimmer) than several other 500GB drives that I had bought maybe 18 months to 2 years ago. So technology hasn't allowed the drives to be cut down in thickness much more. So please don't buy this if you think that you are getting something wafer-thin. You're not. It is an attractive drive with its brushed metal surface (although it is black plastic underneath). But to me, what it looks like is immaterial. The only other selling point is that it allows you to connect via USB 3.0, which allows massively faster transfer times.
4|Seems to work well with my desktop and laptop. Plug and play - cannot go wrong with that.
5|working very well, do the job as expected!! Now the question is, how long will it last :)
5|Recommended by my daughter who had bought the same item recently. Easy to set up and use.
5|Quick delivery. Installed on IMac with no problems. Build quality looks good. Very quiet.
5|Had this drive for a year and a half now and its not failed. Works great and very silent
5|Reasonable price, amazing size and pretty great. Will buy another one soon when I run out
5|Fast, eminently portable, truly plug and play, and comes with its own backup app as well.
4|A lovely, small bit of kit which was set up only after a bit of research but works fine.
1|After downloading all my photos, documents it broke down after 4 days, lost all my work.
4|has benn working away for best of 3 months- so far very good, very quick! very portable!
5|Good quality and appearance, even smaller than my 1TB hard drive. seagate is trustworthy
5|This is a small format external USB drive. It comes preformatted as NTFS and comes in at 931 GB (remember the 1 TB storage claim is for the unformatted drive). It comes with a shot USB 3 cable which allows for easy connection to a laptop, but I use a longer one to attach to my desktop computer. Speed is pretty good and in operation the drive is very quiet. It will attach equally happily to a USB 3 or USB 2 port using the same cable. I work in IT and I mainly use this to copy ISO files from one place to another, or to mount them in a hypervisor temporarily and I've had no performance issues. I'm not sure how robust it will be if I drop it or treat it badly on the move... Overall I'm quite impressed.
5|Just what I needed to backup all my photographs, very easy to use , just plug and play.
5|Bought to put in my PS4. Process took around 10 minutes to install. Works like a charm!
5|Small. slim and enough storage space to back up important data like photos and thesis.
4|I received it yesterday. I like it, too light weight. So nothing to worry to carry it.
5|Does its job, and is so thin. Amazing. Slip in the pocket with no trouble at all.
5|Excellent drive. Compact, very low noise and super quick. Does tend to run hot though.
1|The pictures are wrong. They are not of the STDR1000200. They are of the STBU1000200. The STBU is the old Backup Plus, the STDR is the new and bad one.(The Expansion is STBX) This external HDD does not follow the SATA standard and does not use a SATA connector internally. This is no longer a USM drive and you can no longer use the Seagate USM Thunderbolt adapter and the Seagate USM Firewire adapter. Internally this is no longer a normal SATA 2.5" drive. The USB adapter is integrated into the board of the HDD. If you take it out you can no longer put this inside a laptop or in a caddy because there is no SATA connector. BUT this is not a native USB drive(no speed advantage), it still uses a USB-SATA bridge but it is integrated on the board of the HDD. This is just a cost cutting measure that results in nonstandard products. It is a stupid trend started by Western Digital(all of their current external portable drives do NOT follow the SATA standard). Buy the old USM compatible Seagate Backup Plus (STBU1000200) or the Seagate Expansion (STBX1000200) instead.
1|MAC USERS BEWARE! This drive is NOT compatible with MACs as advertised, you will spend literally hours trying to set it up and unless you download a couple of other pieces of software, write emails, go on to forums, you won't get it to work. At least I didn't. I sent the first one back thinking it was faulty, but the second had the same issue, it won't set up on a Mac, it doesn't let you format, it doesn't let you write, or do anything else. The "Set up" .dmg is a link to their registration page! after which there are no instructions for set up. Customer service does get back to you, but with no answers to your questions whatsoever, total waste of time. I could go on, AVOID AVOID AVOID.
4|Bought as a gift and well received. Colour is a pleasant change from the usual black.
5|super fast, super slim, super portable. highly recommend it for every day use.
5|Very svelte and almost the same colour as its matching MacBook Pro. Good value too.
5|Super Hard Drive, reliable, discreet and silent - couldn't wish for anything better
5|Great product. Huge amount of memory and easy to negotiate. Smaller than I expected
5|We have been delighted with seagate products, this ones a gift, very prompt service
5|Just what i was looking for, small and compact, and no power needed like older one.
4|It's a nice slim unit, which works well and have had no problems with it so far...
5|Really pleased with hard drive which i am currently using as a back up drive also
5|Great price and a great product! I will ALWAYS buy Seagate for my storage needs!!
5|Bought this last September, no complaints at all, very quiet, fast and reliable.
1|Ownership review: after 3 months of purchase. I am reasonably technical and know my way around. I have even contemplated setting up an NAS using this hard drive but the following has dissuaded me from using this drive for anything. Absolutely unreliable. I formatted the hard drive on ExFAT file system to be able to use on Windows and Mac. However, literally half the files have just suddenly disappeared. There is no way to recover this, there was years, even decades of photographs, files, etc. on there that I have absolutely no way of getting back. Do yourself a favour and sign up for a Cloud storage plan.
5|Neat, good looking, not too expensive and functional. What more could you ask?
4|This drive looks like any other 2.5 inch drive, and functions just as you'd expect. Let's look at the list of things we want in such a drive: 1. speed : it's as fast as my WD and Toshiba portable drives, so no complaints there. It's basically only limited by the speed of your USB cable. 2. power/compatibility : powers off a USB connector (a full power one, not data-only) and works with my Samsung TV, PC, netbook and everything else I've tried. 3. noise : silent in anything other than a noiseless environment 4. backup : software works as designed, although I won't be using it as I have a general backup system. Ticks all the boxes, no problems, and as good as any other 2.5" portable drive. Would buy a second one if needed.
5|Excellent does what it says, easy to set up, used on both systems now. Thanks
5|The seagate flash drive did meet my expectations. I would highly recommend it!
5|This is a marvellous product. Very slimline, and easily portable and durable.
5|Very stylish device and does the job required of it silently and efficiently.
5|I'm amazed at the size of this Seagate external hard drive. My first external drive, bought about 5 or 6 years ago was the size of a hardback book and heavier than "War and Peace". This blue beauty is tiny and as light as a feather in comparison. It works with USB 3 but I've only got USB 2 on my creaky old PC but transfer times were lightening fast. 1TB is enough to hold all of the data I needed to back up - including a ton of music files, video and all my documents. I would definitely recommend this drive - for looks, portability, ease of use and price.
5|Very good product. Sleek design and amazing performance. Worth every penny!!
5|Solid and compact but a little complex when setting for both Windows and Mac
5|Very slim and beautiful product. Hope to get one more for additional backup.
5|Very good product. Does exactly what it says on the tin. Highly recommended
5|Very slim and quite. Looks great. Can't go wrong for only £35. Offer price!
5|Great drive when my Mac can actually see it. Works fine on all Windows PCs.
5|Does exactly as it claims - excellent piece of kit and very easy to set up.
5|Got it as advertised. Very handy and I am happy with the performance so far
5|Excellent portable hard drive does what it says on tin what more can i say
1|So here's my experience: I buy the Seagate Slim - looks great, 1TB I use around 70% of the capacity to save a backup of our family photos When I'm almost at the end of the backup it stops working, just stops, dead, mid-transfer I get onto the support pages sand some forums and described the "flashing light, drive not recognized" symptoms I learn that this £70 drive is pretty much dead and beyond recovery I can send it back to somewhere / wherever packed with photos of my kids (no thanks) Seagate - if it doesn't work, don't sell it - people are relying on this stuff- it's a backup!! Back to WD then....
5|Very happy with this product. Loads up relatively quickly and isn't loud.
5|Very pleased with article,and the speed of delivery. Thank you. Mayfair
4|Looks good and is a great product but wish it came with instructions....
5|Excellent product. Easy to use and does exactly what it says on the tin.
4|Nice and slim but took a couple of goes before it worked but fine now.
5|Worked almost out of the box. Just as needed. Very neat; very portable.
4|ONLY THE REGRET IS I CAN GET IT FOR BETTER PRICE IF I WAIR FOR SOMEDAYS
5|Brilliant item. Set it to back up every week and it is performing well.
5|Spot on product, works well on my Samsung Tv playing movies recommended
5|Ordered this for my brother he says it works fine and is happy with it.
5|As expected
5|These drives are great, good capacity, portable and reasonably priced.
5|Excellent 'Plug and Play' storage. Works well with my MacBook Air
5|Hard looks slim and nice easy to use plus a good band.. Am very happy
5|Great size storage at a great price, from a top name, works perfectly
5|Excellent thank you very much Massive space in pocket size hard drive
5|Exactly what I wanted, I've only had it a month, but great so far !!'
5|Did what it's meant to. Came when it was supposed to. No complaints.
5|I've been using this for about a year and can honestly recommend it.
5|Very happy with both the product and service, definitely recommends.
5|Excellent product. Small, but very capable. Ideal for the briefcase.
5|Works very well as an iMac TimeMachine drive - quite amazingly small
5|A very useful item for computer backup or archiving, simple to use.
5|Tiny petite drive, as wanted arrived quickly, good value for money.
5|This was bought for a friend. Very pleased with it. Worth buying.
5|More than expected just the way i wanted Slim portable loved it....
5|I use it to store my virtual machines. It does the job flawlessly.
5|Excellent product, good price. Slim, light in weight, recommended!
5|excellent product at a very good price - quick delivery from China
5|It's pretty handy and it's really useful I honestly recommend it.
5|Fabulous size, ideal to use while travelling. No problems at all.
5|Easy to set up and use with loads of space to store all my photos
5|Received on time, purchased this item previously, would recommend
5|Great unit; seems reliable and easy to use. Small sleek and quiet
5|Slim, fast, great value... does exactly what it says on the tin!
5|It is great. I can't believe how small these things are getting.
5|Had several of thee and they are very reliable. Would recommend.
5|perfect working, quiet, low power consumption. really satisfied.
5|Excellent product, super slim, easy to use and very good design.
5|Great little drive, easy to set up, Would recommend AAAAAA++++++
5|A really small but great sized amount of storage, very neat....
5|this be scary to do put in ps4 tbh as u dont want to mess it up
4|I have another Seagate hard drive, but this one is much smaller and looks good. To be honest, I just drag and drop files because I am a little bit of a Luddite - I don't use the software that comes with this device to help you manage things. It can be set to automatically update user-generated content but I couldn't do this with Blogger so I was a little disappointed. But I think this is great because it is so portable and stores a lot.
5|I got this for backing up my music, photos, documents, and storing films on so they wouldnt slow down my computer. I plugged it into my laptop last night, transferred everything easily, and there's still tones of space left. Love it. Exactly what I needed. I have 1000s of photos and music, and a good few films and it's only taken a tiny percentage of space. I'll be filling this up fir a while. Worth it's weight in gold.
4|Gift used for college work, easy to install and light to carry
5|Bought as a present and hopefully will come up to expectations
5|I'm impressed with the hard-drive. It's suitable for my needs.
5|Excellent speedy delivery, and just what I wanted. Many thanks
1|Bought this on 28th January 2015 and backed up my complete pc. Checked it today and pc wouldn't recognise the drive. Had to format it loosing my backup plus the programme installed in it to backup in the first place plus about 40 albums of music plus photos which I'm not pleased about at all! You would be better just using any old hard drive instead of this rubbish! Don't buy it is my opinion! Sending it back ASAP for refund!
1|It is a complete useless external hard drive. I accidentally flip the cable when plugged in, that was the end of the hard drive. I rang the manufacturer, I was told that it will cost me £450.00 to retrieve my data on the hard drive. I bought the drive itself for over £50.00. To shock me further the guy that was speaking to me on the phone cut the phone off. Please I will never recommend this product for anyone.
4|Does what it says on the tin, nice and slim and easy to use.
5|promptly delivered and exactly what I needed at a good price
5|Fantastic product easy to set up and use no problems so far
5|Great product, works quietly, smoothly and quickly - thanks
5|Very slim and so far, working perfectly between Mac and PC.
5|Very good. Thank you very much! Fully recommended seller!
5|very light and slim no problem to carry around if i need to
5|Works perfectly between Mac and pc. Exactly what I wanted.
5|Great product - worked straight out of the box on my iMac.
5|Works fine, stripped it open, then put it back together :)
4|Excellent compact external hard drive good value for money
4|Only had the device less than a month so far so good!! :)
5|Excellent back up.Still using it after 2 others are full!
5|Excellent service, quick delivery, nice unit - recommend!
5|Great product, pleasure to do buisiness with thanx Brian.
5|Small compact and pretty quick. Good value for the money
4|Not used it enough to comment properly; seems ok so far.
5|Excellent! Arrived promptly, was easy to set up and use.
5|Exactly what it says 'on the tin', sleek, quick, elegant
5|Really fast. Really light. Easy to use. Arrived on time.
1|I've had this product for around six months for holding films & music etc and BACKUP for my netbook. Guess what! It died yesterday for no apparent reason. Now refuses to connect & have lost loads of stuff but nothing vital. Will take note of other posts about extra backup and will not be buying another C-grade, sorry - Seagate
5|Excellent for all the memory I need brilliant thank you
5|Very nice and quick delivery (1 day) and good quality!
5|Was a last minute Xmas gift and arrived on time safely
2|Did not work for me and I had to return it for refund.
5|Very neat and tidy. Arrived on time and well packaged.
4|This little thing is so slim and nice very good indeed
1|The photo showing the drive 'standing up' on its shorter edge is misleading. Some Seagate drives do stand up that way, but not this one. It has a much bigger footprint - takes up a lot more space. More importantly, this drive is incompatibe with file writing software, which means its ok as a backup storage drive if you simply want to copy files on to it and nothing else, but it won't allow software such as DVD Shrink to write files to it and if you create the files using another drive and then copy them over, some software and some other devices (e.g. DVD Player, TV) will not be able to read them. Be warned... most external Seagate drives have the same problems. There is one satisfactory Seagate external drive that I can vouch for: it's branded Seagate 2TB GoFlex Desk - comes in a blue and black retail box with an (accurate) illustration of the drive working in the 'standing up' position. But the Seagate 'BackUp Plus' range of drives and the Seagate 'Expansion' range of drives all have the same problems. Good luck finding a Seagate 'GoFlex Desk' by the way. Nobody seems to have them in stock. In case you're wondering what the crucial difference might be that makes the GoFlex so satisfactory and all Seagate's other drives so very UNsatisfactory... I don't know. And Seagate tech support - which is not the best - either can't say or won't say or they don't know. After trying three Seagate drives (one 3TB, two 2TB) recently and getting nowhere, I've given up and bought a 2TB from Western Digital instead. (WD 'Elements'). Immediately clear to see that it's a much better build quality and, yes, it works perfectly in all respectas - and does it straight out of the box. Here it is: http://amzn.to/1s7VnmZ
5|Excellent piece of equipment. Easy to set up and use.
5|Bought as an emergency backup, copied files quickly.
5|Exactly what it says, boyfriend is very happy with it
4|Great hard drive, however the USB lead is too short.
5|extremely well made product. Easy to use, no issues
5|Works great!! No problems, and super quick delivery
5|Great disk, fast and absolutely working as expected
5|Great item fast delivery best price on the internet
5|A great little piece of kit, looks really good too!
5|Perfect for mums as an unobtrusive back up solution
5|Lovely slim line drive very quiet & vibration free.
5|very small and fast - lovely finish and colour too.
5|Very good hard drive. Does what it says on the box.
5|Nice slim external hard drive, with a great capacity for storage for it's price. Not sure I need the built in facebook and social media backup programme it is packaged with, but it works fine as a standard external drive. Fits easily into a shirt pocket to carry all your important files with you.
4|Brilliant hard drive perfect to go on ship with me
5|Works fine, like the design and easy to transport.
5|Very pleased with device and very prompt delivery.
5|Great hard drive best one out there for the price
5|Works with mac just need to install it correctly.
5|delivered quickly and backed up disk effortlessly
5|Fantastic, great quality, brilliant price, cheers
5|Great product good quality, delivered as promised
5|Just what I needed and plenty of space for files
5|A Christmas gift for my husband, he is thrilled!
5|Great drive. Great price. Buy it. Buy it. Buy it
5|Delivered very quickly and product does the job.
5|Great little drive. Worked straight from the box
5|Noce storage. Sleek design. Good functionality.
5|good and easy to carry and no issues till now.
5|Very small physically Works out of the box
4|Great Portable Hard Drive easy to format & use.
5|Excellent value for money. Top quality product!
5|I use this 1TB drive more as a mobile media centre (plugging it in to various devices wherever I go) than as a back-up drive. However, considering the it has half the capacity of my 2TB desktop, I could easilu use it as a backup. Luckily I have a WD 4TB drive for that... so much space!!! The Seagate is very slim, small and pocketable. It runs using a non-standard usb cable so make sure you look after that cable - which could have been longer, it's only about 6 inches long... - but doesn't require any external power on most modern devices. I can easily run it off my PS3 or bluray player. However, I had high hopes that it would work with my Raspberry Pi, but I think the power demnands are simply too high as it just blinked at me and did nothing. There is in-built software to enable you to set-up regular back-ups, which is very handy if that's what you want to use it for. Personally, it's my very own almost-bottomless media device. I just wish my main PC had USB 3.0 ports, so I could make the most of the increased speeds. Having said that, the write and read speeds are very good over USB 2.0 - a 1080p movie will start on my bluray player within 20 secs of hitting play. Not bad at all. Seagate are a well-known brand and recognised for their quality. The fact that my old Seagate drive failed cos the USB input collapsed inside is prob my own fault for mistreating it (I was always dropping the damn slippery thing). This drive has a pleasing matte finish, simple LED to let you know its working, and is silent in operation. Simply, it's excellent!
5|Well pleased ,given me more space on computer.
5|Excellent eHDD. Speeds exceeding 125mbs write.
5|Excellent product delivered on time as stated.
5|This looks smart and does what is says it will
5|5 Stars. Price, time of delivery, recommended.
4|Neat, easy to use. Arrived in good time.
5|Very pleased with the service and the product
5|A surprisingly small fast high capacity drive
5|Arrived fast. Very happy, just what I wanted.
5|Excellent item. Serves my purpose very well.
5|good product decent write speed. happy buyer
5|Very small & light & does the job perfectly.
5|received it on time and it works as expected
5|Easy to set up and working very efficiiently
5|Very useful. Works with my Mac effectively..
5|bought for my son who is delighted with it.
5|Surprisingly small and light. Very pleased.
1|This product is awful plug and play my @£*%
5|High quality build, slim design. Very good!
5|Brilliant piece of kit. Stylish and robust.
5|Physically small, fast and a delight to use
5|Neat, useful present and delivered on time
5|Nice and slim, easy to use. Classy colour.
5|Compact HDD for the size of storage of 4TB
5|Simple to use, good value, prompt service.
5|Great stores all my music and photos films
4|Great Products and delivered very quickly.
5|Still have to set it up, but all seems ok!
5|does exactly as it says on the description
5|bought for present. ideal for their needs
5|Timely arrival and as described thank you
5|Very good backup disk. Does the job well.
5|Good choice for backup portable solution.
5|Excellent bit of kit. Highly recommended.
3|Great back up had to format before using
5|high quality, fast shipping, i like it:)
4|My life is on this so I hope it is okay
5|Excellent service and product. Many thx
5|A good value product quickly delivered.
5|10/10
5|great
5|Firstly let me say, i didn't buy this from amazon as I had vouchers for argos i got it there! I now have two of these guys (one grey one blue) the grey one which i have had for almost a year now, which I use for time machine backups. really works well with this no problems so far. I like the little light that lights up on the top left through an etch in the metal cover. one thing I don't like with macs is they don't show disk activity without a download. This is a nice touch I bought the second one because I was looking for a 2gb internal laptop drive, (Do this at your own risk) this item includes the samsung spinpoint M9T, I have seen many youtube videos that show people opening this device, they seem to have had some trouble getting this open using credit cards picks etc, I seem to have been lucky in that i got the metal cover straight off using only my fingernails first time. (i don't really have much in the way of fingernails btw) its then just a case of gently easing the drive out of the plastic bottom, with a screwdriver and then taking off the metallic foil and gently coaxing off the usb3 adaptor, then its a case of putting in the drive to whichever computer as normal. This saves a good deal of money. The drive has the standard sata connectors and the usb 3 adaptor is not soldered to the drive. Before I dismantled the drive i first ran blackmagic disk speed test, This drive runs about 120mbs per second read and write on usb3 so pretty much will not be any faster using usb 2 or 3. I will when I put the disk into my macbook test to see if there is any difference in speed with the drive as a secondary drive in the pc and then update this post. The disk comes formatted as ntfs which can be read by both mac and pc, It comes with backup software (on the drive itself) which allows backup of normal content, social media, and cloud based content. ( personally i stopped using it as its not really useful on mac due to time machine) but it is a simple and quick install. Contents The drive universal Usb 3 cable ( makes it easy to get another one if one breaks) instructions. Pros slim drive (9mm drive) case is attractive you really get 2TB space ( really impressed this is actually 2TB formatted under NTFS most drives lie about the physical space and you end up with a lot less) Good price much cheaper than the samsung M9T on its on. usb 2 and 3 Reliable Portable Cons, Not really the fastest drive (good for backups though) usb 2 and 3 obtain same speed as drive cannot reach usb2 or 3 speeds All in all a great drive. go get one
4|With music, films and books being delivered digitally more often, hard drive manufacturers must be rubbing their hands with glee. I have several external portable drives that I use for backing up my Windows PC, Mac laptop, photos and music but most are USB 2.0 so I've been adding some faster USB 3.0 drives lately. The Seagate drives are small and lightweight and have decent capacities. Backing up my photo library I was able to get around 40MB per second when copying from my NAS server over a gigabit ethernet connection to my PC and then USB 3.0 to the Seagate drive. That's not too bad at all. It seems with any external drive people's experience will vary, however I've not had any problems with any of mine. It's worth remembering though that the internal mechanism is fairly fragile so bouncing around in a rucksack is not a great idea, nor bringing it from the cold into a warm environment. If doing the latter allow it to acclimatise before attempting to use it.
5|Good product just perfect Use it daily
5|Absolutely perfect! Thank you so much.
4|Very compact and ideal for backing up.
5|Very good does what it say's excellent
5|An essential backup for the hard drive
5|I've got several Seagate drives but most are mains powered and have been excellent over the years with no issues so I thought I'd try one of the smaller portable ones. Set up was a doddle, I connected the short usb cord to my PC and it was recognised straight away and I was transferring files across in minutes. 3 files 2GB transferred in about a minute, it will no doubt slow as it fills but as I will be mostly using this to move content around between drives at first that won't be a major issue. I'm not likely to be using the Facebook friendly options but it is a nice addition that I'm sure my more social media orientated friends would enjoy. It looks neat and unobtrusive just sat on top of my PC, the short usb cable may not be ideal for everyone but it suits my set up perfectly. It's early days obviously but I'd have no issue in recommending it based on what I have managed to do with it to date.
5|For MACs, works straight out the box.
5|Just works, both with Windows and Mac, but do start with partitioning and formatting this drive using your Mac. There are several online guides e.g. http://www.macworld.com/article/1159150/storage-drives/partitionharddrive.html#slide1 Both partitions are now accessible on my Mac and the Windows formatted partition is usable on windows machines.
5|Excellent item and service thank you
5|Great item and fast postage thank you
5|Excellent value. Working really well.
4|Good delivery and product works well.
5|Excellent Product with fast delivery
4|gonna use this for upgrading ps4 HDD Update made back up of all game saves , the warmedup the seagate casing with blowdryer and opened casing removed connections to the hdd carefully and removed hdd out of Ps4 placed in the Seagate(samsung) 2Tb drive and reinstalled latest Ps4 firmware and that was the easy part.(took about 40 minutes) After that we had to download all games from library again wich took the rest of the day. Working perfect now with Ps4 great for a cheap storage upgrade on Ps4. Placed old ps4 hdd into the seagate casing with connections working perfect as an backup drive.
5|Excellent hard disk with high speed!
5|Very compact and fast data transfer!
5|Does everything that I need it to do
5|Delightful portable 500gb hard drive
5|Really nice product, slim and light.
5|Prefect always buy these hard drives
5|Finally, a USB 3.0 device that I can plug into the blue sockets that have been taunting me since I upgraded my PC. Also, finally a replacement for the mains powered WD Elements drive that has cluttered my desk with its obscene bulk for years. Everything I own has been miniaturised, so why not my external storage? Good: -This is a tasteful looking device that probably won't look too out of place on any desk or beside any laptop. The brushed silver top and chamfered edges certainly follows the current fashion for understated design, though because of this it feels a little safe (I miss colours other than chrome and black). Either way, it looks nice and seems well constructed. -It's fast for USB powered drive. I was able to transfer 50gb of files in around 25 minutes, with an average speed of about 32mbps. -There's some bundled software for backing up pictures and so on from Flickr, Facebook, etc. I haven't tried this yet, but I'm sure it'll be useful, given how much of hassle downloading pictures from social networking sites by hand can be. Mediocre: -500GB isn't a whole lot these days, though it's certainly far greater than the capacity of most phones and tablets. With a physical size so small, I can forgive it for not having the biggest capacity. Bad: -Nothing, really.
5|Really great item! it works great !
5|Easy to fit. Working fine with PS4.
5|Excellent, fast delivery. Thank you
5|Does what is says. prompt Delivery.
5|easy to use between mac and windows
5|Good delivery, product as described
4|very good product !! I liked it !!!
5|Very fast, portable and looks good!
1|Failed after only 7 weeks. Used as my Time Machine backup on my iMac but failed today and going back to Seagate. Will not rely on the replacement when it comes. Beware !
2|Neat but with a very short USB cable, OK for laptop but inconvenient for use with a PC which is what I wanted it for. Mine soon became defective and had to be returned
4|Looks great and so far works well.
5|Great product, just what I wanted.
5|Still using it. No problem so far.
5|Excellent product at a great price
5|plenty of room for my photo;s ect.
5|So far so good, fast and reliable.
5|Good unit and fast delivery thanks
5|Very pleased with this hard drive
5|Perfect for a ps4 hard drive swap
5|Great! Fast & Minimum dimensions.
5|Fantastic Ps4 upgrade (see utube)
5|Just as described and works well
5|Exactly as described, good item.
4|Too early to say. So far so good
5|Smart simple device, looks great
5|love this product.great price .
5|Good little hard disk and quick
5|Excellent! Highly recommended.
5|Best Portable HD you could own.
5|More trustworthy than any cloud
5|Does what it said it would do.
5|Very good product and service.
5|Good seller, happy customer !!
5|Excellent product and service.
5|With instructions, easy to use
5|Great delivery and great item.
5|fits the PS4 and works great !
1|Disappointed. Said it was for PC and Mac but neglected to mention in the description that not all features are compatible with Mac. I could not even drag and drop files onto this hard drive, and was therefore useless for the purpose I bought it for. It was repackaged and returned the very next day!
5|Nice service, works very well
5|Excellent and prompt delivery
5|This is an excellent product.
5|very good external hard drive
4|Does what it says it will do.
5|Excellent product and service
5|This really is a slimline drive - I have used plenty of portable drives so know how big they usually are and this is definitely one of the thinnest I have seen. Full USB 3.0 compatibility so if your system has a 3.0 port it will transfer data significantly faster, although I plugged it into a USB 2.0 port as well and it was as quick as I have personally experienced so I was happy. Great looking drive that as with all portable drives of this size are bus powered so an excellent travel back up companion.
5|great item and fast delivery
5|Good product. Good delivery.
5|Looks smart. Good little HD.
5|Very pleased with this drive
5|Can't go wrong with seagate!
4|so far so good. easy to use
5|excellent hard drive thanks
5|Great little back up device
5|Very good it's 1tb and tiny
5|Great!!! I am very pleased.
5|Very good- had no problems
5|Superb and so easy to use.
5|Arri9ved early works great
5|Great drive and good price
4|Cant go wrong with Seagate
5|Great drive, great value..
5|small, slim and very quick
5|Easy to use. Large memory,
5|excellent slimline and compact bit of kit perfect for my macbook pro and my location photography @ [...]
5|Great. Came early. Thanks
5|my favorite external disk
5|Nice reliable bit of kit!
3|Fast Delivery, Good Price
5|Very good would recommend
5|Boys were happy with them
5|Received as described. ok
5|Happy with the purchase.
5|As discribed, great item
5|Does exactly as required
5|brilliant for my backups
5|Great Price - Great Size
5|slick and adequate drive
5|Been good since I got it
5|Absolutely perfect !!!!!
4|very good, and so small!
5|Excellent, A joy to use
5|works its small hooorah
4|useful item for backups
5|Compact USB 3.0 dfevice
5|The Product is Great !!
4|Does the job admirably.
5|great machine i love it
5|Once you get past the annoying vacuum packaging you are presented with a very neat little product. Using brushed metal this external hard drive is exactly as described. Slim and compact. And it seems very sturdy as well. It comes with a wire to attach to your computer. Once plugged in, it shows to already have installation options for both the Mac and Windows. the installation is quick, It took a awhile to transfer all my date to it. But I was transferring a good 300gb worth so this is to be expected. Overall I am very impressed with this product. It is very easy to carry around due to its slim nature and can carry a fair amount. and it seems sturdy enough to take a good number of bumps.
5|kept the client happy.
5|Work great, it's fast.
5|Works well-easy to use
5|works perfect and fast
5|Works with mac and pc
5|Definitely recommend.
5|I was looking for a portable hard drive to transfer music, films and videos and thought this would be ideal. It seemed a bit dearer than similar gb portable hard drives but I soon realised it worth every penny . Firstly it is mega slim, lightweight and tiny for carrying around . Next the 3.0 USB means it transfers even large files very , very quickly and takes the tedium out of transferring files . I also found it totally compatible with all different computers and window program's including windows 8 which usually never works with anything . Personally I think it's great and worth paying that bit extra if you transfer a lot of files and fantastic for travelling
5|I have been critical of Seagate products before, but this one is fantastic. It is roughly the same size as my WD My Passport 1TB Portable Hard Drive - Redbut half the thickness. It also has a very good looking chrome/silver finish. It looks like an elegant cigarette holder or something of the sort. You could carry this in the pocket of your suit jacket and it would not show. Functionality wise it is plug-and-play (tried it on Win7) within seconds. I do not use any of the supplied software, just use it for manually copying data. The only issue is its capacity (500GB), but I would expect the 1TB version to come around soon.
5|This was just perfect for our newly arrived late 2013 iMac as a back up drive and to I use as occasional means to physically transport large quantities of files to other computers. Recognised immediately by the iMac, we have not used the bundled software as the Mac's standard back up software works just fine. Very compact and with USB 3.0 for speedy file transfer, we haven't bothered with buying the adapters for Thinderbolt etc. as the USB 3.0 is fast enough for us. We also tested it on a late 2013 Windows 8.1 laptop and again it worked faultlessly. No obvious downsides for us. Easy to recommend.
4|good value for money
5|Absolutely loved it!
5|Fast, Stylish, Pert.
4|I don't know why but this hard drive would not work with my iMac initially. No matter what I did it would not transfer the files across. So not as simple as most 'plug and play' hard drives as I had to get my techy mate to sort it out. Now it's sorted I can't complain, it seems quick at transferring files and I haven't had any other problems with it. Seagate is also generally quite a well known and reliable make for backup storage. It's attractive to look at while also being compact. Perfect for portable storage, unlike some of the chunkier drives which you wouldn't want to lug around on a day to day basis.
4|Smart looking hard drive, from Seagate. Heaps of space to store stuff. It comes preloaded with the Seagate dashboard software which when loaded allows you to set the drive up to automatically backup your computer. The first time you do this it takes a while, however once done is quite discrete. There is not much to show the disc is active apart from a very small light on the top of the drive, there are no flashing LEDs or colour changes to say when its active or not. You can also just plug in and drag and drop as with any other Hard drive overall I am very happy with this drive which is functional and easy to use.
1|Worked great while it lasted! Purchased 29 Aug 14 - died 27 Dec 14!! Have requested a refund or replacement off Amazon. It just ceased to be recognised by any computer or TV monitor I attached it to. I await a reply from Amazon.
5|Nice item. Out of the box plug into usb on computer and forget it
5|Item arrived in quite a small compact package. It came complete with USB cable. It was very easy to set up on my PC. I already have an external Western Digital HDD where I store all my stuff and thought the Seagate drive would be ideal as a second backup source. It took rather a while to copy over all the stuff to this drive, but it is now easy to maintain the backup from my original HDD. This Seagate drive is very compact and neat, hardly taking up any room at all as it is no bigger than some mobile phones. All in all, I would highly recommend this portable HDD, especially at this price.
4|good, but expensive
3|So far, so good :-)
5|excellent and light
5|Perfect and stylish
5|Extra backup, great
5|great item must buy
5|There is very little one can say about the wonderful device except that it is practically perfect in every way. Packaged in an ecologically sound way in a small, robust box, the packaging opens up with no problems revealing the drive snug in its container. It comes with a USB cable and there is (of course) no need for any other connections, wires or power which it draws over USB. Plugging the drive to my Vaio Windows 7 notebook everything connected and was detected straight away with no issues, This device just worked, and perfectly. Very highly recommended.
5|really easy to use
5|Does what it says!
5|Very slim and fast
5|Very good product.
4|As described good
5|excellent product
5|Seagate what else
5|Nice drive Thanks
5|Excellent product
5|Great east to use
5|Worth every penny
5|I own other Seagate drives and have found that Seagate offers good, reliable storage. Packing 500gb of storage in a very slim, sophisticated shell, this little beauty doesn't disappoint. The drive is very slim and extremely light so it is hard to believe that you are holding 500gb of storage in your hand. I still have my first portable drive which is 120gb and it is at least 4 times as chunky as this. My first 500gb external hard drive still sits on my desk and it looks like a brick compared to this little specimen of minimalist perfection. Finished in a brushed metal effect, it looks lovely and should withstand the occasional scratch or scuff that a shiny, polished finish would show too easily. It also means that it won't show all those nasty finger smudges that would inevitably show up on a polished surface. Complete with USB 3.0 connectivity out of the box, it will download and backup your data quickly and effortlessly and of course it is backwards compatible. The Seagate Slim also utilises the Seagate Dashboard, which although I initially thought it was a bit superfluous as I managed just as well dragging and dropping to transfer files, does have the added benefit of a protect function which can be set to automatically backup data. Backup can also be linked to social networking - a feature of modern tech which seems to be taking over our lives and the share feature allows for uploading multiple files easily and quickly. Another bonus for those who may move between different platforms is that the Seagate Slim can be used interchangeably between Mac and PC without the need to reformat. This feature does not apply to me but is a nice addition and shows Seagate is thinking about its customer base and trying to make life as easy for consumers as possible. I am very pleased with my Seagate Slim and will make good use of its portable 500gb. My poor 120gb drive was full long ago and I was in dire need of a replacement. I am obsessive about backing up and saving multiple copies of my data and this little beauty should make that part of my life a lot easier.
5|worked perfectly
5|Great bit of kit
5|Thanks,i love it
5|Would deal again
5|Look nice. Slim.
5|Works perfectly!
5|So far so good!!
5|absolutely great
5|Excellent gadget
5|Very good drive
4|Works just fine
5|So far so good.
5|A great product
5|Works perfectly
4|Neat and petite
5|Works with PS4.
1|I ordered one of these for storage of photos as my Macbook Pro has quite a small SSD. Performance was quick while it worked, but after 2 months it stopped working and the LED light just flashes. This had been looked after well, never dropped etc. The seagate support advises turning your computer off and on again... and disconnecting and reconnecting and states that if those do not work, then the drive is almost certainly broken. Great.
1|I hope Uberlizard is right, because the same thing seems to have just happened to me. My Mac (runnung OSX.6.8) is claiming it cannot read the disc, which had only been disconnected for five minutes, and demanding I reformat it - which means losing all the Mac and possibly also the PC material on it. The trouble with trust in anything or anybody is that it only gets one chance. Seagate should realise this. It has certainly lost mine.
1|Bought for use with for Mac Book Pro. Instructions based on Microsoft and are poor for Apple OS - link to website shows installation instructions for Windows software only. Couldn't get software to load and was unable to transfer data. After hours of effort (including visit to Apple store !) gave up and returned - best thing in whole experience was Amazon Customer Service ! Wouldn't recommend as it does do what it says on the tin.
1|Does this Hard Drive seem too good to be true? Compact, fast and inexpensive. That's right - it IS too good to be true. With Hard Drives, failure is not an option, they are by their nature designed to store things that are important. I purchased this item - not here on Amazon but from PC World, four weeks later had the contents of an old hard drive saved to it. So far so good. Two weeks after that, the Hard Drive, seriously doing nothing more arduous than sitting on my desk plugged into my computer, completely failed, never to return. I have wasted a lot more of my time trying to correspond with Seagate, receiving only demands for further information unhelpful, nonsensical advice which indicated clearly that they had not even properly read what i had sent them, and then all-too-eager offers of Data Recovery service. And there's the giveaway folks. These Hard Drives are cheap because they are poor quality, expected to fail, so that in panic and desperation at the loss of your precious data, you will hand over hundreds of pounds for data recovery. THIS is Seagate's true business model. Just look online at their trouble-shooting pages and notice how easily and quickly you find yourself being encouraged to avail yourself of Data Recovery - they even offer a little discount! Aren't they generous. STAY AWAY FROM THIS COMPANY they are crooks!
5|100% satisfait
4|dainty storage
5|100% satisfied
5|Great product!
5|so far so good
5|Great product!
5|Gift was liked
5|Great product
5|Great product
5|slim and dark
5|I'm satisfied
5|Fast and easy
4|The product is very good. It satisfies my need. I could have given five stars if it would have mean the transfer speed which is described in the features. One Good feature is you can make wireless backup but tue worst thing is you wil have to purchase after one year! It is compact in size and very light in weight. You may go for it!
5|As described
5|Nice Product
5|Good product
5|As described
5|Does the job
5|all hussfree
4|Does the job
5|Good product
5|Great drive
4|Good enough
4|Works well.
5|Did the job
4|Love it ?.
1|Unlike most reviewers I have had no luck with this product at all. My second one has stopped working, having lasted 4 weeks. The first one lasted two weeks. Both times there has been no warning as I am using it one minute and the next it is not registering on my laptop. I won't be buying another!
5|Lifesaver!
5|good stuff
4|worked perfectly until i changed computer when it actually failed. But perfect for use for documents and movies around the world. To be fair this hard drive hadn't had an easy life i'd dropped it more than enough times to break it but it mainly survived
5|Works straight out of the box. Easy to Install and works on Mac and Windows systems. We purchased this for our client since we are a tech support company that provides product recommendation. Our website is: www.amparo.co.uk. Highly recommended.
3|As I have Mac OS and windows 8.1 pro on my iMac I bought this thinking that it would back up both without having to put the windows files in the document folder of the iMac so in other words I can't get it to back up both automatically
5|No poblem
5|Excellent
5|Wonderful
5|very nice
5|Excellent
5|Brilliant
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
3|Good item
5|Excellent
5|Excellent
4|Good Item
5|Very good
5|very good
1|When I bought this, I formatted it to Mac OS Extended (Journaled) to allow me to create new folders and copy in new files. Now after only 3 weeks, it's now telling me that the format is Windows NT File System (NTFS) and I can't add anything else to the hard drive. I've only used 500GB of my 2TB Hard drive, that's essentially 1.5GB. I bought this because it was supposedly compatible with OS. I didn't want to have to be downloading software to be able to add new files. What a waste of money.
4|I was very impressed at how easy to use and reliable this product is. Its slimness and lightness really is amazing. A truly mobile device. It even looks quite nice and is sturdy enough to carry around with you.
3|Bought it in the hope that I would have an external hard drive which could be shared between my PC and mac. Unfortunately I'm not techy enough to partition the drive without risking re-formatting the entire thing.
3|Nice compact little drive, very quiet whilst in operation. Only real problem is the slow transfer times for larger files, anything under 1gb is probably ok - above that I would buy a Thunderbolt drive or similar.
5|Brilliant value for money external hard drive fast and efficient and very reliable. Looks and feels god and very light for portability. I would highly recommend this product it's excellent I'm one happy buyer
5|I have had this drive for some months now and am still impressed with its quality. I am using it to store images from my photographic hobby, so do not access it every day. Would recommend this to others.
5|Awesome.
4|All good
5|as shown
5|Perfect!
5|Awesome!
5|Great Item, make sure you format it correctly if you want to write to it from Mac and PC as I do. But otherwise small portable and great for price. Incredible that 2TB fit on this device wow !!!
4|Very good for keeping all photos in one place. Couldn't link it direct with my Ipad as it said I could! So still have to download everything to laptop then transfer. still a bit of a pain!
3|It is OK but a separately powered disc would begetter for the MAC as it sometimes fails to recognise the device which I think is an issue with being powered through the USB port
4|works great in my ps4. real simply to take it out of his external case. with 2tb i have now downloaded all my ps4 digital ps4 titles. no more deleting games to add others.
5|perfect
5|Perfect
5|good HD
5|Perfect
5|Superb!
4|My old one would not work as a backup device when I got Windows 10, however this is fine and my old Seagate is now just an external storage device, so not wasted.
5|The item arrived in the time expected and it's been working very well. It's fast and until now I've had no problems at all. I'm very satisfied with the product.
5|Amazing storage fro back-up purposes is a small package at an excellent price. It gets good crits for reliability from a well known name in the business
5|Small with plenty of storage. Easy to use and made by a trusted company. Portable. Ideal for backing up, especially with it portability with a laptop.
5|Works as it should, came as expected (though did take a few weeks - which may well be in description or not, either way was worth the wait)
2|Problem with the other USB drives particularly my remote Logitech keyboard and mouse when connected. Had to use an old wired mouse to use.
5|Superb
5|great!
5|Thanks
5|5 star
5|Great.
1|I would dnothave bought had i realised the cable connection was a specialised connector fitting and not a universal USB so if the cable get lost or damaged you will not be able to use the hard drive without specialist cable replacement VERY POOR PRACTICE. Realised thesis standard with Seagate changing connectors all the time so not comfortable trusting my data to a cable
5|This is the second one I've bought, it's so small and portable. Sleek and hassle free design. What makes it better is the price!
5|I have a few of these and they all work brilliantly, All my important stuff on something you can slip into your pocket, amazing!
5|Really small drive! It is a bit shorter than an iPhone 4 and just 1 finger wider! Disk is really fast and so far I am amazed!
5|Great hard disk, got ~110 Mbps transfer rate which is sweet. Paid 5£ extra to get the blue design and it looks & feels great.
1|This item is not Thunderbolt capable as advertised. Don't buy at premium price for the features not supplied. Returning
5|A great hard drive, does what it says on the tin. And it's seagate so you can trust it. Has worked really well for me.
5|These work so well, I eventually bought a second to use as a mirror for my iMac. No hiccups, just solid performance.
4|Works as I expected, a bit difficult working on Mac and pic at the same time but it does work. Everything I needed.
5|Cool.
5|great
5|Great
4|happy
5|great
5|Great
5|Super
5|great
5|Fast, easy to use and very elegant small package. This is my third Seagate drive - 100% reliable.
5|Works perfectly with w7-w8.1. Small and enough Gb's for some movies and games while on a trip.
3|Disappointing that the software doesn't run automatically...well at least mine didn't seem to
5|You've got to buy this hard disk if you want one that is slim which can hold 2TB of you data.
5|A good little hard drive. Ideal for use with your tv or to take on holiday as photo storage
5|I was able to download all my photos onto this device and free up more space on my computer.
5|I have 3 of these and they are all still going strong after 18 months. Lovely compact unit.
5|Ideal with my Mac. Loads of storage space. Simple to get it up and running. Well pleased.
4|Good bit of kit but need more instructions for using it with Apple Time Machine and a pc
5|Great value for money, especially if you don't have lots of cloud space for backing up.
5|Just as described and being USB 3 make it respond quickly. Brilliant small footprint.
5|Good
5|Good
5|A+++
4|good
5|Good
5|good
5|nice
5|good
5|good
1|Had to return this, as the drive was locked ie "Read Only" not what I want in a back up disc.
5|It arrived promptly and works great. I am VERY satisfied with this product!!
5|Simply does exactly what you expect. Quality build and very smart looking
5|Great - it's so small and much quicker than my old USB desktop disc
4|It was a really good product,I bought two to keep my photography on
5|Works fantastic with my macbook pro, does the job and pretty fast!
5|Fantastic value for money and does what it says on the tin.
2|This was great until it just stopped working one day. Sigh.
5|Fab
5|5/5
2|only works as manual back-up on MAC -- not as described
5|Plugged it in to the USB port and it works as it should
4|Works well and is small enough to carry around easily.
5|Nice, compact backup drive and no problems so far.
5|This is really compact and seems robust. Good.
4|this is a good back up drive easy to set up
4|Very neat unit and so silent in operation.
5|Very compact, work well with Windows pc,.
5|able to store and back up loads of stuff
1|When this drive arrived it was only 1tb.
5|saving your computer can be this cheap!
5|No problems. Would recommend to anyone
5|GREAT HARD DRIVE. EXCELLENT PURCHASE.
5|easy to set up and use. Great value!
5|Great drive with no problems to-date
5|great works well with time machine
4|Great little product easy to use
5|Excellent delivery and product.
5|Excellent pocket sized drive
5|Does what it says on the tin
5|Smart and compact. Spot on.
5|quality kit, reccomend this
5|Everything fine! Excellent!
1|Not fit for purpose. No instructions, a web site which is absolutely of no help, I was asked by Seagate 7 times to give them full personal details and unit number, to no avail. I am returning this item. I have no idea whether it's working or what it's doing.
4|Does what it's supposed to
4|Choose a different colour
5|Good price and works well
5|Small but vast nice drive
5|No errors, great product
5|very fast delivery a+++
5|Good and reliable HDD
5|Would use again, great product. This is really annoying, I have genuinely said as much as I would like for this product/seller, being forced to type in more blah blah blah, is what stops people from writing product reviews. C'mon Amazon, I think you can change this pointless policy/restriction.
3|It's obviously set up for PC's, but states it should be fine for Macs. Wasn't. Wouldn't be read, and was configured by a Mac expert. Had to send it back. Didn't want to give one star, because ultimately it may just have been my drive, which was returned with Amazon ease, and was recognised by a PC OK.
5|Excellent hard drive
5|great for the price.
4|This is a fast, well designed hard drive. It's an improvement on the previous version due to slimming down the body. It nicely fits in a pocket. No problems with USB 3.0 (unlike a previous hard drive I had) - just plug it in and off you go. Good price for the size too.
1|it does not function properly. Is not recognised by some usb connectors and I have other Seagate that works with the same connectors. would not buy another Seagate product.
5|Very easy to use!
3|Good piece of kit
5|No issues at all.
4|So far, so good.
3|easy to install
1|This item failed to install correctly. The first part loaded but the second part failed to install. I am still waiting for a friend to help me sort it out as I am not the most computer liberate person.
5|Great product!
1|I purchased 2 of these and it has taken months to establish these are the cause of my problems....and it is too late to get a refund. I ask myself is Amazon a good place to shop?
5|Great product
5|very reliable
1|the instructions are useless. my pc has 500 GB and the driver is 2 TB, it said that it is full and there is no place to find out how to remove old backups or old files!!
4|good product
5|Works great
5|I like it.
5|very happy
4|Very gpopd
3|OK so far.
5|Excellent.
1|My daughter wanted this to back up her photos but we had to get a computer wiz to set it up. Which cost us money.
5|excellent
5|fantastic
4|very good
5|BRILLIANT
4|very good
4|value buy
5|Perfect
3|Item was great when it eventually arrived. Very slow delivery.
1|Absolutely disappointed!! I really needed to back up my laptop, so i ordered this blue slim external hard drive, however i later came to find out i no longer needed it as my laptop only needed new software update. So as it was a few months when i purchased it, i went to cex to sell it. To my surprise there was on 500gb available on hard drive. Both myself and the assistant in the store could blatantly see that the external drive was only 500gb even though it clearly states 1TB on the packaging and on the actual drive itself. Ive seen this scam on tv before but didn't think it would really happen. Not happy! Got tricked! Lost money! I paid for 1TB any got 500GB :(
5|goood
5|Excellent. It's tiny & it's 2TB's = WIN WIN :)
5|good
2|No clear instructions on use.
1|Very slow to back up, after running for over 24 hours I gave up.
5|Returned did not need it
3|Excellent piece of kit
3|This HDD drive has been good so far, however I wasn't able to use it out of the box with both my Macbook and Windows pc and had to reformat it in order to use it with Time Machine.
5|it is very good
2|It is not possible to open and examine the files I have backed up on this drive or open them on the drive. So believing they are there is an act of faith. I wont know, until I need them restoring to a computer, if they are really there. And if they are not it will then be too late. very disappointed.
5|neat
2|Took 3 attempts to get it delivered even though I stayed in and was certainly in on the first attempt. Amazon is usually amazing but this was dire. When it did arrive I was going through the set up and was aked to load a programme - result over virus 1500 infections - not good
3|it was a good product but was not compatible with my present back-up system so I chose to return Seagate HD and keep my present back-up product
1|It was trash
1|It doesn't work on my computer
1|Wasn't compatible
