5|I have need for backup my precious data for emergency crash to pc. Seagate completed that Pros.- very lightweight Very small Zero sound during read/write(only a very little vibration of revolving disk) You wouldn't believe it is hdd And many points yet to discover. Cons.- not found any But you can say one because it doesn't provide speed of hdd(no written anywhere). Speed.-(as i found) Usb 2.0- read- 40-50MB/s write- 22-30MB/s Usb 3.0- read- 75-85MB/s write- 50-60MB/s I will recommend it to everyone. Seagate is completely reliable brand. Warranty- 3 years+1month(as i found)
5|Product: Pros: This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm, it will easily fit into your jeans pocket without discomfort. Transfer speed - average 45 mbps to 85 mbps from the hard drive of your computer, average 30-35 mbps from another seagate external hard disc. 931 GB available space. Con: The only con is the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better. Now this one from Seagate is worth a buy it comes with mesmerizing looks,slim and yes the slimmest! light weight,small in size and can easily slip in your pocket.The power light is sleek and bright which you can turn on or off from Seagate Dashboard! The back up software is good and user friendly,you can make backup plans for your removable devices or for your entire PC(takes quite a while though) also you can backup all your social media contents from Facebook,Twitter And Flickr by just signing in and all contents starts downloading right into your hard drive! USB 2.0 gives a sustained speed of about 26 Mbps and I guess USB 3.0 will give around 85 or somewhat like that,usable space- 931 GB and this drives comes with exciting flavors mean colors :-P . The USB cable is a short one but not much of a problem and dont forget to register your product via the Seagate Dashboard software a 5/5 rating just go for it!
5|This one is my second HDD. The first one was also of SEAGATE, it was very much bulky &amp; heavy. It also required external power source. But this one is dam better than any other is this price range. Seagate had done a marvelous job in making such a masterpiece. Hats off to Seagate and to that of SNAPDEAL also for such a secure and fast delivery. Pros: 1. No external power source required. 2. Very compact and easy to use. 3. USB 3.0, this assures it's speed. 4. Awesome look, with LED at front. 5. Portable and reliable. 6. Light weight and size smaller than cell phone. Cons: Personal Opinion: Common color, I'm not satisfied with the color as it is common. Overall: I'm happy with the device and I'm glad I invested my money at right place. People should go for it without thinking of other devices(HDD). Once again I personally thank SNAPDEAL for providing us such a masterpiece.
5|This is my first hardisk which I bought and this hard disk is the best which I have ever used.This hardisk is very slim and compact and it is comparatively smaller than any other hardisk because it is backup plus slim and the transfer rate is amazing @ 50mb\s Pros:-1).slim and portable design 2).Metal finish at the top of the hardisk 3).Transfer data at an amazing rate of 50mb/s 4).Backup plus feature is great and it helps us to create backup of Facebook,twitter,android phones. Cons:-1).Data cable is very short and it should be longer 2).The PC software which is supplied with the hardisk doesn't works properly
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive is meant to simplify your data backup needs. Be it the social networks, the cloud, the mobile devices or the local drive, this new and efficient Hard Drive by Seagate helps you in storing all your data with utmost security. It comes in small size and is also very lightweight. With the interface of USB 3.0, the new Backup Plus Slim helps you in transferring your data at an incredible speed. However, it is also very well compatible with the USB 2.0 interface. It offers plug-and-play functionality on your PC and therefore, it doesn’t need an external power source. For Mac systems you will have to install the NTFS drivers but for Windows it is pre-installed. Therefore, you can easily interchange the drives between Mac and Windows, without having to do the reformatting. Furthermore, the Seagate Mobile Backup for the iOS and Android smartphone users helps in quick transfer of the data from their device to the drive or in the cloud. This portable Hard Drive by Seagate comes with 3 years Seagate India warranty. Large Storage Capacity Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive offers you a large space where you can conveniently save and store all sorts of data with complete security. With the storage capacity of 1 TB, you can store your favourite movies, images, software etc. all at one single place. It means that this portable external Hard Drive enables you in keeping all your data with you anytime and anywhere. This gives you an easy and instant access to all your data. Seagate Mobile Backup App &amp; Seagate Dashboard Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive comes along with the Seagate Mobile Backup App, which is compatible with iOS 7 or higher and with Android 2.3 or higher. The iOS and Android smartphone users just have to install this App on their phone. It will help you in quickly transferring your photographs and videos from phone to the external drive or to the cloud. The Seagate Dashboard helps you in managing your photos and videos, including those, which you have shared on the social networks like Facebook, YouTube and Flickr. 200 GB of Cloud Storage with OneDrive Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive includes 200 GB of the Cloud Storage. It enables you to store your data on the cloud with OneDrive for 2 years. It keeps your data completely protected and also enables you to have on-the-go access to all your files. Lyve App Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive comes with the Lyve App, which is compatible with Mac OS X 10.9 or higher and with Android 4.1 or higher. The Lyve App automatically recognises your Backup Plus Drive and transfers the photographs and the videos from your phone’s memory to the organised library on the Lyve mobile. Therefore, you can access all your images and videos at one single place. Portable Design Wearing a portable design, Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive slips into your pocket or your purse easily. Adding to it, weighing only 159 gms, this Hard Drive is very lightweight. It means that you can conveniently carry your hard drive everywhere you go. It gives you access to all your data anywhere and anytime – even when you are on the go.
5|Just got this product it's awesome. Pros: 1. Small 2. Light weight 3. USB 3 4. Speed 108MB/s (W) 260MB/s (R) [Tested] 5. Easy to carry 6. Nice Minimal design 7. 3Yrs Warranty Cons: 1. Not Slim 2. Heated Quickly Dont think. Just go for it.
5|Seagate Backup plus slim 1TB very slim,this hard disk keep it on your pocket easily.hard disk size very small.its data transfer rate is around 50-60 Mbps on USB 3.0.some what low data transfer rate in USB 2.0.total size of hard disk is 932 GB.It did not support on-line cloud back up.cable also 1 feet length,it is comfortable to place any where surrounding on laptop or desktop. Advantages:- very slim high data transfer rate metal body Disadvantages:- don't support online storage
5|Pros : Perfect for Protecting your data with easy flexible backups USB 3.0 plug-and-play No bulky power supply adapters Easy to share files between Operating systems warranty for 3 years Super slim size Very Attractive Design &amp; ergonomics Super fast shipping :) Cons - the product seems to get slightly heated up very soon, i dont know if this normal &amp; common with other brands - the packing could have been better
4|I am using this Seagate backup plus slim 1tb drive for 2 weeks. The drive is good enough in looks and feels. It feels compacted in hands, it's metal finish looks really nice. The writing &amp; reading speed is also good. But the cons are sometimes it's speed goes down to 1-2 mbps (I used it in USB 2.0). After a long time use it got too hot to use. Not everytime, but when it got hot, I can really feel the heat. So I have to unplug it from my pc. I dont know if I got a faulty product or not. But this is a major problem ( Though I am using it in summer in Kolkata). Transfer speed in USB 2.0 : 25-28 mbps But sometimes it goes down to 1-2 mbps even in a single movie file transfer.
5|Backup Plus Slim is pretty much a basic drive in a very small enclosure, It's pretty much as small as a 2.5-inch hard drive enclosure can be, which makes us wonder how shock-resistant it actually is. Backup Plus Slim doesn't really have any hardware features to speak of. Just plug it in and you're ready to go.1TBIf you're looking for a quick, no-fuss external drive with a dash of style, the Seagate Backup Plus Slim is a sensible choice. Whether you use it for backups, general storage or transporting data, it will serve all your needs. If you don't need Seagate's software and don't mind a bit of extra bulk, you could consider less expensive drives such as Seagate's own Expansion series.Backup Plus Slim had 931GB of available formatted space.Fast and affordable, the Seagate Backup Plus Slim is one of the best deals on the market for those who want lots of storage space on the go.Must grab this deal for price .I bought two drives one silver and one red.
4|931 GB available space. Pros: *Transfer speed - average 30 mbps to 40 mbps in USB 2.0 and average 50mbps to 120 mbps in USB 3.0. **No vibration Con: *the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better. **heating issue after long use.
5|Very nice Pros fast speed Low noise Low heating Ultra thin good looking Usb3 supported Mobile backup supported Also support wifi modem Cons Not found any at yet
5|I Need An External Hard Drive To Store My Data From Laptop To The Ext HDD Because My Laptop Was Crashing.I Had Too Many Options To Choose An HDD In This Price Range But I Choosed Seagate Backup Plus Slim Drive. Its Very Compact And Stylish,Having Metal Finish I Got Around 60-90 MBPS Data Transfer Speed. Its Very Small In Size Then Other 2.5" HDDs I Had To Transfer Around 700 GB Of Data And It Took Just 1-1.5hr For Complete Copy.Its Very Fast If Connect To A 3.0 USB Port. The Seagate Dashboard Software Preloaded On Drive Is Very Useful For Taking Backup.It Also Allows The Backup From Smartphones Too. I Just Loved This Drive.If Anybody Is Looking For 1TB Ext HDD In This Price Range Then Nothing Can Beat Seagate Backup Plus Slim Drive.
5|I got this brand new hard disk with latest manufacturer date and in well packed condition, the product is brand new and shining, it is 1 tb hdd but get only 931gb in it, its fine for those who have limited data in their computer, transfer speed of data from pc to hdd vice versa is good. I bought it after reading reviews and the product is really good, its worth the price and you get 3 year brabd warranty also, you can check warranty on seagate original website by putting serial number. Its a good and genuine product. I will recommend to buy it.
5|The 1TB Seagate is a portable hard drive that boasts an ultra-slim design, with a look that balances minimalist style and geek chic. The steel-clad drive may be basic in many respects—it's an external hard drive with a USB 3.0 connection and a decent 1TB capacity—but it packs itself into the slimmest chassis we've seen this side of a solid-state drive making it worth considering for anyone who values design and portability. Essentially, you're buying the Seagate Seven for its looks, and for some users, it will be worth the premium. It's sturdy enough to survive being taken along on your daily commute, and is spacious enough for daily backup use.
4|I have given the order on the date 14.11.2015 and later immediate i received the sms that the order will come on between 18nov to 22 nov and I really appreciate the team of snap deal they provided the material on the first date of commitment on 18 November and about the product quality is very perfect the packing everything but the product shows its 1TB it means its 1000 GB but unfortunately i get the product of 931 GB total and 930 GB empty it was included with set-up files and two other things of it . So you can go with the product its small in size and the quality is very good you can happy after getting the product but the speed is depended on the PC also otherwise you will think that its fast on any PC its not like that because on the laptop its fast depend on the configuration that i have and other way i was having the PC which not high configured so i was getting the slow transferring speed meanwhile you may proceed for the same product low price high quality .
5|In this price this is the best hard disk. 1 TB memory and 200 Gb cloud storage. Speed of data transfer is about 28 to 35 Mbps. 3 years manufacturer warranty. This is only the brand which gives you data backup. No hang while using. I am very satisfied with this product.
5|First, let me tell you, this product is amazing. I really love it. As I own a web design company, I use it to sync large size data between my two offices for daily updates. It has USB 3.0 so it's lightening fast. Only number of files will slow it down else the transfer rate is marvelous... at times going over 120Mbps. As it's not SSD, you might feel some vibration if you're holding it in your hands while using... otherwise it is completely silent. It's mildly "heavy" so carrying it in your shirt pocket might not be right but if you're carrying it in your jeans, you might completely forget it's there. My primary reason for buying this is that it's compatible with Windows, MAC and Linux. As we use all these operating systems I had to make sure that the driver should be working with all of them and it does pretty well. I hope my review helps you in making your decision.
5|Seagate Backup plus harddrive good in design(slick and slim)and also the weight of this HDD so less so this HDD can be easily transportable and also featurewise comparison as compare to other HDD this HDD is best.This HDD gives me 30mbps writespeed in USB2.0 and 45 mbps in USB 3.0 port and reading speed is upto 40 mbps so this HDD contains best features and also This HDD awarded with 2014 year best HDD.No doubt on purchase always recommanded HDD.
4|I am happy to receive such a product. It is just the one i was searching for. I would really recommend this one to a potential buyer. Pros: It is handy compact and can easily fit in your jeans pocket.Metal finish gives it a premium look.It is compatible with usb 3.0. All i wanted from one device. Cons: Transfer speed is a bit lower than the competition. Overall its a good product.MUST buy if a little less teansfer speed ain't a issue for u.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive is my second hard drive purchase and I think that Seagate has produce finest of the hard drives.It Comes with 3 year seagate warranty. Pros= Durable, Stylish Design, Easy to use, Easy to carry Cons= none Verdict= Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive is a great buy in an affordable price and the 3 year warranty from seagate makes the buyer tension free. So If you are looking for a hard drive then surely u should go for it.
5|Very handy with automatic backup system by installing its software into computer, available in harddisk itself. My computer data is safe and tension-free. Computer Data Backup is a headache for any one. Sorting of data, which has to be backed up and which has to be left, is a big headache. Some times missing of any particular data backup falls us in heavy loss, but Seagate Backup Plus gives us a unique feature to back up automatically my data without any clickings. Backup can be scheduled/customized as per our choice also. By the way, I have over 60 USB external hard drives including 18 pieces of Seagate Backup Plus as I am a IT professional and found rare failure as compared to other Seagate USB Drives/ Other brand USB Drive. I have nothing to post negative against its quality/features. It is best option at present.
5|This is a cute little thing, black, matt finish, 11cm x 7cm x 1.2 cm, it will easily fit into your jeans pocket without discomfort. Transfer speed - average 45 mbps to 85 mbps from the hard drive of your computer, average 30-35 mbps from another seagate external hard disc. 931 GB available space. Con: The only con is the USB connecting cable is short, a bigger cable would be better
5|I must recommend everyone to buy this product . Great processing capability and fast data transfer with compact size make it extremely useful and easy to handle . The speed of its data transferring is about 70-90 mb/s with awesome handsome pretty much looking hard drive which make it a perfect handy product . Transferred about 500 gb data and also from my Samsung galaxy note 3 wireless via wifi and also via computer .
5|This is an excellent product by Seagate. Bought this during diwali offer from seller IT ONLINE COMPUTERS-VOI. Transfer rate on Windows 7 USB 2.0 - Copies 4.36 GB of data in 7 Min...that's fast! Just imagine if I use USB 3.0 I am sure the speed will boost up! To check the authenticity I checked the drive Part No and other inputs on Seagate website and it correctly shows 3 Years Warranty. So just go for this wonderful product which is ideal for backing up your important data and keeping it safe. Do purchase an cover for your hard disk that would protect it, so durabilit of your product is insured. Just handle it carefully. Thanks snapdeal bought this with 10% cashback offer from Kotak.
5|this hard drive has a very good build quality and size.this is thinner,small in size and weight is very low which makes it a compact hard drive and looks so beautiful.u can easily put in pocket which is best thing about it.performance is very good.transfer rate it very high so don't take much time for any process.thumbs up for this one.
5|It's a great product, the main feature of the product is the HDD the very slim and light,so you can carry it in your pocket.The size is like that of a smart phone. In practical writing speed is 70-75 MBPS and reading speed is 80-90 MBPS.. Exact storage space is 931 GB,you will get 1TB online storage. No heating problem..
4|It provides excellent performance, Got very smooth delivery by Snapdeal, The HDD runs very smooth on my Windows 7 32 bit based laptop PC, 1 TB of storage space means a lot to me, only thing I noticed is instead of giving transfer rate at 5 GB/s it selectively transfers the data, if the data being transfered is too huge, the speed reaches upto 1-2 GB/s with USB 3.0 and 100-150 MB/s with USB 2.0 which is quite unexpected...Anyway, such difference is often not noticeble when you use it...thank u so much Seagate and Snapdeal...
5|It is one of the best in its class. Very portable, slim design, looks beautiful with its metal body. The USB3 connectivity works perfectly to quickly transfer large size files. Very reliable as Seagate provides unmatched support and replacement warranty. The only concern I have is that I feel static current on the metal body. I hope it won't damage my data or the writing magnetic needle.
4|I HAVE BEEN USING IT FOR 3 MONTHS AND I DID NOT FOUND ANY CONS. NO HEATING, SPEED OF DATA TRANSFER IS GOOD. BUT PLEASE CONFIRM AFTER SALES SERVICE OF SEAGATE WHICH I AM NOT SURE ABOUT. IF SOME ONE UNFORTUNATELY RECIEVES A DEFECTIVE PRODUCT HE MAY NEED GOOD SERVICE. OVERALL ITS AWESOME HDD IN THIS PRICE RANGE
5|It's small size makes it trendy and highly portable. Usb 3.0 data transfer speed is good, normally 90-100 mb per second. Can use this device for all for data backups as well as for back up of all ur social networking sites. I used it for backing up my lappy as well as my outlook account. Been using it for more than six months now. I have been getting same performance. Highly reliable. .go for it guys (Y). My rating 4.5 out of 5 .
4|I bought this hard disk after doing a lot of research. I my sharing my experience regarding the same. (1)Order Delivery: Satisfied with the snapdeal service this time,order reached before the expected delivery date. (2)Pros:slim,lightweight and portable,easy to use (3)cons: Speed issue particularly in windows8.1,was getting a speed of 45 Mbps in Ubuntu but only about 30 in windows.Another fact is the length of the connector.For me it should have been some longer :( Overall a good product to have and best in this range.
4|Ever since i acquired it i am satisfied with its performance. The download speed geos to 20-30 mbps in usb 2.0 and 70-80 in 3.0.it is compact and can easily be carried anywhere in your pocket.it has a backuo software which allows you to directly save your photos which you upload online.It is llight,durable and easy to use.its design is awesome and it can fit in the palm of your hand.it is a nice product and i will recommend others to buy it as it provides with huge space to store data like documents,music,videos and movies which you can take anywhere you go .You can even use it when you travel to different countries.
5|As expected, Seagate ticks all the right boxes when it comes to quality, usefulness and reliability. The HDD is a USB 3.0 compatible, and the data transfer rates are quite fast (when plugged into a 3.0 port). The Dashboard utility is quite interactive and simple to use. However, it is recommended that the Drive shouldn't have multiple users (personal opinion). This definitely shall improve its life span. Overall an excellent device
4|Good product of Seagate, it is slim, light weight, handy, and most imp. Its performance is quite good except its data transfer speed which is less as compared to other HHD. I'm satisfied with the product, it would even better if its data transfer speed would be higher.
4|Great product with good features. Total capacity is 900+Gb. Getting around 70-90 mbps transfer speed on USB 3.0 port. Very light and compact. When people take a look at it, they call it "cute". Just there's one shortcoming that the cable is bit short. Delivery time took over 1 week and the packing was very inadequate. Not even bubble wrapping for such delicate item.
4|The Seagate® Backup Plus Slim Portable Drive is the simple, one-click way to protect and share your entire digital life. Perfect to take on the go, the sleek metal case design allows for the thinnest portable hard drive available with up to 2TB of capacity. It goes anywhere — without getting in your way. Features mobile backup using the Seagate Mobile Backup App Protect your data with easy flexible backups Back up from Facebook® and Flickr® and share to YouTube® Easy to share files between Windows® and Mac computers USB 3.0 plug-and-play with no bulky power supply adapters
4|Pros : Transfer speed in usb 2 is upto 30 mbps , looks are great and it is really slim and compact to fit your jeans pocket . Cons: Usb 3.0 dose not works in windows 8.1 , also not tested with other OS ..so not sure weather it is Operating system problem or something else but am guessing it is Windows 8.1 issue . PLZ correct me if am wrong .
5|Relatively to "OSes supported" - Microsoft Windows (XP or later), Mac OS 10.4.6 or late: Everything I've bought that was compatible ONLY with windows and Mac OS was, in fact, compatible with Linux too !!!!! Have you connected this gadget to an Ubuntu OS for example ? I'm almost sure it will work perfectly !!! I have the 1TB version and I'm very pleased with it. I especially like the Seagate version of backup software. I've rejected other backup software packages because they hide my data in a cryptic compressed form, and some even have failed to retrieve back-uped data. The Seagate backup does not compress (hard drives are cheap) and I can actually find, view, open, and copy data from the backup drive easily with standard Windows explore.
5|My Seagate delivers maximum storage in a tiny , lightweight design , with speedy data transfer via its USB 3.0 port. With a low cost-per-gigabyte ratio and notable high performance.It provides complex technology and capabilities at an affordable price.A 3.0 USB port enables high speed data transfer between external hard drive and computer's built in hard drive.
4|The product is just mind blowing. The transfer speed if you attach it to a high speed port reaches upto 100MBPS. It is portable and will probably fit in your pocket. Also itsaesthetic design will attract you. The only downside may be the after sales service of Seagate. Its really bad. They once refused to provide service on the pretext that th HDD was not brought from India. They refuse to repair on these kind of silly reasons and they will not answer tour emails. The only option probably then will be to file a case in the consumer forum. I still have the correspondences I had with Accel Frontline their service partner. And they do it with almost everyone.My case was not an isolated incident. If you do not require a service within the warranty period then this is an awesome product.
5|Probably one of the best hard disks out there for the 1TB bracket..... DESIGN: Metal finish on the top with a light indicator for connection.....makes a statement!!!! SPEED: Normal speeds offered between 78-90 Mbps.... SPACE AVAILABLE: 961 GB CON: The connecting cable cud have been a bit longer..... VERDICT: The hard disk is definitely worth going for....It's value for money and the SEAGATE trust......
5|Good speed. Best price. Total space is 931GB. and get 1tb online storage. It suport bouth mac and windows. Super disigning. Real timing speed. give. usb 3.0. It also saporting to my asus mobile. auto backup is impressive.
5|The drive is extremely slim and compact. Can easily fill in a pocket. Light and easy to carry and it looks great to the eyes. A shiny metallic finish ads to its lustre. The transfer speeds are good. With USB 2.0 I got speeds averaging 25Mbps. Snapdeal delivery was prompt and I got the cheapest price online here. Overall its been a great purchase. Its the best thing ever purchased online at a good price.
5|It is worth 2 buy cause it has fine finish, slim, no overheating &amp; very important thing that is very fast as compare to other.. i m getting 32MBpS speed on USB2.0 for all types of data (files like movies, video, software, HD wallpapers).. i unable to test on USB3.0 speed.. bt reviews for USB 3.0 is also very good.. as i feel it is the best product..
5|a masterpiece from Segate. Pros : Slim Design Speed is good on 3.O No heating problem. 3 year warranty. Overall its a good hardisk from Segate and genuine product from snapdeal.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive received in perfect condition and its data transfer speed is very high. For backup of documents &amp; other records this is one of the best product. I am happy with the device.
5|All PROS No CONS!!!! 1. Great Price for 1 TB 2. Pocket Friendly 3. No Heat Up 4. 200 GB of Cloud Storage Good Deal from Snapdeal... :) Thank you Snapdeal!!!
5|The transfer speed is very good ..... 70MBps average .. The only issue is the USB cable is not that much good quality.. But overall it's great.. :)
5|Compact size with good transfer speed with drive backup &amp; cloud storage ,also look is very good ,easy to carry anywhere
5|After comparing it with its counter parts i finally decided to buy Backup Plus Slim 1TB. It works perfectly in both windows as well as in Ubuntu. USB cable is a bit small in length in my opinion but that's okay for me and i am fully satisfied with this product .
5|After using Seagate's external drive earlier, this is a second drive from Seagate and haven't disappointed me till date. The drive is seamlessly working with Mac after formatting to compatible format to Macbook. The form factor is really portable and slim along with its great finish. The product came with data cable and transfer of data is really fast.
5|Arguably the best product in 1 TB segment right now. I got an average upload speed of 90 Mbps on large files and a little slower with smaller and more numerous files (as expected). The looks are cool too. It is petite and pretty. Go for it.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Good quality for any other hard drive and also your can take a backup small and nice look I like it. USB 2.0 speed 20MB to 27MB
5|Friends if you are looking for a best looking,sleek,portable hard disk then its for you.Main pros of this disk is that it supports all popular platforms like Mac,Windows, Android, iOS which will let you to share or transfer your data between your devices. It is very slim,like your mobile &amp; wallet you can carry this drive in your pockets.&amp; comes with 3 yrs of warranty. By my side i recommend you this because it also works on Android which you can use with your Tablets &amp; Smartphones. &amp; choice is yours,happy shopping.
4|Write speeds are amazing...did hit 112mbps once on a 5200 rpm hard drive...average write speed of about 65-72 mbps....Just one fault i have with this hard drive is that it does not have hardware encryption...meaning that data is stored in hard drive as it is without encryption....wd ultra is a better deal than this as the data is encrypted in 256 bit as it gets copied as well as it has password protection ...Anyways it is awesome for home users that are not concerned about the security of data....XD
5|Proud to have this One as It was Rated Best Hardisk for Backup if you are purchasing only for storage than you must go for Seagate extension This one is a Slimmest Aluminium Casing with a Good Length cable vs Other hardisk with 18 inches length Copy Speed 50 mbps Move speed 70-80 mbs
5|Firstly, I must accentuate that Snapdeal packaging was the extremely good. It was wrapped under several layers comprising of bubble wrap and therocol. It couldn't have been better. The date of manufacturing of the product was March, 2015. I verified the warranty by registering the product and I got full three years of warranty. This hard drive is robust and doesn't heat up at all. I've had WD elements that stopped working after two years. The best thing about this Seagate drive is that the drive inside the enclosure is a normal SATA III drive attached to a SATA to USB converter, unlike Western Digital drives that have USB connector soldered to the PCB. It means that if for some reason the connector develops some fault, one can remove the drive from the enclosure and use it as a normal laptop hard drive, or one could simply replace the usb-to-SATA converter.
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage &amp; Mobile Device Very good .Nice working .
5|I ordered the device at a very decent price as compared to the other sites, the device is amazingly good, I tried it with a USB 3.0 port it gave a 100mbps transfer rate. Overall the device is great and do order it from snapdeal only,as I got it the very next morning without any extra charge.
5|I got the hard disk within 4 days. There was a lot of packing as always but the product is truly good. It is fast,cheap and also affordable. The only problem is that after installing the seagate dashboard the PC becomes slow. so don't install it. The hard disk will work just fine without the dashboard software. The software just gives a function to backup the data in the disk nothing else. So it is a waste. But if you want to use the disk for backup you certainly have to install the software. Everything else was great. There are no complaints. Kepp up the good work.
5|i use seagate backup plus slim 1tb external Hard drive. its performance is very good. data transfer is very fast. easy to connect any computer and laptop. its very useful device.
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB is an excellent choice I made after comparisons with other hard drives. It is just a trust worthy friend.... Love to carry it. I even use the other one of larger capacity as a back up data. Happy sharing it.
5|Its a luxury item right from the moment you hold it in your hands but the price does not say so!. The top is made of Aluminium and the back has a matte plastic feel. It feels solid in the hands. The Seagate logo on the front is emboldened shiny metal engraved on the top cover and I must say these it feels premium because of all these. You get this kind of aesthetics only in a costly product. I am a sucker for build quality and this little thing is at the top of my list. The WD Ultra on the other hand feels very plasticky and cheap. Performance is pretty much what you get from other external HDD`s that have a USB 3.0 interface. The form factor is very slim though, can fit easily in pants. Slimmer than the WD My Passport Ultra. WIll be ordering a 2TB version soon!.
5|Its look is great. Good in terms copy speed and easily detectable. no issues with driver install. I have faced great issue with WD passport. Its highly painful. This HD is better compared to it.
5|Really happy with the product 1.Fast transfer of files 2.Stylish,slim 3.Got onedrive cloud storage space for free Really the best choice for a 1TB harddisk at a reasonable price
5|good read &amp; write speeds Build quality is very good, sturdy and has a nice feel compact and must buy for people looking for backups or data storage Handy and extremely portable low running noise negligible vibrations good quality cables
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage &amp; Mobile Device Backup (Black)-It is only the continuation, and seeing very normally thai it is acting properly as usual. I am proud to be a member of seagate. Thanks to snapdeal to hear about my "dil ki deal".Many many thanks, happy diwali.
5|This is my first product from snapdeal and I got the product in good condition. Pros :compact and easy to use. Cons :Transfer speed should be little more.overall transfer speed is far better than other external hard disks.I am really very delighted to use this product.
4|product is good and offer also(Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage &amp; Mobile Device Backup (Black)) thanku
5|Much better than the usual Seagate external hard disk - the ergonomics, the size, the weight, the speed of data transfer etc. is much better than the earlier Seagate hard drives. Combining this with the price ( around 4.2K) offered by SD, this is a very good deal :-)
5|Its an impressive portable hard drive for its physical size and capacity. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim not only performs very well but is also one of the more competitively priced portable drives on the market. The Seagate Backup Plus Slim has a lot to like, including its great performance, unbeatable price and one of the best bundled software suites for managing backups both locally and on the go.
4|its good product. you can connect to system 2-3 hrs ,no more heating problem. But its transfer speed is not so good. transfer rate is 12-14 mb/s when transfer data system to seagate drive and transfer data from seagate drive to other drive like pendrive its speed is 4-5mb/s. you can purches this if speed don't matter.
5|I ordered Seagate Back Up Slim from Snapdeal. I earlier had a bulky HDD which made it difficult to carry everywhere. Seagate Looks: Backup Slim is slim and small enough to be carried in my jean pocket. This makes it truly portable. Performance: I have been using this product from 4 months almost. Have not faced any issues till now. Service back up: Seagate service is good as far as I have known. The old HDD I had was from Seagate too. Their service back up is good, at least for Bangalore. A good buy. Price: Good "Value for Money" for the price quoted.
5|I loved this Hard drive. As it's slim , easliy fit in Pocket. nice built. No sound. sexy look. The faclity back up of mobile, PC,social site is useful. USB 3.0 plug and play , speed is really good. So it's just perfect option.
4|Hard drive is as really good as i expected but the only thing is that i m disappointed with the speed. Speed is not that much which i was expecting.well afterall seagate is nice and trusted brand so if u wanted to buy one so jst go ahead order it without any hesitation and if u want a fast speed drive u can search for some other drives like wd passport ultra 1tb,wd my passport these are also a good drives.i am carrying these drives.
4|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive with 200GB of Cloud Storage &amp; Mobile Device Backup
3|Seagte backup plus slim. 1 TB I like it because. Its less wait. But copying. Speed. Was little Bit improvement was we expect till good prouduct and I m happiii***
5|I was planning to buy to portable hd to store all my imp docs and other education docs.i did some research for same checked various website.i checked wholesale vendor market near my residence and price was higher as compared to snapdeal and with other vendor i was not getting cloud storage. I placed order and recvd product on tym though i was not happy with packaging of harddisk but after using it.i can say its awesome and to quote live example while i was at work.i was suppose to submit some docs,hence i contacted my mom and told her to connect harddisk to laptop and using seagate app on iphone i was able to download same from drive.its just awesome.
4|Seagate backup Plus HDD is very good, durable and reliable and compact as well. Data transfer rate is good. It is slim stylish look and easy to carry. I really feel this product is very good and would like to buy again. But yeah I would like to be it more stylish and more fast.
5|I got this awesome product from Snapdeal in a very competitive price. Features in Seagate Slim Backup Plus is superb as with the transfer speed and its small handy size. its very easy to use any where any time.
5|Its very very good hard disk. Its 2.0 USB speed is 20-30 MBps. But its cloud storage is very costly. I think if Seagate think over it then it would be the best hard disk ever.
5|Its very small in size and handy to use ! It is very comfertable in my palm ,its light weight too. Overall awesome product from seagate super slim and unbeatable at performance .I got 3 years +2 months warranty which is great you cannot demand more. Snapdeal service is going better
5|it is the best HDD one can ever get. it does not get heated up easily and provides a great transfer speed .it also comes with a superb packing
5|This one i think is the best hdd at this price! Speed is good, up to 120 mbps on usb 3.the cable provided is also great....for the first time I have loved the packaging by Snapdeal!
5|Pros: Sleek and compact,Fast,cost-effective,usb powered and most of all brand reliablity of Seagate Cons: only con is that u cant mishandle this.It is smaller than a 4.5 inch smartphone and can easily be damaged. All in all,go for it.
5|Superb product.In price , size &amp; look bestest among all other.In use it is very smoothly running nd with the super speed. In compare of the all 1tb harddisks,it the perfect which all should choose. And offcourse SEAGATE is the beSt...
5|Its very slim and small. metallic finish at top surface, u can easily put it in pocket.Transfer rate is about 35mbps with usb 2.0 . but definitely be greater for usb 3.0. connectivity is quite easy. one more important thing vibration created by it is very very less which is very good thing.
5|I used it for a month. I do not get any problem. Some time its speed fall drastically in copy for some files. I don't know what happened to thiose files. But for other files i am at average 56 mbps speed all time. This looks slow but my internal hard disk transfer speed is slow. Thats why i am getting this speed. I test it with some software and all those shows this hard disk has a speed around 100 mbps.
5|This is my 3rd Seagate HDD. With Time the hardware quality (perhaps making it less durable as earlier models) has degraded but it is compact, slim &amp; has good design, finish. If you require personal storage, this is brand! Don't go for anything else. With SnapDeal this is my 5th Order &amp; they keep getting better. They are surely revolutionizing online trade in India.
4|As the successor to the FreeAgent Go Flex, the Seagate Backup Plus Portable keeps all of the key features of its predecessor, including USB 3.0, and optional adapters for other interfaces like Thunderbolt and Firewire 800. So what's new? The Backup Plus is faster than the GoFlex, and Seagate's backup software has been reworked, adding options to back up files to Facebook, YouTube and other social networking sites. Of course, you don't have to use the social features (or even Seagate's software) to get a lot of out of this drive, and if you're looking for a reliable, flexible, upgradeable portable drive, the Backup Plus Portable is the one to get.
5|A perfect HDD with fast data transfer speed &amp; also compatible with MAC OS.
5|very good , Small in size easy to keep -Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive
4|As expected the drive is pretty slim and sharp in appearance. Speed of file transfer is also quite decent. Seagate is a nice brand for external hard disks.
5|The disk was received in good condition. Download and upload speed goes up to 100 mbps with USB 3. Best Quality.
5|Very good quality Looking nice Speed also good I dont understand 200gb cloud storage
5|Yes I got it only 3 days After ordering thanks to the Delivery courier service.....1st of all the product is amazing &amp; it looks so good in usb 3.0 its transfer speed 90/100 mbps n in usb 2.0 its 25/30 mbps all over nice product
5|Best 1 TB 2.5" External HDD at the moment! Backed by the trusted brand of Seagate, I blindly picked this one up and I am really happy I did. USB 3.0 speeds are delivered as promised. There is no better drive at the price!
5|The product is great, the delivery was fast, seagate is a reputed company Free paragon drivers from web (seagate) to be used with mac, so now I use it with win and mac together. Free backup software, free cloud storage.... Only thing I miss is encryption on the fly..... A must have!
5|Perfect product from snapdeal at unbelievably low price. Very handy and compact hdd easy to handle , use and no software needed also. Very fast rate of data transfer and easily accessable. Good for both personal and business purpose. Most astonishing thing is that its compactible to all platforms / OS. Small drawback is that its some features works only on new versions of operating system.
5|Very easy to handle, comfortable in use, high speed, low weight,price is good, I will recommend to all to buy this 1tb hard disk.. now I can store my precious moments in this hard drive and rewind anywhere because it is too comfortable to carry in the journey... thank u seagate and thanks to snapdeal to give such a good offer...
4|Its Slim,Its very fast ,quite light and portable. Works with both Windows PCs and Macs.Comes with a standard USB cable.Worked well with all USB 3.0 and USB 2.0 ports I tried it with. Excellent price per TB Extremely portable Great Performance
5|This is perfect for keeping backup data... Speed Is also good for usb 2.0 and best for usb 3.0...
5|The Seagate Backup Plus Slim is very fast and portable. The drive offers up to 1TB of storage space, includes helpful backup software, and works with both Windows PCs and Macs out of the box.
3|Value for money. It gives upto 100 mbps of copying speed. Good device. Slim in size easy to carry Decent looks.....
4|the hard disk is beautifully designed with sleek and slim look, the thing definitely draws attention of anyone.But it seems fragile and lacks the sturdy look of transcend. But for thr great looks i think its pardonable. the specification says the dwnld speed should exceed 50mb/s with usb 3.o but in my case it restrains itself at 20-35 mb/s and not more. i am not sure why is this and tried to google the solution but did not find any yet, ok lets keep the finger crossed and wait for the promised transfer speed, but Snapdeal should be a little careful about the packaging for such fragile things so that no harm is caused at the time of transportaion as I received the product in an outer box having no outer protection of thermocol or soft pad.
5|Well nothing much needs to be said when it comes to the company named 'Seagate'. They have been a very popular brand in this storage device section for quite a long time and they surely deserve that popularity. All you need to do is just install the software that comes within this device, into your computer and there you go, no more worries about backup. This was just the thing my office needed. Commendable piece of workmanship. Keep it up seagate.
5|Foe all those movie geeks its a must buy. I can can connect this drive to pc, tv and to my S4 via USB.just format this with fat32.fat32 is with only 1 limitation of 4gb max file size.otherwise u can also format to ntfs for connecting to pc and tv.
5|hard drive is very handy but USB cable is too short to connect for TV. any way price is good I satisfied this product
5|Its a pretty good stuff.Ready to go anywhere and portable and can be used on any system without any worry.The speed was around 40 MB/S all the time and huge amount of data may be transferred in minutes of time.I recommend all of you to buy this perfect product.Its good for everyone.Must go for it...
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB External Hard Disk very nice product. It is awesome speed 100 MB/Sec and material also good with compact,easily carried in pocket.
5|The design of the drive is good and very compact. While copying it gives better speed. I Checked the product in Seagate Web site and it shows Warranty up to 2018 (3 years as mentioned in the description). Seagate is one of the best manufacturers of external hard drives.
5|Transfer speed is really good. Very portable can carry in your pocket. But if its cable would be slight long that would be great, so that I can attach with TV. I will have to buy some other extension cable. Over all the product is very good.
4|just received my seagate backup plus slim 1 tb in 3 days from snapdeal . It is having very good read and writing speed . very light weight . easy to carry . i would like to recomment it . go for it .
5|I already have the normal seagate backup plus 1TB hard disk. But this hard disk size was so small compared with my previous hard disk.
5|very light and handy compared to any other drives. slim feature makes it attractive. transfer rate is excellent. fell in love with this product. a hard drive cover that comes along with it would be a suggestion.
5|this is very cute and good looking. secondly this more efficient in speed response.data writing and retrevings quite good.over all performance is best.
5|After extensive verification of other products of same category i have selected this product &amp; i am very much satisfied &amp; happy to discover that i have the ability to choose the perfect one like SEAGATE BACKUP PLUS SLIM 1TB PORTABLE EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE for me.
5|Excellent product. Very light weight, easy to carry and good performance. Wireless drive is great option by Seagate.
5|Very slim look and have premium build quality,vibration is minimum, data transfer rate is fine as USB 3.0 supported, working with windows 10 without any problem.
5|HDD is really compact and easy to use. a good storage product in this price range. Metal body makes it durable . transfe rate is good. overall Worth to by product. about packing, its not that good only one cover of bubble wrap... But, the Bluedart service is good. I got this product at home within 5 days after order and in good condition.
5|Genuine product with warranty... Thanks to seller... It's a light weight hard disk smaller than a passport .. Also it has mobile back up through wireless where connecting ur PC n phone to same wifi will help u back up wireless and that's a amazing feature.. Also social back up is excellent where you can connect your facebook etc and also your photos from Der Wer will back up to Ur hard disk..
5|it's an awesome product.very fast to install in my windows 7 ultimate compac laptop. avarage speed of copying 30-35 mbps.very light and compact device.only thing i little bit dissapointed is that , it provides only 931 gb free space out of 1000gb.
5|It is durable and easy to use. It is fast giving 30mbps speed.Also it is vert relaible and slim. Its backup option is awsome you can backup your social meadia photos and google drive photos
5|This one was my first experience with snapdeal. yeah i can say a best opening or best product for me. I like its service and the product is also good. I am using it. Its slim n compatible n it have backup application included with it. at last i would like to say. if u r going to purchase 1 tb external HDD of other company then you need to to think over it.
5|hard drive is nice and elegant with super fast speed.easy to operate and small in size!!!
5|This product I'd small in size. And very good in speed. But price is not too good its little but high compare to other sites. But it compact
5|excellent data transfer speed in USB 3.0 55 Mb/s but in USB 2.0 its speed is slow.
5|just got what i saw.... The best part is that the hard disk is fulfilling my every requirement, shape, size, weight and the transfer speeds are nyc.... I am using it with Mac n doing great....
5|Best harddisk to use for backup. Auto backup software is Useful to take critical data automatically. Transfer rate is very fast due to USB 3.0. Very sleek &amp; handy. Easy to Carry.
5|Gives speeds of 150 MBps for reading and 110 MBps for writing. Less heating Compact size Stunning looks
5|Awesome Product. Nice, leight weight and compact design, easily fit on your shirt's pocket. Best thing is that it has an automatic backup software. So, to backup your content, you don't need to manually copy and paste files and folders. Backup and restore is very easy.
5|I already own a toshiba 1tb hard drive which has been giving me a lot of problems due to the cable and most of the time have fear of losing data. So bought this one from snapdeal and Wow, very happy with the purchase and the hard drive is smaller than my 5.5 inch screen phone so you can imagine ;)
5|Nice Product no doubt, good data transfer speed. As I have already a seagate fan, so, I will definitely like it. But the only thing is that the Seagate Seal over the Package was tempered before reached my hand. However, the same was in good condition I hope as I doesn't seem any scratch so far.
5|Very beautiful product.Lightening speed ,faster than any other hd.Very compact.Speed for usb 3.0 approx 90 mbps.In 2.0 approx 50 mbps.Easily fits in yous palm..Looks are incredible ..Brilliant metal finish..Highly recommended product..(go for it)..
5|Delivery was within 4 days n wen I opened I thought it was larger than ma cell phone but its size was half of cell phone... Now I can backup ma PC's data n take anywhere I want.. Don't think anything guys jus purchase it, it's really Awesome...
5|I got the product which I was expecting .Its compact &amp; light weight with good looking design .Coming to transfer speeds I am getiing 25MBytes of Write speed (to HDD).Thanks snapdeal for getting it for RS350 less than other etailors.
4|its good hdd to but writing speed usb 3.0 is around 70 mbps on usb 2.0 is around 30 mbps
5|Data transfer rate is excellent....:) Average data transfer rate in 2.0 showing 42mb/sec.... looking like small power bank..
4|Great product from Seagate. But if u connect to USB 2.0 transfer/write speed is around 20-25mbps.
5|Very nice product ...with superfast speed.. I just trust on snapdeal for better delivery and after delivery service About this hard drive as it is really working so fast on WIfi no need to connect any cord from mobile to hard drive data gets transfer like the superbean applications. Thanks really gappy with this product
5|Got this hard drive just now. looks good n small in size. needs to check with the warranty in Seagate Website.
5|Quality of Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive is very good
5|The product is simply awesome and having good transfer speed of about 25mbps and just got the product in 3 days....... Good work.
4|This product is well and good with amazing one drive cloud with 200gb You can buy it if you wish Bui recomended to buy this product Its good
5|I am using it since 3 months. Good transfer speed. But in usb 2.0 it gives arround 25mbps.
5|This hard disk provides a very good high transfer rate of upto 30 MBps. Further, it doesn't heat up a lot. One good feature is that it automatically goes to an energy-efficient sleep mode when not used for about 10-15 minutes. Although I haven't used HDD from WD or Transcend, I could say this is one of the best.
5|This is working up to the expectation of storing data and freeing space of my laptop. Out of 1TB i.e. 1024 GB you will be able to use 930 GB. But it is very sleek and easy to carry just like your 5 inch smart phone. It is complete paisa vasool.
5|The best Hard Drive I've ever bought. The size is perfect and it can easily slide in your jeans pocket. For maximum benefit i suggest installing the Seagate App in ones mobile. Worth every Rupee. Hats off to Snapdeal for putting such an amazing product at such an amazing price.
5|Hard disk size "2.5" Inches, very light weight, Quality is very good. But Snapdeal took more than the promised / expected time to deliver this product. Overall am happy with the product. Recommendation: It would be great, If snapdeal could provide the outer soft cover for the HDD in form of combo offer.
5|this is my third seagate hard drive..its just wow!..don't hesitate just click buy button.yes ,200 GB Ondrive storage is also like a bonus....
4|Liked its size small, fit to anywhere,fast. I really enjoyed transferring files from Computer to hard disk. It could be better if it has one touch backup option......
5|After using this product for about a week now I came across the following traits of the product: - Its really handy - its fast - Its awesome - Snapdeal's delivery services are reliable as usual - the color of the product is very nice - shiny and beautiful - Its size almost same of my iPhone 6 A must buy product guys :) go for it :)
5|Nice product by Seagate. Nice data transfer speed. Portable device. Easily fit in your pocket.
4|Recently purchased. Compact, Easy to use, Data transfer rate is good. As of now I am happy to purchase this product.
5|Very Nice Product... Slim And Small.. Easy To Carry Anywhere... With Very Fast Copy/Paste Speed ( 90-110 Mbps)... I Recommend This Product For Everyone.... ;) Also Thanks To Snapdeal for Very Fast Delivary (Also Thanks Gojavas) and Very Good Packaging... :D
4|transfer speed is 20 mb/sec 70 gb transfer time is upto 35 min
4|Been using it for 2-3 days now. Works well and 3.0 usb transfer is quite fast. Love the metallic finish and styling and also the small light which starts glowing as soon as the hard disk is connected to the laptop.
5|This is an excellent product . So far it is working well and has good transfer speed. I am satisfied with this product
5|Its very good at performance ..its speed ia really great. m happy with this external hard drive n it made my work more easy n accessible.
5|Best external hard disk by Seagate.. Slim, durable, high speed data transfer and easy to carry. I would definitely recommend this item.
5|It is a real beauty...i mean in size as well as in the performance...feel great that i made the right choice in buying seagate backup plus ....and was extremely happy that i got it in a very reasonable price....
5|Its good, light weight, slim, data transfer rate also too good. Suggest for friends willing to buy ext. Hdd of this product, buy it from snapdeal in reasionable price and to get fast delivery.
4|Till now its working perfectly. Good speed at data transferring. Transferred 10 gb data withing few seconds. Really compact could not believe it to be so small and good packing by snapdeal.
5|Awesome product........ ( Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB Portable External Hard Drive )
5|I Purchased Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB hard disk from SNAPDEAL.This hard disk is awesome. Super transfer speed with killer look &amp; durable aluminium body..... its so slim &amp; handy.
5|I have recently purchased 1 TB seagate hard disk and it is lighter,small and easy to carry..its performance is up to the expectation level date.. Just purchase it ..do not ponder too much..
5|this is very good product from seagate, this hdd copy 200gb data in 69min to my laptop yes it is recommended to all it based workers
5|Awesome product to use very compact and easy to use this device helps me alot to carry my useful and important data with me always when I ever i need it i van use this product directly with my cell phne through OTG cable when ever i need it
4|Stylish,Compact,Durable,Copying speed is Good. It took me around 10mins to copy 500 Gb. Overall You r going to love the ptoduct.
5|Compact, data transfer speed is very fast. Overall very nice at this price
5|excellent product seagate backup plus 1tb external drive
5|It works perfectly great with all the windows versions, Seagate is most trustworthy, and bestseller for all these years, consequently.! MUST BUY!
5|I got the hard disk on the time. There are no issue after using 8 days till now. But connection cable is too short it may be long than this. There are no external power required just plug in and play. There no problem of hitting for small use but after long time use there are some hitter. Otherwise its awesome product at this price. I recommended to all. Just go for it..... Thanks to snapdeal for giving my #DilKiDeal....
5|i'm using this drive for 3 days it has shown no point to worry about it's the one of the best products in this price zone its the best only concern is it gives u only 931gb of storage
5|This is my first Seagate Backup device and I had a thrill in using this device. Good job in making this masterpiece. Pros: Fast copy and write data is great, nice looks, very fast .
5|Using it for 4 days and the hard disk looks promising so far. The max speed with USB 3.0 while copying large file is around 80 Mb/s... for smaller files the transfer speed is in the range of 20 ~ 40 Mb/s.
5|i got it with a very compact package. it is very slim &amp; data transfer speed is also good
5|Great Performance!! Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive.
4|Its speed going up to 42.3 GB while copying files to this drive. doesn't heats up.
5|transfer write speed is 54-60mb per sec in usb3.0. its highly recomended than wd passport ultra because it overheats and needs a double usb connection both the harddisk does not connect via usb hub.
5|The product is very good and easy to use. I use it for my personal use for storing my photos and videos. It is also very useful in taking backup copies of important files. Which is good rather than copying it on any optical storages. Using this product as an external storage for movies, music and photographs. Good and simple design and robust functionality.
4|product is good bt its cable is lose n it don't hove 1024gb its only have 930gb
5|Very good product by Seagate which is useful for the storage of my data. I am very happy with this product.
5|Amazing hard drive in reasonable price.. Good speed and body, thnx snapdeal
5|Seagate 1 tb hard disk is wow ....nice speed in copying files I wold recommend this product
4|The device is superb..very slim ,equivalent to a smart phone.The price offered here is great as compared to other online shopping sites . The only thing i am not able to understand is ,How &amp; where to take a backup of my seagate hard drive files ??if anyone can tell me that,it would be great..
5|An awesome product foe this price range. Very easy to carry as fits perfectly in a normal pocket. I am getting more than 25 Mbps o reading as well as writing speed. Has an inbuilt software for taking backup and registering the product with seagate. A must buy for every movie freaks.
4|Light weight, Really slim size Good performance Easy to use
4|The drive is cool. Comes with Seagste Backup and automatically does incremental backups when connected to your laptop. Also has a cloud backup feature which I found a little complicated.
5|for computer backup them my computer is fail them a life provide by memory Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive my full memory store in this .the good external heard drive provide by snapdeal .com
5|Slim, fast, and good performance. Looks very attractive and the Seagate logo makes a feel of an amazing product in your hand. Just go for it, no need to think more. I've purchased after making a lot of comparisons with other brands like WD, Sony etc. And I'm sure I have made a perfect decision. Remember one thing... 5 stars for the product only. Not for the service.
5|Was impressed the speed of backup. Was able to backup around 40 GB of Office Data within 30 minutes.
4|Awesome product in this range. Nice, compact and provides great data transfer rate. Easy to handle.
5|Seagte backup plus 1 tb hard drive I don't have words .. fast copying cross platform-xp,windows 7,8 usb 2.0 and usb 3.0 and i place order on 2 jan and i got this delivery on 4 jan so snapdel asowme
5|Ultimate hard drive.xlent transfer speed.slim and simple.jus plug n play.no issues till now.go for it.
4|The only shortcoming is it does not gives full 1 tb of storage. And the connecting cable is liable to breakdown soon
5|I recommend this product, as it is slim and light weight for people on the go (must use soft pouch for storage), seagate is having easy replacement in case of warranty replacement issue...
4|This is a better external hard drive but it is not so fast as i want.In win 7 it gives only 30mbps and in win 8 only 40mbps in usb 2.0.so i give only 4 stars.
5|&gt; Work properly &gt; Fast capacity to receive data &gt; Smart size with light weight
5|Very compact product. I can keep in my shirt's pocket. High speed data access for read/write both. My PC HDD crashed and had no back up, coasted me 7500 rs for data back up..I wish I could have purchased this product days ago.
5|The product is very compact and is very easy to carry. The transfer speed Is also unbelievable. It makes the transferring of file quite easy and too fast
5|If you have Seagate Backup External HD with you you can rest in peace - without worrying about loss of your precious data. This product comes with a built-in software that will help you backup your data from the PC to the external HD. Highly recommeded for those having computers with valuable data.
5|I have used this product &amp; four that it is a perfect HDD &amp; the price is also very reasonable. Thank you very much for sending a good &amp; useful product.
4|very good one with good quality and good looking.slim and with high speed file transfer rate.i like the shape and it is very good compared with other products.
5|Very compact, but efficient portable Hard drive. Built-in back-up software is awesome. Any number of devices can be backed up using the proprietary software. Also, it has mobile data back-up facility through cloud network.
5|U know segate is excellent in speed nd working in good condition. It's giving speed of 75-95 mbps. Totally no problem with it..... Thanks to snapdeal
5|Must buy. Asusual snapdeal fastest delivery. Silm &amp; light weight. Can carry anywhere easily. Copying speed is very good. I recommend to everyone those who are looking for 1 TB hardisk. Thank you snapdeal for amazing deal last week. I will buy again.
5|A perfect light weight &amp; slim external hard drive with USB 3.0 which copies data much faster. Absolutely satisfied with delivery too as it got delivered in just 2 days despite of given date of 7 days later.
5|Best and good speed transfer 20 maps to 25mbps but one thing Blue dart going dua to delay up to 25days. .....
5|Good HDD, got 930gb of 1024Gb. The product seems fragile , may give problems if it falls though never happened that with me
5|its definitely a nice product. I dint expect such a nice product. I am already using a 500 gb external hard disk of seagate but that one is heavier than this one. In addition the one which I am using is thicker than this one. This hard disk is as per the specifications described on snapdeal. Extremely light product and extremely thin. About the services, I agree that snapdeal doesnt provide good services but it was my luck that I got fantastic delivery within specified time. I think they haavae changed the courier companies. This is actually a nice product and I recommend this product.
1|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive speed is very sloww , firstly cover very fast and then very slow in copieng
5|slim, lightweight, fast transfer of data, what else do u need in a external hard disk drive. all hail SEAGATE
5|Very Slim Design, you will get 956GB Usable Memory. USB3.0 read speed is splendid (60 to 80 Mbps). Worked on Windows 8/7/XP, and Fedoro/Ubuntu. Used as media reader for LED Tv as well.
5|This hard drive is an amasing product...light weight and has very fast transfer speed...
5|Nice and Better Performance HDD. Brand always brand
5|Nice design and superb speed performance. Slim trim and super durable. Easy to use. Nice in built software.
5|Most economic in price.. good transfer speed.. very much reliable....good appearance..
3|Seagate 1TB External HDD product is a good one to purchase and really worth for money invested.
5|HDD is very small in size and have attractive look
4|Transfer speed is excellent. Highly recommended
4|good data transfer speed, no complaints so far... reasonable price....
5|My Review for Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB External Drive is Easy to use slim can be carried to any place Overall Excellent Product
5|Segate Backup Plus Slim is the Best Hard disk to buy. Transferring speed is the best and this is the awesome Hard disk ,
5|Very cute look.light weight.and slim trim look.its 3.0 so amazing downloading speed near about 70 mbps.for first use u should install a software that is in hd
5|Superb device Transfer speed upto 80 - 90 Mbps
2|DRAW BACK: 1. Spelized cable provided and if cable lost you cannot operate your device 2. device operating speed is very less compare to other devices Benifit 1. Slim design 2. Easy to handle and stylish
4|Really good one I guess.slim and really powerful. Transfer rate is good.within two three mins a huge file of 15 GB getting transferred. I will definitely recommend it for you guys.
4|Hi,friends its really very good product...and looking so nice and cute...and work much better for others HDD...its speed very good. so Dont hasited ....just buy it,and full to enjoy
4|Its a good product from Seagate....its size really made it unique one, guess this is the best hard disk which is very handy &amp; backup is best option provided by seagate dashboard....the only backlog is, it don't have PASSWORD facility....
5|1 TB EXTERNAL HARD DISK SEGATE IT IS WORKING FINE.No complain,but while connecting in LCD TV in USB board all the picture folder it contain,its opening time is high.
5|The product is what we expect of Seagate. The backup speed is fast enough. As for the packaging and delivery, it was securely packed in bubble wrap and delivery was on time. Happy with the experience.
5|I hv brought this product since 2 weeks hgo. Till now it's working up to mark. Total Capacity - 970gb Read &amp; Write speed is approx 100mb/s in 3.0usb port. 5 stars from my side :)
5|it was a great companion for me as it was able to store my complete digital data along with me. i was surprised with product capability. it very sleek design. and capability for the storage. it contained necessary software along with it such as wd security.
5|Very easy to store, both the data and the hard drive. Elegant looking with slim size. Must buy if you are looking for back security
5|seagate is best at hard disk ,storage and have well known good prestige ...@ past i had purchase &amp; use two harddisk of seagat's....perform well....as once i get replacement easily.....so i satisfy....good product.
5|Awsmmm device Very useful fr data storage and easy to handle with its slim and short structure..... And also have a superb look
4|Worth buying. It is the most portable hard drive in 1 TB Segemnet, just like moblie in your pocket.
5|Nice product. I got the same 4 HDD. I am using it for back up my data. I didn't got any problem yet.
5|best way to store data and data transfer is very rapid
5|i feel some of the pros in the product ***it is used anywhere ***it is more compact *** easy to handle
5|The hardrive is very slim and the transfer rate is around 14Mpbs. Its of dimensions 10cm to 8cm and just plug and play with USB. No external adapter needed. I am happy with the product
5|It is data store device which is very useful for to store data most important ... ..easy operate light wiegth carry any where...
5|Used around 1 week till now, working perfectly. Transfer rate about 40MB/s.snapdeal provide at best rate compared to other websites.
5|Seagate is best hard drive in backup plus slim model &amp; very easily copy &amp; paste iam very happy purchase this hard drive
5|Look wise, it's the slimmest.I have not used much. but still Performance is better. Though its getting heated quickly as compared to my old seagate hard disk.I can recommend for others to buy this product.
5|Slim, fast and good performance. Compared to other products in this category, this is a superior product. Have been using it for sometime and found it to be great
5|Seagate hard disk very small in size is good .After using 3 4 hr it don't get heated nice product I really love it best hard disk
5|I feel proud being an owner of this device. Very cool in looks and data transferring speed is awesome !! Thanks snapdeal for this quality product,on-time delivery with the best price deal.
5|This Product is really good but discount amount is not credited immediately HDFC debit card holder 10 percentage discount Please try to credit the amount while purchasing itself like flipkart Still I did not receive my discount amount. Please do the needful I have received my product before estimated time That is good But the only thing is discount amount should be credited while purchasing itself I used my friend debit card I Really worried on this Flipkart is good compare to this thing So try to resolve this thing ASAP Thanks
3|Transfer speed was very slow. Initially transferring the data even through seagate dashboard took lot of time. ... Rest no leather cover was available as it is available in segate expansion. ..
5|It was delivered as promised, would have loved if faster delivery was possible. HD was as advertised and packing was reasonable. Free storage in onedrive is only for two years, somehow I did not notice it before buying.
5|Nice harddrive having a greater copy speed .. Rpm is 7500 which will give u maximum copying speed But the packaging of snap deal was worst .... i got it with a snapdeal polythene only no wrappers
4|Good transfer speed, look is nice. sturdy. overall very nice at this price.
5|This Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External HDD is very good by performance wise and speed wise. Also snapdeal offers and services are good.
5|If u are looking for a nice and portable external harddisk with awesome performance this is the best product available.This product is sleek and very stylish,go for it without any hesitation.
4|Simple,Compact,Light Weight and working absolutely the way it has been designed for. Overall a good purchase.
5|Exclent. It is useful to preserved documents, photos and other important things . Being a external HD there are no chance to currept data.
5|Product is vet good condition while receiving and copying speed also very high. i purchase the item with low cost comparing to other e-commerce website.
4|It's looking slim like smart phone. We can keep it in our pockets. Easy to lift anywhere not much weight. I hope seagate quality will be good and can reach service center easily. Snap deal service is good. Rate wise is good compare to other shopping sites.
5|I used the Regular seagate backup plus external drive but this one is more slim than the other one and still that fast. The inbuilt backup software is the perfect one for taking autobackup. This product is Perfect for all those who dont have time to take backup coz the backup plus software which comes inbuilt takes the backup as the the schedule you create.
5|Product delivery was awesome as it was delivered on next day for this I just want to say thanks to snapdeal. Product is too good it exceeded my expectation as it is working fine it really helps us to keep our data safe and secure.
5|Segate slim backup plus is fast and secure, supports usb 3.0
5|Data transfer and receive fast very likely this product very good
4|I have got an good shipment and have good performance in working with the 1 TB Harddisk
5|its slim &amp; data transfer is fast.So, over all a good buy.
5|Very usefull high speed performance Light wight
5|seagate 1 Tb Hdd is very good product
5|Data transfer rate is 20MB/s average
5|nice hard disc for storage the huge data's with high speed transper rate
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive is Very good..!
5|good speed of transfer varies from 30 kb/s to 45 kb/s in USB 2.0 &amp; 3.0 resp.
5|I am using Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External Hard Drive which is very good.
5|It is very good having fast speed of transferring data
5|Its slim, light weight..Data transfer rate is also very good...
5|Seagate Backup plus slim 1TB External Drive is perfect for personal and office use.
3|Seagate backup plus, nice hard disc, with slim, good looking, hoving 3 year warrenty . i recommended to all.
5|this product is really useful in my daily life.i have a lot data in my computer , so now i can transfer my data to my portable hard disk and can take my data wherever i want.it is easy to carry and of great use to me
5|I bought it for extra storage space and o take my data i work with me. this is the best product i get in the market. It deserved 5 stars.
4|This is my first purchase with snapdeal and it offered really very low price as compared to others. Purely genuine and really nice at this price range. Others offer 5k+ for the same. Love the design and sleekness and very lightweight. I personally recommend this product from snapdeal.
4|I received the product on 10 Mar 15, it took 13 days to deliver the product. So far too good. Useful storage is 927 GB. It is sleek, compact, handy &amp; to be careful with handling.
5|I am using this product from last July. Good product, compact, fast data transfer. Highly recommended.
5|very small size like a phone, you can carry everywhere, high speed,compact, very nice product, i like that
4|Great product from Seagate ... Small, Slim and performance is good at usb3.0 port ..
5|Dis is my first external hard disk..and so far it's working like charm....quite gud transfer speed...
5|very compact and easy to use 1tb ehdd . excellent go for it ...
4|can't say much about it's durability but its a good piece of storage. Looks good from its make and doesn't seem hell bent on having connectivity issues like the last one i bought from Transcend 4 years ago! All in all, good to go if u r looking to carry around ur favourite TV shows anywhere u go!
5|It's nice product. It's very portable easy to carry..more of it very good in performance..good product,delivered in time..
5|ts slim and nice, perfect one. Was trying to find it from some time. It gave the solution to clear off lots of data from my Pc and gave the back up too.
5|I purchase first time external hard drive this is very good product and it support to my Pc As well as my LED TV. so if you are going to purchase first time external hard drive this is best product. if your Drive not supporting to LED TV contact me I will solve your problem. Thanks (but this is my 14 days experience)
5|It is a very good product. In this price range i think this one is the best..... It is small in size also... And special thnks to snapdeal for a very quick delivery.....
5|Product is good and attractive...... But its showing only 930 GB space as available.
5|Excellent product and delivered quickly. USB 2 and USB 3 supported External hard disk from Seagate is an wonderful product for backing up your valuable data.
4|Nice slim fast working device. Better than this ranged HDDs.
5|Quality and speed is good enough.................
5|Good product with great transfer rate ! Highly recommended !!
5|Best hard disk 1tb seagate good quality good price
4|Much better than toshiba canvio basics...in terms of speed nd quality...
5|It is Sterling quality, as a dictionary in home for referance, one should have a good quality of External Hard Drive for his/her personal backup.I recomand Seagate Hard Drive
4|Awesome transfer rate. Small sized beast. Go for it. GO GO GO!!!
5|It's running up and fine .. Very fast easy to use .... Slim .. Light weight .. Came up with 931 Gb that's quite good and looks stylish as well 10/10 go for it don't think ....
5|with seagate ultra compact external hard drive its easy to carry useful files whereever i go....high capacity of storage also allows me to enjoy favourite movies,songs and many more
4|USB cable is not USB to mini USB .. Very specific input in disk ... Needs this babe only cannot interchange , difficult to find if cable lost or damaged
5|Product is very good. Very light in weight. Packaging was good. Delivery of the product is very quick.
3|Worst handling by snapdeal. This hard disk is the best 1TB haddisk ,Another quality product from seagate.Although this product is 200-300 more in other eCommerce sites I recommend buying there.Package is also not good.Harddisk is working fine but contains some scraches on top and bottom.
4|Excellent Product. Read and Write Speed is fast. Extremely small compared to the smartphone. We can keep it in Pockets while travelling. Go for it.
5|They product was really good. It was delivered in good condition and was pushed beautifully. That...Thats f you need a good HDD.. I suggest you to buy this.
5|Very good HDD Look And Weight, Very good HDD Lookout And Weight-loss
5|Product is very nice in reasonable price. Slim in size &amp; performance is very goodgood, I am recommending this product. Thanks for faster delivery from snapdeal.
5|After looking for many external hard disks finalised Seagate 1TB backup plus slim external hard disk. The delivery was well informed n tracked. I woyld like suggest buyers to order the covercase as well for safety. Excellent experience.
3|Disappointing delivery by Snapdeal.I got my hard disk 4 days later than tentative date.I think Snapdeal is not good for non-metros. Hard disk is looks good and sturdy.But transfer speed is not that good (around 10 mbps).Maybe because I use Windows 7 home basic
5|snapdeal delivered the product on time, hd is very thin and its good looking metal finish along with excellent performance makes it the best. Go for it.
5|Got this on 13th July,, First thing I did was to register the product which was done successfully it has 3 year warranty registered with Seagate, Product working Fine over all happy... thank you Snap Deal.
5|it is a perfectly functioning hard drive. worth its price.
4|segate product wise good.only 937mb usable out of 1tb. snap deal supply wise nice.they supplied the product with airbubble packaging.few people only accept this type of packaging. frpm my point of view iam satisfied. thanks to snapdeal!!
5|Awesome products from seagate. This is an amazing product. I bought this to save my files as my pc was running out of space. Now my problem is solved and am very happy about this. The connectivity is very good and fast 3.0 interface. And file transfer is very fast.
5|Fantastic product and the cost is low in Snap deal when compared to other online vendors. The speed is too good and the product is very compatible.
4|Very slim ..pocket hard disk..easy to carry... 20 Mbps transfer rate
4|Satisfied withe device.. It is very small in size and less weight...
5|i like this product , and this product i use to last 5 year, i like so much this seagate 1tb external hard-drive
5|I got it recently,first look it is so attractive and lightweight,thin HDD. working also so good,this product is available at affordable price on Snapdeal.
5|Exlent Product..slim.. and also u will get 200gb onedrive storage
5|Good product, the best part is super fast delivery .my shipment received within 2days .so compact and light weight and portable. I recommend this product. No noise. I would say ultra portable. Can be kept inside upper pocket of shirt easily.
5|Nice one. It is easy to use and very fast. It is easy to carry its very light weight
5|I purchased Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1 TB External Hard Drive via snapdeal. I am totally satisfied with both the product as well as snapdeal that delivered the product. The care and the speed of snapdeal is something indeed... Look forward to my next purchase.
5|I like this HD due its faster data transfer and easy to use. Its a small and easy to handle in my pocket. I am using this HD with my Macbook
5|Seagate always maintained its product quality. Harddisk is gudluking , slim , Fast , light weight. Afterall it has 3yr warranty , so no need to worry
5|Love it. Slim and handy. Easy to carry and fit in pocket. No external power required. Just plug and play. Copied Very fast. Must have it for backup data.
4|The disk is light and compact full points for that. But just disappointed with the delivery service..took 10 days to deliver...that is too much...5 days wait is max..Also the drive had some scars on the top...first i thought it is a used or defective product but it got off later on wiping. Still have no clue where that came from. So a star less
5|great product. not happy with the packeging by snapdeal. it was not so good. but the product is original and working fine. you can go with it. it is light weight,small and beautiful. happy with the product. snapdeal must try pack the product more seriously. people pay for the product. they need safety . many of my friends are not happy with the packing of snapdeal product. thank u.
2|The product is good and getting the speed of 25 Mbps while copying. Worth a money invested.
5|Product is good and fast enough but less durable so handle with care. I also check for segate website for warranty and get conformation of 3 year warranty on this.
5|Good Quality, color,size &amp; speed
5|These hard disk usefull for my daily uses and the transfer speed was amazing...
3|Good product fast data transfer rate .Small portable.
5|Hey guys this is is beast. Must buy for every one. Small, slim and light weight.No heating effect. Grt speed. Small and stylish light which turns on when connected to PC.
5|Working nicely.Worth having one for data storage
5|Good product in good price.. Speed is too good.. Design is awesome..
5|Very good buy. This External HDD is easily detectable and readable by any laptops and media players / televisions. I have been using Seagate from long and is very reliable.
5|I had bought it for my wife for her backup and storing White papers for her research. She is very happy with Quick backup from her laptop. I would recommend it to everyone.
5|I purchased this hard disk to gift someone, and he really likes this product not only because of its Brand value, but its size also. It can easily be kept in Pocket. Thanks to snapdeal for providing this lovely gadget in my budget.
5|it is very good product.. easy to carry.. portable .. data transfer rate satisfactory .. overall it's good product.. deliver at time... thank u snapdeal for good product...
5|speed &amp; spr product @consessional price thank u vry mchhhhhhh
4|Its slim, convenient and has an easy setup but has limited advantages such as warranty and usage in Apple techs.
4|Ontime delivery slim 931gb space 30mb transfer rate and satisfied for first time lovers..seagate company good &amp; versatile than other ones...
4|i got nice product from snapdeal at nice discount.. overall product is good... only dwarback is it's taken 9 days to deliver. Coming to product nice quality,slim..Automatic backup of data is very good..
5|Nice n Portable. Cute n Sexy Easy to use n small in size
5|Nice product, good transfer rate, also looks good!!!
5|Really a nice hard disk with thin look and good copying speed. The price is also resonable which forced me to buy this hard disk.
4|Compact. Light weight. User friendly. Good finish
5|good working and speed are also better then wd
5|Seagate Back up Plus Slim 1 TB Portable External Hard Disk is elegant looking, simple to operate and easy to handle.
5|Great product to use easy backup. Full value of money
5|Nicely designed device, almost the size of a smartphone. Durable.
5|one of the best product in 1tb range. i got this product within 2 days of order..
5|Awesome product.......it works really fast with usb 3.0....great profuct by seagate..
5|Seagate product is always good in that backup plus product is simply super
5|Great product , fast speed small and slim
4|Good and very sleek in usage .handling data very huge and perfectly
5|Fresh Hardware with good condition . Also 03 year Warranty as per the terms and condition .
5|vey slim small and very good transfer rate
5|Very nice sleek external hard disk with 2 yr cloud storage, really nice.
5|According to be the Best Price and the Best Product available in the Market is this particular Hard Disk Seagate Backup Plus. VALUE FOR MONEY OFFER
4|working ok good product but slow speed. easy to use . i recommend this product.
3|Nice product but cloud storage is not giving some memory to that product...
5|I have been using this for the past one week initially copied 450 GB in single shot took 45 mins I didn't have heating or vibrating issues.
5|Nice quantity, very slim, Single LED indication, Good Speed
5|transferring speed is good 32mb/s and it also worked with my smart tv also.
5|It is very light and compact in size. Now I do not need to carry a laptop everywhere, it's my all data
5|Works as well as any external hard drive, but the size and thinness are unparalleled. This is my second Seagate external hard drive and I definitely recommend this product.
4|I ve got this HDD for backup uses only..Comes bundled with a software and its really small...
4|I am using it since from a week, it seems good product, trasfering data is quick and reliable,
5|aweosme harddisk in awesome price @ 4325 , even the shopkeper suggested to buy online as its cheaper here.....but i still dont know how my data is being backed up i searched in google but couldnt find it...
5|The small size makes it look awesome. The quality of seagate is unquestionable. They are the highest sellers.
5|It is a very gud product for using in your laptop and desktop also it is very slim and small and it is having extra specification backup from the net or mobile also thats why it is very gud i like it very much first time i am using this harddisk and then i am verry happy to use this because of it is very fast.........
4|the product is good but it doesn't give you a speed as discribed. it seems not to be life long product. but over all it is good product at this price. i am using it from about 20 days ago i can't say much about it's quality.
4|it is good to bye if you want a light weight, reliable and economical.. but not attractive and durable because cover is scratch-able easily ......
5|Received very fast within 2 days. i first registered online and than used once today. performance is very good. thanks to Courier GoJaVAS and Snap deal. Thankyou
5|The product delivery and quality and price are perfect, very happy that I selected snap deal to buy 1 TB edd
5|Great product with speed and it's slim look
4|VERY USEFUL AND SPEED IS ALSO GOOD. PRODUCT WORTH ITS PRICE.
5|HDD reached on time and it's very slim as expected
4|good product.checked my warranty in seagate and its perfrect.
5|Seagate Backup Plus slim is an excellent product especially for mac users... It's anyway stylish in looks too.
5|Slimer than wd drives. Looks sexy. But cost little more but its ok.
5|Best product fast storage slim design awesome product good model
5|Excellent product at this rate,easy to use,nice looking slim body,working with both TV and laptop,I am happy with this devise.I am not face any problems with this device ,light weighted easy to use,excellent masterpiece product of Seagate.this is my first hard disc. Good expierence to use this product
4|The HD is nice and better compared to other HDs i have seen and have read/write speed as stated on the product.
5|Simply a perfect storage device. Excellent service. I would say consider as ur buying option
5|seagate backup plus slim portable drive is very good. i use windows, Linux and Android os from USB 3.0. snapdeal product pack is good.
5|Its Good Looking and Slim, Easy to carry Backup speed also good
5|it's really very nice product. it reached in just 3 days. 40 mbps speed.
4|Service has been excellent. Delivery was attempted even on Sunday. However, I received it at offiec on Monday. This was my first experience with SD and I was little apprehensive about quality of the product.i hope the HD will work to my satisfaction in future. Thank you
4|This is a slim &amp; light hard drive. The drive came in its original packaging &amp; the vendor packaging was also satisfactory. In sum, I am happy about this purchase.
5|Made a lot of research on internet about buying an external hard disk that would be useful and long lasting for me. Read comments and reviews about many external hard disk of different companies but found seagate external hard disk comments valuable and heart satisfying. So finally I decided to buy it from snapdeal at a reasonable price.
5|I am happy with this hard disk...i think it may be provided ur needed space...&amp; with the USB 3.0 the experience was amazing...Thanks Seagate to provide this wonderful hard disk with low cost...
4|I am happy owner of Seagate Back up Plus Slim 1TB External HD. I woudl surely recommend it to a friend.
5|This one is the perfect one for a personal use. Hard enough to keep your data secure. I have bought it a few months back. Working awesome for then.
5|very good product.and transfer and copying files is very fast and very flexiable usb cable,and i would like thanks to snapdeal.com.
5|Very good service by SD and 100% genuine product. Hard drive is amazingly fast. A must have product.
5|I buying this product. This is running wonderfully and I satisfy for the delivery. Well packed and Speed is Superb. Thanks For Snapdeal Team.
4|Speed is very good and light weight
5|Got new piece. Fits in pocket.data cable is small.
5|Just perfect for backup your data.
5|very compact highest speed upto 90mbps
5|its real good for external backup and storage
5|awesome performance with usb 3.0
5|Very good , fast data transfer
4|usb cable is too short.remaing all is very good.it is used for mac os also
5|BACKUP PLUS VERY THIN AND FASTER GOOD HDD
5|it is a good hdd, performance is good, seagate software is also good which is provided by seagate. I would like to prefer this
5|Its the best hdd available in the market. the only demerit is that only 931GB is available for use.
5|Transfer speed very good, handy
4|good backup storage device
4|Best for personal backup data
5|Pocket size drive....nice product..!
5|very slim and fits in pocket very easily. light in weight and can carry any time anywhere. metal like finish gives rich look. transferring the files gets easier and faster. Excellent product for the given price.
3|good in work slim in size but not worked with extension usb
5|its looks better with faster performance than my previous expansion hdd also by7 seagate
5|Perfect speed and performance
5|Seagate Backup Plus Slim 1TB External is doing excellent work
5|its usb 3.0 best speed
5|esily istall and use and reliable.speed is aprox 35mbps
5|first i see this type of packing through snapdeal It's really good very thin compare to WD also very good data transfer speed....
5|The overall look, performance, it's sleek design is excellent. Handy, potable and easy to deal with. It's like having a 5 inch display smartphone in pocket. Loving it.
5|Good for every purpose. True value for money
5|Seagate 1TB Backup Plus slim is looking very slim, and light Weight. Works very nice... Happy with Snapdeal Service.
5|No words to tell look is great, very handy and have 3 years warranty so no worries about product just go for it
5|very slim, small in size, great for travelling. Seagate brand, good service centre. I have used seagate before, and I will never hesitate to use it over and over again.
5|Excellent product and ontime delivery . Using since a month. Has excellent transfer speed and light weight finish. Cheers to segate and snapdeal for such an excellent product.
5|This is very good portable hdd and i am using since 6 month.
4|very handy and stylish product with good storage scheme
3|The product is good and easy to back up files from computers and mobile ,but you cannot backup directly from mobiles...
5|Nice product , using fast transfer I like this
5|good external hardisk 730 gb out of box...
5|Very nice product. Fast transfer. Portable and easy to use.
5|This product is so good in looks and in the performance. Amazing product in small packet.
5|good hard disc. simple design compact and weightless its amount become lower during offers and wait for those offers and give minimum amount
5|Its very nice for personal use.. Comes with 3 years seagate warrenty.. very easy to hold.. light weight..
5|I was waiting to buy an external HDD for a long time. Finally after reviewing many I selected this one. One of my best decisions and purchases.
5|very sexy nd slim.. if ur looking for a sexy hard drive dz iz perfect....
5|Nice to work on.......faster transfer of files......
5|Though it took four to five days to deliver order , but it was in good condition . As soon as we received it , we registered the product with Seagate so that to check warranty status and it was for three years
4|The hard drive is slim, portable and has this backup software of seagate which was not available with earlier hard drives of seagate. Would make sense to order for a pouch along with the hard disk
5|VERY GOOD, HANDY HDD WITH SUPERB SPEED. MUST BUY.. SNAPDEAL SERVICE ROCKS.
4|The condition of the product is good. and it exactly fulfill my needs. super quality by seagate. The best price is provided by the SNAPDEAL only. I bought it for 4100/- only. without a second opinion go for it...!!!
4|This External hard disk is the best I have used. I'm impressed by its performance. The form factor is really sleek and simple. It has a matte finish . This is one long lasting product.
5|i never imagined it would be so small and compact. it can literally be carried in your shirt pocket. the size is like a pocket phone book.
4|Am happy with product it has one click software which helps me backup my files n its slim n has hard metal case :)
5|Seagate at its best...I recommend it to everyone qho want to buy a hdd.
5|You can use it for for data store. It can be use with multipurpose way. Best quality
4|Seagate is the best company in external hard disks..This hard disk was slim , stylish, easily maintainable. The software given for backup plus is of no use for me...Once i had installed in my PC it just hanged, after that it became slow..So i had removed that software.
4|this is a good item ,its storage very quickly.
5|Seagate so hard disk is really very good..compact, light weight, easy to carry.. . I just like it... Very good choice to buy
4|This is what I call a perfect hard disk. Super stylish &amp; portable. Speed is like rocket. Go for it.
5|I like size its easy to carry
5|very nice hard disk portable good speed....total awesm happy to have it
5|Very Nice Product, Original and worthy to buy.
5|Great Product , Great Product, very slim, good material faster speed
5|very awesome product,compact,best in this price.go for it
5|I bought this product a couple of months ago. I started using this product from very first day, i never faced difficulties. I mostly liked the slim design, speed. Now i even connect to my TV to watch movies all the day. Very good and money worth product.
4|Buying worthy...speed also good...
4|It is slim very small of 4 inch mobile size. Fast and efficient. Good buy.
5|Simply, a good one with in the price and a best deal. Good performance and I am very much satisfied
5|Nice product, simple sturd Am happyy compact lightweight.
4|Well, I purchased first time and believe me this external hard drive is very good than my expectation. Very slim, fast and easy to use. I recommend this product to everyone. Must purchase
5|I am very much satisfied to see the product. Good speed &amp; cover, no noise with lowest rate compare to other online shopping web. Thank snapdeal. Only proble was that more than two week time for order to delivery.
5|Super product for personal and in business use.light weight and durable quality made it awesome. Thanks to snapdeal for giving Such a product.
5|Good condition, good packing
5|Delivery happened well in advance great job by SD
5|It is good as per expectations The product quality is nice
5|super,no problem. ried/writ 102mbps. super I love this products
5|Seagate is the name behind the quality and dedicated technology. using it from last month. and the speed is awesome..........
5|This Hard disk is too good by performance. You can surely buy it for your personal use.
4|1tb in this range is really good.. working is also good. its really slim and easy to use.
5|Received on time, the Hard Drive is slim and gives you awesome feeling when you hold it. Very nice product. A must buy!
5|Compact , slim , durable .... I'm Loving it ... Must Buy For Those Who Don't care about changing the interface ( USB 3.0 or Thunderbolt etc. )
5|This hard Disk Compact, Lightweight and very handy. Reliable because its a Seagate product.
4|NIce product for its price .. gooe r/w speed and slim look... just love it
4|am Love it. GREAT external hard drive. Easy to use!
4|Nice Product &amp; performance is also good...just go for it...
4|Everything is gud..except the cable it is not enough long to use.
5|I ordered this product for my personal use now 3 months over product having best quality and performance I like it very much. Thanks to snap deal.
4|It is a good product. One of the advantages of this product is the availability of cloud space and back up facility.
4|Its very easy to use, very slim and fast uploading data due to USB 3.0.I got this product in less price.
5|Hard Drive is very Slim and Handy with USB 3 interface.
5|LIGHT WEIGHT &amp; SLIP EXTERNAL HARD DRIVE
5|Easy to use store up to 956GB data!!!
5|a orignal product eilgble to use with warranty no problem in any thing easy to use any were you want
5|After you have the External Hard Drive you need not to buy too many pen drives. It is very sleek in design and fits in the pocket. The product is value for money.
5|Best product in external HDD Safe n quality product Most of the product have Problem is the criteria but this is best product ever used
5|The first thing I liked about this is it's body. It is very slim and light weight. It is very compact and will easily fit in pocket.
5|it is as slim, trim and also very good to look at and its performance is just its maker made it, very charming.
5|Yes, we can describe this Seagate prduct with these three words. I was looking for light weight portable Hard disk and this was a perfect match for my requirements. The quality of the product delivered was good. Thubs Up!!
5|Product is really nice and no formatting was required for a Mac book which was a smooth start. Snap deal ordering and delivery was also very easy as compared to other platforms.
4|another quality product from Seagate. also great deal on the product at Snapdeal
5|Got good quality product with best price in just. 2 days. Good service. Your applications are mind blowing. Even peak time web responses were fast. Thank you snap deal and team keep up good work .
5|All electronic items require a little bit care Nice product and good service
5|its working fine....In compare to other its better.......
5|I got a great nice and a worth quality product from snap deal thank u admins
5|Excellent condition, cheapest rate among all online and offline.Delivery within promised date
5|sleek design good looks perfect for a small organisation or personal value for money
5|It is extremly superb!! Match my expectations!! Got it only in 3970!! Great deal!! The design is great and slim I highly recommended to go for it!!
4|Seagate has been durable brand in storage devices for a long time Its very compact &amp; light
3|Working gud &amp; transfer rate r also gud.&amp; also registered on seagate aite
5|slim and light weight
4|This is a perfect harddisk for backup and personal use. Very fast and compact.
5|Excellent performance and very handy. Satisfied with the order. Delivered very next day.
5|Its an amazing awesome product thats ever buy in my life.love you snapdeal we have a best wishes for your growth and keep shipping like that with great crackers deal.
4|this item is good but snapdeal price determining policy is not good . when i bought this harddisk . the next day its price was reduced by 400 rupees
5|Product is good. Working as expected. Delivery time was a bit more but bearable.
5|Snapdeal is always the best.The offer are great and the important thing is the price is the lowest compared to different sites.
3|The product is handy and very low weight. But it vibrates when it is in use and become hot slightly. Anyway it is too good to use. But is very unfortunate that it takes long time for delivery when you buy the product from Snapdeal.I received the product after 15 days, 5 days more than the estimated delivery date.
5|slim light portable speed awesome value for money
4|compact size.good user interface.
4|Price of this hard disk is reliable in comparison of flipkart &amp; other websites.this is working fine &amp; have a sexy look.Dear,Snapdeal your service is plus point to buy this product bcz I got this product under 3-4 days after order.Don't think about it just go for it . .?
5|PERFORMANCE OF THE PRODUCT IS HIGHLY APPRECIABLE. I'LL RECOMEND FOR THIS PRODUCT ALWAYS. SNAPDEAL'S PERFORMANCE IS ALSO GOOD.
4|speed was more compared to old one
5|Perfect size fit to ur pocket nice I like it
5|Its a good external drive..and compatible to use.
4|Nicely packed and handy product with 3 yrs warranty. Good
5|Good harddisk backup function is good. Best company
5|WORKING WELL. COMPATIBLE WITH WINDOWS 8.1. SMALL SIZE.
5|Very good drive from seagate. Slim and good looking. No heating issue.
4|Good Performance Quality Product
5|Good and satisfactory performance
5|Elegant look &amp; good performance
5|good performance , as per the expectation
4|This is one of the best HDD durable ,slim and from a gr8 brand
5|You Can't Get Better Hard Disk Than This In This Price Range . Slim, Light Weight, Faster
4|This harddisk is worth of money spent.. Speed is also good
4|A compact drive, fully Satisfied with the product...
5|this is my second HDD and this one is truely nice... best product.
4|great copying speed........ good looking...... low cost.....
5|Feel happy with the service. I got my order very fast and the product is genuine
5|So slim! So fast! So handy! Love the hdd. Couldn't be any better. Kudos seagate. Awesome delivery by snapdea.
5|Best product by Seagate. Very less weight and small dimensions. Work without any noises. But packing wasn't good enough.
5|I've compared this product on many other sites I found less price than others or the delivery time is less product quality is great.
4|It is good stuff for your personal and professional usage. Storage capacity is quite good. Price is unbeatable. But delivery time is lengthy, need to look into it by supplier and snapdeal. Got my product after 3-4 days from order date.
5|Thanks snap deal. Product quality is excellent. Packing is good. Will give 5/5 for the product and Snap deal.
4|Nice product. Very successfully delivered within 7 days, but the transfer speed is quite dissapointing. Very rarely gives above 35mb/s
4|superb. delivered two days in advance of assured delivery date. I have copies 140 GB of photos and videos to the back up slim. works well.
4|Its nice hard drive superb perfect delivery on time with due care... thanks
5|Looks great Works fast A thousand GB And its from Seagate There's nothing more I wish for..
4|Didn't got the speed as it was expected
5|Small size makes it very portable with trust of Seagate.
5|Good product. Faster than my old Tranzend external drive. Go for it.
4|I am happy to have this Hard disk, It is in budget and easy to carry when travel. You can store all your fav songs movies and all the private data ;)
5|The Drive is very good and it has given me no problem at all
5|just love it...it's fast n easy to backup
5|very nice... supports on usb 2.0
5|* Slim &amp; light * Best price at snapdeal * Nice packaging * High Speed USB 3.0
4|got delivered in 6 days.Happy with the product.but transfer speed is not as expected.
5|Very good product. Slim as the name says and light weight.Quickest delivery.
4|very nice product i love this light weight product deliverd in less than 24 hours.
5|Thanking to snapdeal for selling this awesome product of seagate its backup facelity is spellbound when i opened the box i realise that big gaint in a small box
5|True value for money. Worth buying product. Best product at lowest price and even supplier service is also excellent.
5|got seagate 1 TB external hard drive on best price. thank you snapdeal for this best price and for quick delivery. thank you
4|Satisfied with product, but not with package and should improve delivery time, ordered on Monday I received on Saturday,, if we compared with other sites price is less in snapdeal, packaging is bad single layered packaging. Except packaging everything else is fine.
5|Awesome product that everyone should have..easy to carry and ultimate source of memory..just loved it..
5|Product is very good at low rate. Very easy to use and is of best quality
5|super working best prices the market good product and very slim product
5|Good .... Satisfied with the service
5|happy using it. good quality, no problem even after 1 year of purchase. it was a smart purchase for me.
5|Its good .I got this with best price.i will recommend friends to purchase products via snaodeal.
5|Other quality product from seagate. Very compact and slim. Does the job perfectly.
5|Great product.. I would surely recommend it to others..
4|Nice Genuine Product but was expecting the Product from Thailand instead of China.
5|nice product .. worth its cheap than market price
5|Slim &amp; Beauty to use... No noise also.. No Over heat also.. Good Better Best..
5|Nicely packed and satisfactory product.... Highly recommended ?
5|Best product I have satisfied this product I am recommended this product many friends
5|Very satisfying experience. The payment options are also very convenient and flexible as we had several options to pay.
4|Quick deivery..good product..reliable price..hoping not for replacement prob.
5|cheapest price by SD in comparison to other sites.Deliveres in elegant and shock proof packaging.
5|Happy with the reasonably priced purchase. The product is of excellent quality
5|Best item in good condition
4|Go for it. Its worth buying and amazing value for money.
5|Nice one thanks for delivered in time. Its a best product for external hdd.
5|This Product is really good not only quality but also price. Other than snapdeal this product's rate is high. Awesome speed.
4|Good and as expected. Works perfectly fine and packaging is good! Drawback:late delivery!
4|I came to know about the product from this website only. The brand is quite famous.So far the performance is good and presently dont have any problem with the product.
5|Received as per expectation, Item is new &amp; origional box packing having full warranty
1|average product... very slow transfer
4|Compact design.....awsum product. Delievered before the given date hapy wid the service
5|excellent...pure original product.. happy to buy it : )
5|good packing with warranty in india as well... no problem happy with it
5|The hard is ok.anybody can think of it.the service is perfect.I was a bit doubtful about the genune product.thank god,I got the product at cheap price.
5|I liked it for its size and colour and very easy to handel
5|PERFECT EXTERNAL HDD AT VERY MUCH COMPETITIVE PRICE THAN OTHER ONLINE WEB SITES. HAPPY TO PURCHASE ONLINE VIA SNAPDEAL.
5|Nice product. Sleek,slim,handy and comfortable to keep/carry/handle and use. Durability &amp; reliability yet to find out. Hope to be satisfactory on that account also. Presently happy to have it at this price.
5|Product in good quality, and nicely packaged. compare to others price also low.
5|i was searching this product on various site...and i found it was cheaper here...so i had a doubt that whether it would be good for buying or not.....after buying this product....i was extremely happy that it was 100% genuine!!!!!!!!!dont hesitate while buying
5|Best in class service of flipkart best packaging before time delivery just 990gb of space nut all in all great !!
5|Superb transfer speed .... Delivered in 3-4 days... Genuine product
5|Best external hdd, i ever had. very beautoful and slim product no heat problem and any other.
5|Seagate offers best in class storage solution
4|This is working fine so far, but there should be one bag along with the hard drive.
5|Good colour &amp; performance is also good
5|It's a good for who have found of extra storage.
5|good segate hdd parfomens 3.0
4|Transfer rate is good.
5|very good product, looking realy smart, good performance
4|Nice Product It is slim and light weight.
5|Awesome TB. Most trusted brand.
5|Really good product with sleek design and fast performance
5|Ok good product noproblams but how to backup my files?
5|Product is nice easy to use so much relaible n easy to carry n so light weight.
5|Very Usefull For Data Protection,I Use For My IMP Files To Be Get Deleted.
4|Metaal is nice. Light weight
5|Its awesome ..The speed
5|i am very happy after use the drive...
5|Wonderful storage devise.
5|That very good in speed..and have not any problem..
4|Nice sleek &amp; light weight product from Seagate.
5|Its very good hard drive and handy.
5|Good as per described &amp; the product was fulfilled
4|This external hdd is very useful for me
5|Great product and great copying speed
5|Seagate Exteral Backup plus I recd is excelent and appreciate the seller
4|very useful seagate backup plus
5|It is a compact and easy to use storage device. Bought from snap deal below the market price.
4|This is very good slim external hard drive.
4|The hard drive is worth for money we paid.
4|It is a good product till date and i can say every on to prefer this hdd over others
5|It's is Very Good Product. Slim , Lightweight , Finishing all are very Good. Reccomended.
5|Very nice looking and light weighted and easy to use.
5|All in all gud, but speed was not as expected
5|I am using this product for more than 6 months. This is just awesome! no negative points. Do not think again and buy the product if you are planning to buy an external hard drive!
5|The Best Service and the device or HDD is fun to use!
5|Its my first hard drive i was thrilled after buying this product. Because everthing was perfect and on time . Suberb work snapdeal love u.Your upadate always bring new thing!!
5|I am very happy to get this from snapdeal. And I got the 10% cash back also. Very nice and genuine product. I like it very much. Thank you each and every one of the SD team.
5|slim n small... so compact, no sound at all. worth every penny spent. satisfied beyond limits.
3|The product is good. However, the delivery by snapdeal was delayed by more than a week. The product that i booked was cancelled after about 6 days and a new order was placed by snapdeal fr the same product but frn diff seller. Though i got it al same cost, however, the delivery was delayed effectivey by a week.
4|Happy with speed &amp; efficiency of order delivery. Good job! And please don't get slack now.
5|its a good product Seagate And seagate service is very good and very very important SNAPDEAL is Superb online Store i like it so much Thank you SD
5|good quality product , very quick &amp; fast service with tracking massage also .
4|I put order on 8th dec but I got it today on 25th dec i.e it took about 17 days. The most amazing thing is that it reached to kolkata on 13 and it took 10 days to further connect from kolkata to my place i.e guwahati which I had never seen till now. So, I would like to suggest to properly choose the sellar before placing an order otherwise you may have to face the worst experience about delivery of the product.
5|Original and best storage space. 1TB is quite enough for personal record keeping. Snapdeal service was awesome.
5|Very compact drive.
5|performance is good
5|another quality product from Seagate. also great deal on the product at Snapdeal
5|It's just so fast working compared to other brand products.. so easily operatable n easy to carry in pocket just so good to have it.. I'm Happy with the product I got
5|i cant believe it because the hard disk is working properly the size of the hard disk is very slim
5|This is my first external hard drive, and it's running very well. I am very lucky to have such product.
5|good performance
5|Slim Easy to use. Good looking Ur data is safe.
4|Speed is kinda okay.
5|Speed was too good
5|good storage unit
4|Performance is good
5|Excellent supplier. Delivered ahead of schedule. Genuine item received as ordered. will recommend for this supplier in future.
5|This is slim and cheaper offer given by snapdeal. I started using it and no issues as of now.
4|The product, tried limitedly, seems to be good.
5|Excellent performance of hard disc I have purchased from snapdeal,i like to deal again and again from this site love this site.
5|Good product at this price range so thank you snapdeal
5|excellent Service . product received in good condition . My first on line shopping experience was good
5|Amazing product amazing courier service response by snapdeal and price are good.must buying product.price of the product is the lowest compare to other e-commerce site
5|Packing was good nd promptness in delivery is well maintained and coming to d product it was awesome we can trust this product over all 10 for 10 marks for snapdeal...
5|This hard disk very helpfull for me bring hard disk on me and also your service is very great because you give me this hard disk before time. Thank you.
5|got my EHD and it was perfect.. and speedy delivery.. thanks to SD :) kudos
5|PRODUCT WAS VERY GOOD QUALITY, THE DELIVERY TIME IS FAST, SO PRODUCT QUALITY IS VERY GOOD, THE PACKING METHOD IS GOOD, THEN OVERALL ARE GOOD IN SNAP DEALS AND ALSO THE COST ARE VERY LESS COMPARE OTHERS.
5|Very Good &amp; Useful Product Thanks Sanpdeal
4|There is no such issue of unhappy either with product or seller...
4|The seagaye HD was in good condition and sealed pack
4|Nice product nd price also genuine on snapdeal
5|I fully recommend this product... I am using this and its fantastic.
5|Working super fast. Thankfully to clipart ....happyyyy
5|Trust worthy... And also money saving product
4|Product work good condition in future. We pray for our records please made a product as per the spc.
4|The product is good and i liked it..the product external plastic cover is durable
5|Good condition. .. packing is good... no anty complaints. ..
4|This product good and conditions is sam to sam retail show room i am every time snapdel purchase good response
5|Nice deal and good product. Thanks to snap deal
5|excellent working condition thanksto snap deal
5|perfect item. i am satisfied for this product.
4|It is slim and good. I recommend to buy.
5|Good people this product supplyers not damage this itam
5|Very Good, i happy this product.........................................
5|Nice External Hard Disk and Working Great..
4|first time i purchased from snap deal good product...... worth to buy
5|Thanks to Snap Deal for offering a good product at a very reasonable price.
5|I would love to recommend this product to anybody.
5|Looks awesome and its so small than the other segatte products. Must buy anyways.
4|Delivered properly in good condition and works well too so far .
4|I really like the way the product was packed in order to ensure its safety. Operates very fast.
4|Good Product .This is very useful for me.
5|Nice brand and device. Very satisfied to have Seagate External Hard Disk.
5|VERY HAPPY WITH IT. VERY GOOD PRICE MUCH LESS THAN ANY OTHER DEALER
5|Easy to use must have this , I got this in a very well packaging. So try this out you must be happy receiving this. I usually never rate any product. But as this is gud so give it a try.
5|Slim and nice looking..... working perfect :)
5|Good product and quvelaty is noce and iam suggesting to other people buy
4|Product z good ,easy to use,delivering time was also good but this z not come wid password protected..i think wd ultra z better from this..
5|Snapdeal purchase is really very convenient - you get the best deal - and this product is a great accessory - sturdy and easy to use
5|nice to get the value product at premium price...
5|Nice, well packed and handover was genuine part
5|Very very slim attractive design. I personally recommend this for everyone.
5|The product is easy to use and reliable Value for money!
5|Very compact,light &amp; easy to carry Works Perfect. ...Thank You
5|As far as the quality of the seagate products is concerned, they are always best.. But the price was very high.
5|Fast delevery.........Working with out any issues till now
4|Its working smoothly. worth to buy great design
5|good condition geniune product wrap with plastic for protect from rain
5|very nice product,perfect look and slim.
4|good At working we are happy to use it thanks for seagate
4|The product is as described and Original. Price in comparison to other brands of same capacity is little high .However the price does not matter if you are going for a specific brand.
5|Nice Product. Really Slim. Worth buying.
5|The product is just as mentioned in the description, it works perfectly and I got it for a very good price.
5|It is a good Product,.Fully Hazzle free, user friendly, &amp; a worthbuy one.
5|Perfect device.Works as promised. I would recommend this to others.
4|My expectation was fulfilled. Hard disk cover was not supplied with product.
5|Fast delivery n excellent quality at lowest price. authenticate products. I am a big fan of snap deal products. In future I will always prefer snap deal.
5|Good packaging and fast delivery. Functions as expected. Nothing to disappoint. Keep up the good work!
5|Its Very Good &amp; Easy to get. The Service is excellent &amp; I Recommend this Product
5|I would recommend this to others too
5|after long search online, i got this external hd, using it from last 10 months and its working great.. just go for it..
4|Hi, First of all I congratulate you SNAPDEAL to be a part of my 1st online shopping experience. Your staff is working nicely to fit my requirement. The price line is also reasonable, so it was a good deal. Lastly, I could say that it could become the perfect deal if you people could deliver it faster (at least 3 to 4 days) without the option of "express buy". Thanks &amp; regards, Kushal Basu
5|Very nice n reliable product, just go for it. No issues yet, working properly.
4|This product is simply best and really nice to use as usualas promised in its features on advertisement it meets all its features.
5|Got delivery of the product within 7 days. No issues with product. Good Packing. Invoice enclosed for warranty.
4|Best and affordable price. ! Suggest to others to buy in Snapdeal. Got the product before due date.:)
5|This is owsome product and worth to mention.....
5|Good product.easy used is heard disk On computer.
5|Recieved the item in good condition and on time. Service was superb. It looks very nice.
4|Seagate 1 TB External Hard Disk is nice. Bought in Snapdeal offer product is worth the money.
4|It's awesome product. It is very nice looking and also comfortable.
5|Original Product in good condition at best and competitive price.
5|Definitely one should go for it... Cheap rate ... Nice quality.. Easy using.. I would recommend it...
4|The product is absolutely good &amp; the price is even great in comparison to the market value...
5|The product is nice and is a perfect useful item to store memorable documents, events, pictures etc. Best item I ever bought for the best price.
5|Nicely packed. compact and works perfectly fine. Seagate is dependable brand. Go for it
5|Nice product from Seagate; Slim and beautiful. Well packed and delivdred on time by the seller.Overall its excellent.
4|This is really nice. Small, compact and reliable.
4|Service is good, took sometime to reach but the price n product quality is super.
4|Good one nice
5|It's slim and beautiful. Got it at a very good price. Very happy with the product. Got It in a good condition and on time.
5|Nice experience overall ! Prompt delivery ! Nice package ! Reasonable shipping time !
5|Extremely satisfied by the product delivery and packaging. For the first time, I have got this product within two working days without any fast delivery options imposed on. Perfect in look. And nothing to say about the product because its the 3rd time I am buying it for my friends. I will go for Snapdeal every time I buy something at the lowest price.
5|very nice to use seagate backup plus thanks snapdeal for better service
4|Yes the product is very good and I am fully satisfied with your delivery and product thank you for your efficiency
5|I don't prefer to buy goods online, although in case of emergency I bought this. And it got delivered immediately after 2 days. I was surprised and happy to see the product, it was better than it was shown. Thank you guys. AT
5|product was deliverd in one day and the hard disk is perfect for travelling due to its size
5|Its a great product. fast data transfer. good support. I liked the service and timely delivery from snapdeal. strongly recommend it.
5|Best Hdd I ever Had from snapdeal is best for hardisk
5|High Speed File Tranfermation
5|Link point at the HD appears to be softer than that at HD for 500GB.
5|i have pruchase hdd seagate buck up plus in snapdeal
4|Pocket size easyto travel
5|Fully secured data......easy to carry and exces.......user friendly
5|THIS MEMORY DEVICE HAS HELPED ME A LOT IN STORING MY DATASD WHICH I NEVER THOUGHT TO COLLECT EVEN.....
5|this product is "wow" to use... but sad to say snap deal took almost 27 days to deliver me the product. its really crazy. When called the call center it takes me to some good music and get hanged and if call picked by employ at call center say it is in process and will be delivered soon and they do not have any contact number of cargo guy who would be delivering me. SAD. LATER I MY SELF REALISED IT GOT DISPACHED FROM JAMMU, sure it will take time to reach southern part of India. But still I say snap deal need to work out to deliver its service fast rather than having its office some where which do not have any interlink with other office.
5|very genuine product.... Thank u SD
4|My experience with Snapdeal on purchase of Seagate External Hard-disk : Snapdeal Service : ***** Snapdeal Delivery : **** Snapdeal Ease of purchase : **** Product performance : ****** Good deal + Good service + Good product = Buy @ snapdeal
3|Snap deal gives a very genuine products..gives delivery within specified time.Trust worthy company.
5|Watch is as it is shown in pictur. quality is very good. And delivery at ib time thanks
5|nice services and very good and be faster then any other company
5|BEST PRODUCT I HAD EVER SEEN. PACKING IS VERY GOOD AND IT IS VERY SMALL AND SLIM HARDDISK.
5|I am very happy with the quality of the product and also on time delivery of the same
5|I wanted a hard disk from long time and was looking at options and the best price. Snapdeal provided me with the best option at an amazing price.. The price was much less than the prices quoted in other websites.
5|i have purchaced your product and product quality is very good .your services &amp; delivery is also good. thak you.
5|Very Satisfied including Delivery. Prefer to have model options for choice during selection.
4|best external hard disk I have came across. Well build, compact and really fast. Would recommend it to everyone!
5|I was happy n ThE product was proper God job done by ur exlusive
4|Its a good deal to have... Very slim and compact.. Easy to carry.. N a fine product from seagate..
5|on time delivery , price is also good to compare with other
2|Product which we received is a good product. But delivery too much delayed. No correspondence from both delhivery and Snapdeal for delay and there is no contact no. for the courier also. I have tried the outstation no. which given in their website. The Customer care of Delhivery is not responsible one. Three times they have disconnected my call after waiting for 3 mins. Customer care person also doesn't know their local branch No. After searching in website I have traced local branch No. and we called the courier and we collect it from the branch. The courier kept on the courier office for three days without any intimation to us. I will recommend this product. But if once again snapdeal use delhivery courier or any other irresponsible courier to send orders I won't come again to snapdeal.
4|Does not give speed as per advertised by seagate not even 50% of it. I can blame seagate not snapdeal for this.
5|This HDD ordered from Snapdeal.Good product, at lowest price.
4|product is good at reasonable cost. Only delivery time is more with respect to other companies.
5|i have ordered in snapdeal.. good delivery and good product to use. this my first external disk. wow! good experience after buying it . quality is good and i recommend you to buy without hesitation..
5|It's always a pleasure purchasing things from snapdeal. All authentic products with warranty A establishment you can reply upon.
5|Does its in and no complaints and it is working fine and also online warrantee registration was also smooth.
4|it is the best product with effective price... only not satisfied from dilivery time it took 7 days to come and plus the packing was not satisfying at all..... but at the end the product is best by every mean...!!!!!!
3|I was searching for a good deal and i got one on snapdeal here. This product is good value for the money that i paid for it.
5|Product is good
4|really slim hard drive. good deal from snapdeal, but delivery should be faster. i bought it for viewing movies on tv.
5|It is so best .so I thanxs for snepdeal for fast home delivery. I want to a new shopping by snepdeal in some tims
4|good. Neatly packed with airbags and a brand new one :) and delivery was fast too... got it within 4 days
5|it is really great product to purchase.I liked it.
5|Nice product. Handy and compatible. Smooth shopping experience and value for money
4|Very good. Slim and sleek. Very handy, with huge volume of stotage.
5|2 good for its price, very handy and easily accessible.
4|Nice Product thats it
5|Good looking, easy to use,fast working. Thanku snap deal thanku segate.
5|Delivered on time, Worth of money !!!!!!!!
5|very good look plus slim dimensions and good performence
5|Go for it without thinking..... Worth purchase
4|Very good product must buy. Easy to carry.
5|totally worth it. awwwssoommeee product..
5|very happy with the product. and its price is very low
5|It has more space and secure device. It black and shiny.
4|Really satisfied with this product
5|Just asm.Like it very much.Good product.OK
5|best product , very fast delavery , thanku for sanpdeal
5|Proudct is very good and Delevery Also good and good packing
5|Hi All, I have been using this product from 17 Jan 2015. Its a fantastic product. Very compact , easy to use . Could not find any faults. I recommend to everyone.
3|SBI debit card offers were very bad on 29/30 th sep, shouldn't accept with master/visa cards, my friends &amp; me also having maestro cards but not cvv code card. I think that offer useful for 1 to 2% customers.
5|Best Deal .................................................................................................
5|Cool one.. Arrived in just 2 days.. Bingo
4|Great to have that product
5|It's a wonderful product.working so smoothly.
5|Nice product we can use it. thanks snapdeal
5|I got my product, what they told 9 days early. product was good.
5|gud one i love it so much. ....................................................
5|Nice product and easy to back up procedure
4|good product am using with mac i got it at a very good price compared to other sites
5|best price .
5|Before date reached good shipping.........
4|Its a Good Product and i been using for a while
4|Seagate back plus is a good option to buy it.
3|there is no back up option folder in hd and no details in user manual
5|Nice hard disk for useing laptop and other store date i like it
5|DELIVERED IN COMMITTED TIME WE ARE USING THIS PRODUCT IT IS GOOD.............................. THANK YOU
5|Product is very good . Snap deal is doing well . I got shipment in just a after booking.
5|I bought 2 hard disks. Seagate hard disks are better than other
4|Product and price both are good
4|Very good product in low price i recoment my frined
5|No comment on that because it really very gud in use I think it is perfect.
5|this is the perfect product. easy to use. slimmest hard disk on the market. literally fits anywhere. and doesnt heat up or slow down like the others
3|Good, But not in password protection etc.
4|Well , i have not used the product yet, but i am sure it will be what i need.
5|Best product. ...............................................................................................................................................................................................
5|excellent and i could use it for both windows and mac
5|Product delivered on time with nice packing in good condition.... overall it was Excellent product at excellent price...
5|really an awesome product from seagate .... n snapdeal made it a right way to us get the preffered product to the customer who r in fr it .... packaging was awesome ... safety n product awesome...
5|Seagate as a manufacturer.. Great product, super light and portable. Snapdeal as a provider - Quick on delivery with safe hands..!!
4|Its working Super. nice product. Very slim and good packing also.
5|The product was good as it is branded bt the price of snapdeal was too cheap which attracted me to purchase it
4|Very quick delivery. Also Disc performance is fast.
4|Good service. The product is robust and value for money. it is cheaper than the market price and also other competitors of online shopping. Thank you snapdeal
5|Seagate very nice.
5|Order system and Dispatch system was perfect i happy with the service provided
5|Good packing products is working fine love it keep it up
5|In an affordable price from Seagate. Thanks snapdeal.com and app for make me happy.
4|Normal Time Delivery But Nice Product good condition
5|Always had a great experience ordering things ar snapdeal. No complaints and smooth transaction, couldn't are for a better service than what they provide
5|Good product
5|Nice, reliable and Value for money.
5|It is a must have product for everyone. Its super compact, slim and cute. Its easy to use, fast and reliable. It is suitable yo be used anywhere and anyone can handle it.even my eight years old kid is handling it at our home with ease. We carry this anywhere we want.
5|I bought this a yr ago .. works perfect. Slim n sexy !!!!I use it with Mac and Windows. no issues.
4|Very compact and easy to use. No hassles in using with Mac book Air and other Laptops. So far so good .
4|nice experience and quality also very good
5|This was my best deal.I got the superb product at this price.
5|good one to use
5|Wonderful product
4|Cheaper by 10 to 20% compared to local stationery shop
5|slim ,fast, reliable and best do not think much really a good product.
5|best product ever used and price also low as compare to market and other online store thanks
5|its a very good deal, i checked all on line purchasing sites but snap deal is better than others. thanks for snap deal &amp; i wish to continues with snap deal. i gifted this for my son.
4|best prouduct for me
5|Excellent product
5|Contents recieved a little late than expected but solid pricing. Could not have been cheaper.
5|Nice Product
5|good product
5|Fantastic and easy to use it. Small and compact and very handy.
4|Expected a damage free product but got a scratch at one of the corner :((( that makes to feel sad...remaining everything is great
5|the product is really sleek and beautiful, have been using it for past 1 month now, works perfectly fine.
5|Best price and quality too, it is working fine.
4|Thats Good Product &amp; Nice Service
5|Really super
4|The product is good. Its sleek as mentioned in specifications and is working efficiently. I am very satisfied with the product.
5|it just amazing looks awesome hand handeled i am very much satisfied
4|service is good it works also require more payment options like use of gift card in on line shoping
4|got for best price
5|Very good product easy to get @ lower rate as compare to market
5|good deal,handy product,nice service
5|good price snapdeal
5|Nice Product with best rate and Service
4|Excellent compact product ... recommended for all.
5|I got this product for Rs. 400 less as compared to open market. This is a genuine original product what I was looking for.
5|good to use
5|Product with genuine brand, easy to install and usage in a best price.
4|very perfect product at that price.. so worthy..
5|Compact, Light , Easy to use . Have 3 of these now and have not faced any issues
5|i am fast time user in snap deal. i got the best &amp; fast service from Snap deal.
4|its awesome product i really it..the design and service it too nice..i fully satisfied when i got it on my hand..
5|Nice product .good delivery and reading speed
5|Awesome pricing, I checked local market &amp; other online platforms, Snapdeal gives you the best pricing. Kudos.
5|Product is Authentic, Packed Well, Deliver on Time Thank You Snap Deal for such an Amazing Service
4|I Received the product little late than estimated delivery date.However, received Hard disk in good condition.with Box.Its working well too.
5|It is very light weight, Easy to carry and Good price from snapdeal.
5|seagate is provide best storage part or snapdeal is always gives best prises
5|The product is very reasonable rate compare to market. I recommend to all friends to purchase only on snapdeal.
5|Very nice services!!! Liked it a lot. The delivery guy was also very decent and polite.
5|Good product and fast delivery. I am happy with this product.
5|Perfect product. Looking nice. Value for money....
5|The product is working perfectly fine. A great deal by Snapdeal.
4|Nice Compact Awesome
4|Good and handy for users, I shall recommend it as a good deal from snapdeal...
5|Quick Delivery, Good Packaging &amp; Great Product !!!
5|As usual the product is very nice but the only problem is that it was not delivered in time as expected..bad service..it took nearly 25 days to reach me..I hope it won't happen again
5|I ordered it came on the due date Snapdeal in an awsome website for shopping...
4|a must in today's generation one can relly on this brand and order it blindly
5|Now M using This product and i have no issue with these , totally agree with snapdeal service .. too good.
5|I got delivery in a very neat condition, it was delivered before the said timing. A very slim device as seen in the photo. Worth for my money. Tks to snapdeal.
5|nice product giving review afta 3months of purchase
5|received in good condition and fast delivery and good communication
5|Best part is a price offered by Snapdeal. cheapest amongst the all. good and very useful product. thums up to snapdeal for getting me this product at a cheapest price
4|Good Product and at a good price, good experience with snapdeal so far too! Hope such continues and more such deals keep popping up!
5|fully satisfied and with product and the delivery speed
5|When u open its pack and first time you take it in your hands...you will feel like its a piece of art... Super slim....it doesn't get any better....Thnku SD
5|sigat extra NAL heard disk is very use full and so fast.
5|Very nice product with nice price. Happy to purchase this product. Thanks Snapdeal.
5|I am happy with snapdeal response for this hard disk. I have received product on time and there s no problem. I will definitely recommend others for this shopping store. Great experience..
4|first of all i would like to thanks to snapdeal of their delivery timing and it is a good product even i have used it.
5|Product is awesome. Packing was good.. Not much happy with the delivery speed.
5|realy it is good product &amp; also Yes, I would like recommend this to a friend
5|Hard Disk Base Chale hao.
5|Easy to carry easy to use trusted product also...
4|Delivery - good experience .its timely as committed Product - good until now
4|ITS JUST ONE DEVICE ONE IS LOOKING FOR &amp; MUST HAVE IT
5|this product came in time. but my recent products have not reached. it is almost 10 days since i ordered the product.
5|this goood product i like it thanks loooooove it
4|You can go for it.........................................................................................................................................................
5|Very fast device and you can use in any kind of laptop...
5|Come to me very fast , original product and very g8 product buy it without any 2nd thought
5|Ek dam Jhakas product... buy without dought
5|This product is really better then Segate's Old expansion Model. Slim thing has its own benefit ;)
5|Really very portable and handy device of Seagate.
5|Product is awesome. Worth for money. Delivery was on time and the product was in a perfect condition while delivered.
1|Product not sent in good paking condition
1|Good. Delivery is god but given to watch man. Product is good
5|product is good I am happy. It is delivered within one week.
5|I got this hard disk delivered in 4 days.... It is perfect condition..... Working quite well..... This product is very good at this price
5|I browse for external hard disc &amp; i found good offer at snapdeal. I got home delivery in three days without any charges.
5|The order was delivery within one day,and seagate is absolutely great!!
4|very good product. satisfied with the service of snapdeal
5|Comes in a good packing .quality product .fully satisfied
5|Good product n great service by snap deal :)
4|Very fast delivery and product is in good condition.
5|Perfect. It doesn't get any better
5|It's awesome in it's price range &amp; work too.
5|Excellent Response ,Good packing ,Good Price...Snapdeal really dil ka deal hai...
5|I am very happy to buy this product and Snap-deal Service.
5|It was great experience with snapdeal. The product was delivered with very good condition. The price was also low in comparison to the market.
5|Lowest price ever compare to all market....deliver in time...with best packing...genuine product
5|Product is good and service is reliable but it could be best.
4|nice performane ,good and safe shipping, on time delivery, original product. satisfactory.
5|Excellent product as advertised.. Fast delivery... got it for a great price too.. What is there to complain? 5 stars.
4|It is a beautiful product from seagate as always. Very satisfied with segate and snapdeal. I will definitely recommend it.
5|I booked this product, believe me... This is vrry good, i glad to order from snapdeal...thanks
5|Its slim and very compact... It can be easily connected to pc and even mobiles also...
4|Got the item without damage and performace is also good.
4|Good buy...very compact and easy to use.
5|it nice and very useful to me
5|great metallic design and awesome response.
5|Product is very good..fully satisfied..
5|Small and elegant product
5|Delivery is delayed. But Product is excellent
4|Product was good and perfectly working
5|Great product. Works well, fast and as expected
5|Good product from Seagate and best price by Snapdeal
5|It's good but don't know how many day's it will work perfectly
5|I like this product. Its very compact and comfort to carry in any where. I can store any can this device.
5|I got the item what i selected. They handover the item without any damage and handover same item &amp; color that i have selected. I recommend my friends also to buy items from snap deal.
5|Excellent response. And very good care about product.
5|Working fine! Got it at good price
4|Perfect, It doesn't get any better.
4|using for 4 months it's really working fine...very nice slim built and easy to use
4|Good looks great work.
5|I have received the product very fast and i n good condition
5|Working fine. Handy small.
5|Very good &amp; genuine product
5|Thanks snap deal
5|its nice looking, very small. very user friendly
4|Easy to use, compact and durable.
5|I am very happy with this device.I think it is great.
4|Its very good and useful product.
4|Compact, Fast and Worth.
5|It is very good and perfect...
4|Really good product.. nice one
5|Nice product best choose this, ultra slim and easy to handle this product
4|Product received in Good condition but it was too delyed.
4|A gud product..So far its been in better working condition!
4|product is very good and usefull.
5|Perfect. It doesn't get any better
5|Simply awesome and affordable. A must buy product
5|Awesome packaging and great instruction leaf let from the seller.
5|nice product and good,
5|The product is awesome and value for money.
4|good product in reasonable price
5|Perfect. It doesn't get any better
4|Good product works fine
5|It is good product, compact,Slip &amp; fast(on Win 7or8)
3|Not bad, But price high compare to Local Stores
5|You guys rock for sure.. im using it quite often.. even price was awesome compaired to oyher websites. Thank you.
5|The product which i had taken from you is working perfect and i am satisfied.
5|i am see this product in market but verry expensive but here too good
5|Small and Slim ........ the best there is !
5|product is good working nice
5|Perfect It dosent get any better
5|Good work good item full satisfied fast farfamenes on any work
5|Nice and Worth for Price
5|seagate back up plus is realy good . Very compact and no vibration during usage.
5|Reasonable price, good product.
5|It is very good product at very reasonable rate
4|Standard Quality. work fine
5|Got good product at good price. Recommended to everyone. Must buy.
4|it superb and very slim..we can easely carry any where
4|good product. surely perfer to buy one frnd.
5|This product is at its best in this price...very durable!
5|Its perfect and package reached safely without any damage, thanks to snapdeal
5|Product is best in its class and cheap among other listed website.
5|it is awesome.in awesome pricei have got.......nice nice
5|Worth buying. Happy with the product.
4|The Product is fine as per mentioned in the details. I would recommend other people to buy this product
4|good and satisfactory
5|Product is good and having nice experience with seller.
5|good quality and working well
5|dont get any better product in this price range
5|Perfect. It doesn't get any better...
5|Good Product. Would recommend to all.
4|It's very useful and reasonable
4|A good device and a good buy. Working extremely well more than satisfied with the product.
5|superb in this rangs i like it.....
4|Now Only starts to use so superb now
5|It is very Good and slim, so nice of it
4|product quality is good.
4|Does what is expected to do. Good.
5|Genuine product and slim very much satisfied.
5|Really PerFect . Can't Get Better Than This.
4|A very good product, worth the money
5|best product,with great offer
5|Nice Product and Service
5|AMAZING ITEM.....MUST PURCHASE...BETTER THAN WD
5|NICE.SLIMMY... PERFECT CHOICE
5|nice product love toh shop from snapdeal
4|slim and compact - very useful one
5|serves the purpose and its fast
5|Always liked seagate products, best quality you get in seagate
5|It handy and quite compactible to every devices and ofcourse its Seagate man..!! u cant get better than this
5|It is working just fine.. Small, sleek and stylish.
5|It was a nice deal for me. works perfectly.
4|It was as expected, I can suggest it to my frnds.
5|I am Happy with this Product its really Best.......
5|Awesome product with perfect usablity.
5|Worth to buy such great product...go for it
5|it is perfect to your computer small and convenient.
5|Happy with the product....comparatively price is good, quick delivery...
5|Awesome product...got it at a cheap rate and excellent service by snapdeal...can't ask 4 more!!!
5|Prompt delivery, perfect packing. I am happy with the service. The items were in good condition.
5|Product was delivered on time and the packaging of the electorinic item was good. Only thing need to improve is the tracking part, like In product delivery option user should be asked with TIME and DAY's when the product can be deliverd. so that based on this courier guy can delivery the product.
5|very good product and delivered on time and as per the description and good price
4|the external hard drive working so beautifully.....thanks to snapdeals........
4|I. Will recommend people to buy ths product. Very good delivery by snapdeal.
5|Good product rate also affordable timely delivered thanks for snapdeal
5|best price and nice product snapdeal is gr site
4|ok good service. with in the time i am recieved.
4|good services provided by snapdeal. product is very good, speed is good.
5|it a worth buying product and price is also less at snapdeal compared to other sellers..
5|A slogan for Snapdeal - You need it , we have it. Unbeatable quality, service and price.
5|Original and timely delivery of product is superb
4|But the logo of seagate is changed. Delivery is fast and well packed
5|nice product good
5|PERFECTLY BETTER.
5|vary usefull
5|good quality
5|good quality
5|good quality
4|Compact and good
5|Really superb
4|loved it...
5|Very good quality.
5|very good service
5|Worthy
5|Good Quality Product
5|Vary best.....
4|Price Worthy
5|This a very good product from seagate. I bought it from snapdeal. It is very useful and easy to use and carry. Snapdeal delivered it in before time.
5|very happy with services and product quality.
5|Working fine, good quality and fast delivery
5|I always get my needs from snapdeal. It is not because it is the only one available in India, but because it is the best in the World. I hope it will last forever supplying and supporting the customers with all new.
3|Product is very good and price competitive. But, delivery is very much delayed
5|got on time delivery and product looks good and performs even well. very happy
5|Snapdeal delivers genuine product at very low cost &amp; in minimum time.
5|yes this best product I store all personnel and business also Smart, smooth and fast
5|Wonderful product from seagates n ultimate delivery by snapdeal
4|Very nice product. Very fast delivery. Thanks to Snapdeal
5|Everything is perfect in Snapdeal with respect to order system and delivery time line ...very important is cost ..which is less than any of other shopping sites...
5|Product is simply awesome.@Snapdeal:Are you working on your delivery or not.I mailed you twice for shipping status before the product reached my home.India Post would have shipped it quite early then you did.
5|The product is as it is sold at the retail shop. The packaging is outstanding. The product is best in its category.The product was received on its estimated delivery date without any delay.
5|Great product, amazing price, fast delivery from Snap deal. Product is really sleek
4|good product ! i must suggest others to buy this....i have only concern is shipment service which is too slow .Its the grey area of snapdeal.
5|The service provided by Snapdeal was awesome! It came before the time they promised. It was too early for me. I was happier more than surprised.
5|Very nice slim good performance nd nice nd quik service snapdeal tq snapdeal
3|No backup software include.otherwise good service.
5|Works quite O K.There are only positive things to say about the product and snapdeal. Keep it up and Congrats!
5|"I would buy this product again and again" "I would buy this product again and again" "I would buy this product again and again" "I would buy this product again and again" "I would buy this product again and again""I would buy this product again and again" "I would buy this product again and again"
5|Very good product from Seagate and snapdeal my rating is 10/10
5|The Product is good and perfect for my use. Snapdeal delivered the product on the next day of the purchase.
5|The order was awesome purchased using the App. in one minute got it delivered very fast also the device is working excellent. 10 out of 10
5|It is very good and fast services with a very competative pricing
5|hi i bought this product and xtremely happy to have the product delivered right at my door step - and the product is real good
5|Thank you Snapdeal for coming up with this fabulous deal. I liked the product and it is simply awesome!!! Keep it going!!!
5|It is an awesome with great service ...thank you Snapdeal ...happy to shop...
4|I am happy with the services of Snapdeal and the quality of product.
5|working is very fast. easy to play good working.
5|Its the most trusted brand. So a single word for it. "EXCELLENT"
1|The hard disk is not working within 3 days of purchasing it. The review of this purchase is not satisfactory from my end.
5|Does exactly what it says! Would definitely recommend to all. Its slim, fast and works very well with mac too!
4|Company unable to provide in given word ----&gt; on booking time said one day delivery....coming to product it is good one...
5|it,s very easy to use ans is reliable
4|Initially it create a problem on windows and later its good
5|A Gud product to buy and also delivery by pytm????
5|it's nice feeling to buy from snapdeal.com...i'm again and again buy product for snapdeal..here price is less compare to all e-commerce website..
5|THIS IS BEST HARDISK IN LOWER RANGE... AND ALSO THANKS TO SNAPDEAL IT IS 300 LESS THAN ANOTHER ONLINE SITE
5|good product lowest price well packing great snapdeal
4|Good experience and fast delivery....amazing like it
5|Good packaging, on time delivery, perfect product
5|I like snapdeal Service, Segate is good product and Back plus is nice one,
5|Satisfied Service, Great Arrangement, Quick Benefit.
4|1 less star for Snapdeal because of the initial Packaging of the product is poor.
5|It is a amazing one..working good...delivered shortly and safe packing also..I like this SD flash sale purchase and deal.
5|this item is very good
5|Fully Satisfied with the product... :)
1|i fully format HD using delete partition table after that it can't assign letter automatically
5|nice product delivery is quick and cheap too!!!!!!!!!!!!
5|Awesome deal getting through snapdeal. Snapdeal delivered it on third day.....good experience for online shopping.....love snapshop. I just got this at best price ever.
5|It has been a great buying experience with Snapdeal. the product was delivered prior to the scheduled delivery date.Packaging could have been better. Nevertheless, hats off to Snapdeal!. i would definitely recommend to my friends about buying on Snapdeal.
5|I'M surprised to get such a quality product on unbelievable price, Thanks a ton to snapdeal.com.
5|Ordered it for same day delivery and got it within 23 hours. Still awaiting cashback from Snapdeal though.
5|Product was good with very comparable.And its as described and delivered in 2 days. Thanks snapdeal.
5|I am very pleased for purchaseing the external hardisk. Many many Thanks to snapdeal. My friend also pleased for purchaseing this product. Thank you to snapdeal.
5|Timely delivered. Good product. Faster file transfer.
5|Everyone should have this product, as it is fast enough to fulfill it's purpose. As well as very easy to carry &amp; will fits even in anyone's pocket...!!!
5|No negetive feedback found. Such a nice device.
5|it was all k bt i had some pblm regarding the installation of dasboard
5|i use this product and this is work fantastic .
5|Product to my expectation
5|Perfect one what I required.
5|Good Working and slim
5|No prblm .....nice product....
5|Good product.…...............................................................
5|Good deal. Good product.
5|the product is good and easy to use .
4|It was a good experience at a good price.
5|Best Fit in rate &amp; Realiable
4|SLIM, COMPACT ANDUSER FRIENDLY
3|i have not got recite or any tax invoice
4|I have satisfied with this product,
5|excellent product and dealing
5|Happy with the product.
5|Very compact and easy to carry.
4|Nice product... Handy
4|It was well packed and the perfect product which I was looking to store my documents.
5|i use that product almost 1.5 month no problem found and also look wise it awesome....
5|gettin over heated when used for alonger time
5|Nice and portable device.
5|Prodect is very good I like it
4|Nothing to say,Nice thing to take back up in easy way like plug and play.............
4|This product is good.But in other purchase even I given complaint no response is getting.
4|I am satisfied with the product
5|I am really satisfied.
4|So far good (using for last one month only )
4|The price was reasonable
5|The packaging was great..n so was the product
5|slim and portable product... worth the money paid
4|It is a good product.
5|no words to expose every thing is very good
4|I am using this more than 6 months. till now not faced any problem. Worth for the money I spend
5|Perfect product and perfect price thanks snapdeal
4|very good product to buy
5|AWESOME PRODUCT........
4|The hard disk is cool and very handy. It is very slim and hence easy to carry. I am using it for almost 6 months and have not faced any problem till now.
5|the good part of this product is it comes with 3years warrenty.
5|this one is the best hard disk...just go for it dont think
5|Best product at best price.
5|It is a better hard disk i receive.. Now i m enjoy....
5|good prouct low price
5|I got the product with in 2 days,Its looks very thin and fits into pocket.Good one.
4|A handy hard disk worth its money.
5|Very good packaging and product
5|I got this product at a good price.
5|product is very nice and am confirm that it is original.
5|Slim design and eligant look. Best seller
4|Very good anf branded product
4|Good to use and works fast
5|It's slimmest and works soo fast!!! Satisfed!!!
5|Very useful product. Robust and secure.
5|Value for money product
4|Product is good. But pacckaging not good.
5|Very good product,I like this items
5|Good product. Like it so far. Very slim and handy.
4|hard disk is good and have slim design
4|This is very good product.
4|I would recommend this to a friend
4|The product is good .
5|Product is really worth Thanks to Snapdeal
4|It was Good Product....
5|excellent product,very slim and handy to use.easy plug and play.
5|awesome product with economic price
4|It is really nice in given price.
5|Great Product in lowest price
4|Looks good as of now.
5|Good product original
4|Software provided by the seagate company takes some time to act on a command. Otherwise the product is good.
5|Heigher quality Lower Price
5|Product is very good You can trust more than 100 percent
5|I like this product and its functionality is satisfactory till now. I like it.
5|good go for it slim and light
5|i am very happy to use it
5|Niceee very handy gave it to my girl friend she found it cute and easy to cary..
4|Good to use this product.
4|It is a good product.
5|very nice product no complaints as of now
4|Recommended product to others.
5|Price in worth for this product.
5|very nice and slim and easy and fast to run with any device like mobile , tab, laptop, desktop
5|it is very convenient to carry anywhere in pocket. easy to use. also it has smooth and durable body.
5|It is easy to operate
5|very nice product.....
5|For last couple of weeks I am using this product. So far it is perfect.
5|Packaging was good . Fast and easy to use.
4|ok good product as per my requirement
5|It's best and at best cost... .
5|Nice performamce with.plug and play
5|I am satisfied with this back up device.
5|It is very handy, in addition to that the hard disk has online support
5|I am happy with the device
4|good product &amp; pricing too.
4|Good product. Needs to be handled carefully.
5|it is perfect product
5|it has a lot of space and using seagate dashboard makes bakup in too small space.
4|Good product,a bit thicker but ok
5|excellent product....
5|Great shopping with snapdeal
4|good product, on time shipment
5|The harddisk is very nice and handy.
5|it is a very good product........................
5|It was a good deal in this price.
4|easy to use. compact ideal for use
5|its slim and light. reliable as it could be used in any platforms
5|It's just an amazing product at a low cost.
5|Exelent and orignal very good product by snapdeal
5|Nice Product must buy
5|This gets heat up very quickly but works well.
4|very useful to my house
5|This is a very good product.
5|Product is very nice.!
4|Look and finishing is nice
5|it is the best among all hardisks
5|Its a great deal for a Seagate product!
4|I have been using this harddisk for 2 months now and before that I used seagate's portable harddisk for 3 yaers and it did not crash. My previous hardisk crashed only due to physical damage. If you want to purchase a harddisk you must seagate only.
5|It is Good product which I was looking for
5|Worth to buy.. Product is very handy.
5|Very good product.No cons.
5|nice hard disk slim and portable easy to use
5|this product is very nice, easy to use, fast, every one can use this product
5|no word to say its segate product and its slim working fine
5|very good product....
5|This company is better for all brands
5|ITZ PERFECT GUYS.. U MUST GO FOR IT..
5|An excellent product and surprisingly on time dilivery
5|Exactly matches with my expectations. You must go for this. Fast in read and write.
4|A good deal for the price. 700 less than the market price.
5|I got this in very good price.
5|Have no words and as always SD is best in all aspects.
5|good product @ good prize
4|Nice product and very easy to use it.
4|Product was good and easy to use.
5|Very good what i wants
5|Sleek like a movie star... Highly recommendable...
5|The product i received was just perfect....wd luv to shop through snap deal again and again.....
4|it is slim,works fine.
5|Wonderful product. Everything as per specifications and working properly.
4|GOOD MAKE BUT NOT AS FAST
5|Nice &amp; easy handy device. Believable device.
5|best prices &amp; best deals
5|Great product seagate slim hard disk its looks sleek and slim its advisable to purchase.
4|Good product in comper of other.
5|This is perfect for the use.
5|this is the best one.... guys if u r going to buy HD then go for this :).
5|Suggest you to with it
4|A good thing to relay on..
5|SLIM FAST AND BEAUTIFUL
5|No words rather than Awesome .
5|Perfect product for a perfect price
4|product is good but packaging is very poor.
5|Good for the price, I have started using the device.GOOD
4|The back up plus i have received was working good.
5|Quite effective. Sleek and simple. Easy to use.
5|It's a very good one .
4|Delivery this product to me around 14 days. So much delay...
5|very useful for travelling
5|It is nice to work on computer with the external hard disk and very easy to travel...
5|My first order met what i required..., Happy...
5|just too much excellent....
5|U cant ask for anythng more ...just perfect nd awesome delivered products by snapdeal
3|I like seagate product, Slim and look good. Delivery was poor and not on-time
4|The product is very good and the delivery by sd was as per schedule
5|Working Very well.............. ................................ ................................ ...................................
5|i surely refer this product to everyone....very low price and the product is very good...also snapdeal delivery is also before the estimate delivery date...i liove this purchase
5|The product is fine
5|its the best
5|awesome
4|Good One
4|That's Good Stuff
5|The delivery was delayed but other than that I'm happy with the product
3|the product is good but u take a lot more time for delivery.
4|Overall satisified with the Product, Delivery and off course the pricing!!! Thank you snapdeal
5|THIS PRODUCT IS VERY GOOD. PLUG N PLAY SERVICE AND EASY TO USE
5|gr8 product but late delivery from the vendor and now express companies i.e.courier men r asking for ID.. fk is this.. if v order prepaid product u ll chk our identity.. ths bad on this part..else evrythn k..
4|good service provided by snapdeal it delivered the product in too less time and the product is also better
5|Best buy product and service by snapdeal
5|the delivery was much before than expected
5|Fast delivery, very slim and Good working
5|must go for it.....only on snapdeal..it very trust full one ..........
5|The Item is good and the delivery too. Best of luck to the seller and snapdeal team.
5|Product as described. Timely delivery of the product.
5|First class delivery and the device is damm good thanx to snapdeal
5|Thanks, This is very good product. I am happy for Purchasing from Snapdeal.
4|Good Product
5|nice one
4|product is excellent but late deliver
5|Good productt
5|Excellent
5|Good Product .
5|Excellent
4|Perfect
4|very nice
4|Good product..
5|Very nice
1|not good
4|Very useful
4|it is better
4|got good stuff
4|Value to Money.....
4|good one
4|Nice One.... :)
5|sleek &amp; good
5|Good prodcut
5|Awesome go for it.
5|nice one
5|Very Nice
5|VGood
4|Good deal
5|Much cheaper
5|Awesome!!!
5|good one
5|Very Good Product.
5|Good Product
5|good product
4|Superp
5|EXCELLENT
5|Very good item
5|best buy........
5|Very good product
5|Excellent
5|Good Performence
5|excellent deal
5|Nice Product
4|Super hard disk
5|very nice
4|good1
4|super
3|product is very good
4|Good slim device
4|good product
4|Good to use
5|Nice product
4|Its good..
5|It's best product
5|Good keep it up
5|perfect
4|best of one
5|Good Item
5|Love this
4|Worth it!!
5|Good product
5|Very good product.
5|complete awesome
5|Nice experience
5|awesome
5|excellent
5|i am very happy...
5|No issue so far
4|Great Product
5|Good prodect
4|Awesome Hard Disk...
4|worth paying for it
5|good product
5|Worth to money
4|GOOD DEAL
4|Nice products
4|Good product
5|Working perfect
5|Good product
5|Good product
5|Perfect works..
4|Easy and Compatible
4|That's Good Stuff
5|Great Product!!
5|GOOD PRODUCT
5|Its nice...
5|nice product
5|Perfect of my needs.
5|Great
5|nice harddisk
5|It's good one
5|Very good Product
5|best Price
5|working super speet
4|light, small, fast
4|Its Good
5|good product
4|very good product
5|it's wonderfull
5|good prices
5|Good Product!!
5|nice to have
5|good product
5|Good one
5|Perfect
5|Satisfied
5|Good price
4|Good product.
5|Good item
5|Good product
4|worth fr money
4|It is very Good
4|Strongly Suggested
5|5 perfect
5|Love it
5|Perfect
3|average
5|Good Product
5|reliable
5|Good product
5|Value or money.
4|Satisfied
4|It's Worth
5|excellent product
4|its awesome
5|Best for its price
5|Very good
5|It'Slim and Compact
5|very happy
4|Good product
4|Good product
5|Nice to use it.
4|VERY GOOD PRODUCT
5|Snapdeal great
4|very useful to all.
4|Really handy n nice.
5|Good product
5|Very nice
4|it's amazing
2|good product
4|Excellent!!
5|Good product
4|very good product
5|good product
5|nice piece
4|Nice Product
5|good one
5|Best product
5|Super
5|good deal
5|I got the things what I need ... Thanks to Snapdeal..
5|Seagate is good brand and the snapdeal has made it affordable with very good delivery process.
5|Product matches description. Neat package. Delivered within 4 days. Happy with overall service and the product.
5|best deal with great price &amp; faster delivery
5|This product is good and the service of snapdeal is really awesome
5|good product &amp; bast replacemant services
4|Good stuff. Only problem that it was not delivered at my door step and I had to collect it from their local office being informed.
5|me Gyan Ranjan Prasad is very very happy with the snapdeal service.
5|I HAVE PURCHASED THIS SEAGATE HARD DISK AT VERY LOW RATE. I definitely recommend all my friends to buy the product from Snapdeal.
4|Product delivered on time and with good quality.
4|So far so good. I am happy with Snapdeal :-)
5|I got on time delivery nd its work very nice.
4|Good Deal to buy a seagate device. Fast delivery from snapdeal.
5|Easy to use. Slim.compact design. Fully satisfied with Snapdeal purchase.
5|The service standards of ms snap deal is very excellent
5|Good service by Snap deal and product is also good.
4|i bought it on very good discount from snapdeal and it is very good product easy to use easy to carry..
5|Very slim and compact design. Preety much worth to buy. Snapdeal service also very good and prompt delivery
5|5 Rating Very nice hard disc as well as the service provided by snapdeal amazing
5|SUPERB SERVICE by Snapdeal and also one of the best deal
5|Great followup and response from snapdeal team.
5|Electronic items from Snapdeal have been good buys. They delay the delivery, so if you are not in a hurry, Snapdeal is a good buy for electronic items.
5|Snapdeal service is good my experience is too good
1|snap deal services and its item packing is worst.......i wont recomend snap deal purchase next....
1|Looking like a used one.
5|Happy with the product &amp; quick delivery..
5|Very good service and punctuality is recommendable
5|This brand aswell as product is reliable and service given by snapdeal is amazing.
5|Hard disc was properly packed and delivered promptly
5|Perfect price, prompt delivery, Really "Acche Din" .....
5|This hard disk was delivered to me on the very next day... Pleasantly surprised!!!
5|We are already purchased this product outside but in snapdeal this is lowest price &amp; packing was exellent, delivery also fast within 4 days good
5|Take it when price is below 4k. Best price available at snapdeal.
5|must buy look no furthur
4|product is good but delivery is too bad.
5|Most reliable product got in most competitive price and in time from snapdeal. Thank you snapdeal.
5|I like ur service Hard disk is very nice
4|Product is very good but the packing was soiled and bad smelling
5|I was in dout buying this but it works good,thanks snapdeal.
5|now i am using it for last one month, product which i like.
5|Beyond my imagination
5|It is cute to look at and is handy,you can carry it any where and have loads of funs with it.
4|Its looking very slim I like it
4|very handy and easy to use.
4|cost of the product lowered after my purchase.
4|Other Product very poor
4|Price from sd are really lesser then from others
5|buy it without hesitation.
5|Its working ultra fast.... im loving it...
5|Very slim and portable.
5|Realyy a SLICK one, even lesser volume than a smartphone...Least price, easy to use and carry....
3|The dilivery was 4 days late than the given estimated time...
4|I will shop again on SD..
5|Very slim &amp; easy to use !!
5|totally plug and play
5|yes what i want i got it
4|Seagate is a famous more buyers seagate preffers
5|Very simple to use. Just plug and use. And very light and easy to handle.
4|Very slim and ease to use and carry
4|Its very slim and handy.
4|reading frequency is less...
5|Its ok.. I eould like to reffer u to buy this product.
4|after all its seagate product
5|Handy, light, can carry it anywhere
4|when we use, it warms up
5|Easy to use, extremely handy and robust
5|very sleek and handy...it can be adjusted in my prse...loving it..
5|Slim and very portable
4|slimmest in this price tag and VFM
4|It's a standard product. I would recomend to buy this product.
4|Its easy to use on android tab also.
5|PAKKA PACKAGE :) Gud product safe landed :)
5|A spectucular Product
5|IT IS SLIM AND VERY HANDY
5|Sleek, and Fast... Descent Product.....
5|Very Sleek and Smooth
5|go for segate n snapdeal
5|Mast Raho, Swasth Raho !!!
5|Fast Working I Like It
5|Good Service by Snapdeal, It has reched in 3days after buying. I like the service by Host(snapdeal)
5|I love snapdeal shoping this is pafect way to shoping
5|Fast delivery,more products and less price
4|product is good but packing is not packed in bubble.
5|Best product wanna purchase again and again from snapdeal only
5|it is good and slim.it deliver in the safty way.
4|gud product
4|i am with service &amp; good result.
5|Satisfied with both devise and SD delivery
4|i was nice experience..... packing was good
4|good service including follow ups , delivery, mail communication also customer service helpdesk was supportive.
5|timely deliver and hard disk is slimer than expectation.
4|Committed delivery did this time.I have stopped purchasing from Snapdeal but after this order I will start shopping
4|more easy to use
3|not bad .
4|brilliant
5|very slim very smart
5|Its a Fab
5|perferct ..
5|gd product
5|easy to carry
5|thanks snapdeal
5|Beter
5|Very handy and sleek
5|It worked out for me
5|NOT BAD
5|I like it.
5|its goood...
4|less light feathers
5|Thanks to SNAP DEAL
5|Loving it
4|working very well
4|Mast hai,Go for it
5|Must buy
5|like it
4|No cons
5|Just go &amp; buy it :)
4|veru gud product
2|Bad product
4|Gooood
5|paisa vasool
4|Must buy
5|This is the first order i had placed it on snapdeal.and i was fully satishfied with the product.
4|I liked the product. Packing was all good.
5|Very good packing and delivered on time. The product is good.
5|Good product and on time delivery
5|Snapdeal is providing very good service.
5|very good product good service from Snapdeal keep going.
4|verry good product.Im satesfied.Thanks snapdeal onlin soap
5|what i ordered i received same thing.. thanks to snapdeal.com
5|very happy with the packing and delivery especially the product :)
5|Snapdeal has delivered the product within 3 days. I like the snapdeal service and product.
5|Good product a affordable price. Snapdeal did good service too.
5|Great service at good price
4|But delivery taken too long time
3|Ya nice product delivered properly thans
5|Its really Slim and ultra lite wight... Thanks to snapdeal for delivering before the committed date.
5|Prompt delivery.nice packing.excellent product at a surprising price.
4|Good service and good product
5|Timely delivery and excellent product!!
3|no bubble packing around original hard disk packing, in snap deal product cartoon
5|fast delivery and good packing.. received in good condition.
4|good Experience
5|Quick delivery, nice packing and awesome product
5|Got product in 4 days at my home. I like snapdeal. Thank you.
4|Working very well. Satisfied with this product. You can go for it.
5|Working well, cheaper than flipkart / amazon, next day delivery. Overall good.
5|good
5|.
4|it is good. super fast to write &amp; as well as read. I prefer to buy this one
5|Good
5|good
5|Good
5|On time delivery very good...
4|....
5|good quality delivered.
4|complete satisfied with the product and the service
4|Good
5|excellent product...!!!!
5|worth it....more
3|got a replacement and it seems good to work with seagate brand.
5|Good
5|good
5|good product
5|Seagate products is a excellent product
5|Good
4|Good
4|Good product . good speed 80-90 mbps. You can buy this product.
5|Nice slim and portable harddisk
5|product is awesome and genuine. i think its better to use.
5|Fast Delivery...
4|it is a nice product ...good design sleek lighter.. but earlier i had very bad experience, snapdeal had earlier delivered a damaged samsung old phone in hardisk packing..I have to return that product and then received hardisk...
5|.
5|Nice
5|Good
5|nice
5|I would like to give 5 out of 5 rating. The product is easy to use and it comes under 3 years of warranty. So even if the product is outsated or not working well within the prescibed warranty limit we can return it back to the company directly. Overall it was a good experience to shop with snapdeal.
5|good
3|Good
5|Good
5|good
5|Nice Product. Timely Delivery
5|good
5|As usual you earned it Snapdeal, ordered and recieved the product within 3 days &amp; packing was best.
5|Great product. Perfectly delivered!
5|Very Good Product.
5|gr8
5|Small, easy to use and well designed.
5|Good
5|I have purchased this product and i recieved it within one day.Snapdeal does its work well.Also product packaging impresseses me and hardisk is also nice which i get at such a lowest price....
5|nice
3|Good
5|Good product &amp; good service by snapdeal..
5|good
5|72 gb folder in just 20 min ....speed was 35mb/sec wow
5|best
5|Price of the product reasonable, product quality excellent and transfer of data fast . I am able to transfer most of my additional data SPEEDILY from my computer to the Hard Disc including those of applications. USB wire is very compact. I heartily recommend the product to all the owners of old laptop desktop computes to buy the same without any hesitation, to enable them to keep their extra and additional data in the disc for their future requirements. I thank the Snap Deal for the excellent product and also for the Disc cover to safe guard the Disc.
5|Ok
5|good product
5|Very quick delivery and item in excellent packed condition.
4|good
5|Best quality Fast delivery Competitive price.
5|.
3|Good
5|Good
4|It's Good Product, Backup my Data's in speed, I Recommend this Product in my friends
5|good
5|Nice
5|good
5|Good delivery timelines and packing quality
5|awesome...... product
5|good
3|good
4|Good
4|nice once very small to carry but price is little high ..
5|This is probably one of the best and the slimmest external HDD with USB 3.0 interface out there with a 3 year warranty. I would definitely recommend it
5|"It's a very good hard disk in this price range "......
4|good
4|product delivered at mentioned time. nice service.
4|very good product , working fine
5|As mentioned.. its just superb !!!
5|i selected this product after reading the review of all hard disk and selected this one.
5|Snapdeal sevice is very good. I am impress for your service.
4|Excellent service. Good product
4|Good
5|Good
5|I bought this products and seems excellent in terms or price, packing, and early delivery
5|No doubt about Seagate products. It works very perfectly and I'm completely satisfied with this.
5|This is my first External HDD...I was advised to purchase some other brand but because of my personal interest I opted for seagate. It's a wonderful product of choice. Seagate con sized the dimensions to pocket fit with trendy design. This 1 Tb HDD provides 928GB cloud storage with one year seagate warranty, performance is good even with USB 2.0 interface (Speed up to 50 Mbps). Snapdeal services are good at remote rural locations. Finally concluding this is product of choice one can opt.
5|***
5|The hard disk is working fine
4|Good
4|vfm
5|good
5|Excellent product, quick delivery from Snapdeal!!
3|Very durable
5|good
5|Perfectly working
5|gud
5|Good
5|Good
5|It was the best thing.....smooth compact and the best product by snapdeal
5|This is the good product but snap deals delivered this item not promptly it takes very long time. My order dispatch on 7th oct 2015 and promised delivery date is 11th oct 2015 but it delivered on 13th only.
5|good
4|Good
5|good
4|GOOD
5|"Don't judge a book by its cover" "I would buy this product again and again" Delivery was also awesome. I got product in only 2 days.
5|amazing hard drive it is very slim, easily carry able,
5|its really gud
4|Good
5|good
5|good
