3|Has a low range..doesn't cover my 2 BHK 1000sq.ft flat..rest all is fine..rated 3 for other features but for range I rate 1
5|GOOD Performance with 4 port lan port with wifi on off button
5|You need not to install the sw cd provided. Just goto 192.168.100.1 and u can configure the router in 3 steps...its easy and simple.
5|TL-WR841N - working perfectly with it's two antennas, good wifi range, with good speed, i must recommend this product over high rage wireless routers.
4|I deserve 5 STAR but given 4 STAR because it doesn't support file sharing . But it is awesome Router I am working with it for last 5 month no problem with this till now and BEST is there is not decrease in speed .
5|I got in in just 2 days of my order.ordered it on 14 nov and got it on 16 nov. Nd its really a good product in a very cheap price. Market price is more thans sd price . Nd u will get it in just two days. So y would u go to market....Order it now if required
2|very Bad range, in front of router it gives 4 to 3 line signal out of 5 line. very poor in single.
4|Good range of Wi-fi..enjoying very good speed with local cable internet provider's connection..!! :)..it's basically a good Router to have..!!
5|Buy once and forget any problems for range and warrenty. It wraps my whole 3 story house in signal and covers 3 year warrenty.
4|it will cover 2bhk but if u using it at the corner of house then range becomes vry weak. otherwise its gud
5|Best router from tp-link. Support all network modes i. e pppoe, dhcp n pptp etc. No disconnection issues yet.
5|its been almost 6 months and i did not face any problem's form Day
5|Very useful with ACT Fibernet connection with 40 Mbps. no signal loss. working file
5|Very well packed and working good. Delivered on time and having warranty of 2 years.
4|I have installed the router at my home which is about 1000 sq.ft. No problem of signal loss at any corner of home. Good product at budget price.
5|I am using it, loving it. It gives wide rage of network. Thanks TP-Link. Thanks Snapdeal for lowest price, prompt service.
4|I am using at home with PCs &amp; TABLETs only. Till date I do not have nay negative experience. The wifi signal strength is up to 10 meters and beyond this I have not checked.
1|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N)has less performance... It's not good... Because its signals becomes very weak in a small distance as one room to another room..
1|Range of the router i bought was really less. I set up the router on upper floor in my room and there was no signal on groudfloor, although it was a dual antena with frequency of 2.4~2.4835GHz.
5|I highly recommend this router to the USER who uses DSL Cable connection, at this price, this router gives an awesome performance. 1.Easy to setup 2. Lightweight 3.Low Power consumption 4.Cheap 5.Good Signal Strength
5|I have brought this router one month ago!I was afraid of setting up and about the brand trust me in this price this is the best wireless router you can get.. Its setup is so easy with the help of the CD..Its very fast and secure... Its give a range of around 30m of radius including walls.. Its olso wall mounted.. alwayz feel cool.. looks like super car.. which solve my wireless problem :) Go for it (y)
5|very good product . Will recommend to others. Though I bought it for my friend. But if you have higher budjet go for 802.11 ac router which is 3 times faster. also don't forget to check the usb port as it is very usefull for printing or streaming hd videos or movies from the HDD connected to it. :D
5|Best in it's range and awesome pricing gives it the edge over it's peers ...... did not feel any kind of hiccups while using it ...... I would suggest that if you want a router with good data rate ( upto 300 Mbps ) you can go for this one without another thought :)
5|Delivery was quick... it is a faboulous router, the looks are not bad, don't think it to be bad due to its cheap price infact ot can beat many router priced more than that. And installation and setting up the router was smooth and easy....would definitely recommend to buy it.
5|Tp-Link TL-WR841N is the best product ever, this is very easy installation, &amp; network coverage of Wi-fi superb. Value for money...go for this.... I am very pleased with Snapdeal service, I got this product after 1.5 days...best of luck Snapdeal for your future business...
5|Best product for home wifi and LAN to connect,pc, tablet,android ,mac book,iphone,laptop,desktop and remotely manage through " tether app"android app easily block and allow internet and easily view who is connected to wireless Router.TP-LINK ROUTER are best product for you and me.
5|it has been 3 months using the router, do not have any negatives.
4|I have received this product within two days of order &amp; found no issue in ordering.
5|i have purchased this item from snapdeal. i have the got the right prodouct with proper vat bill and with 3 years manufacturer warranty.. i m very satisfied with the overall service
5|awsmn man i cant see this typ of router so if u want a router thn buy this 1 more thing this is d cheap nd bst router
3|Recently bought this product and it works as expected and found no issues till now.
5|This router has a very wide network range.It is installed on 4th floor of my apartment and i get network even on the ground floor.No problems till now.easy to install also.
5|its a best in class wireless router. Its powerful antenna boost the range of the wifi and also its speed is 300mbps so u get good connection speed.
4|It was a hassle getting this product, i had to return and re-order as the previous router which came was faulty.... over all average ratings
5|took little time to get delivered .. the product works fine and have a good signal strength..2 laptops and 2 smartphones always connected and speed is good ..
5|Best router.. give super speed.. easy to setting. easy to connectt over 50 wireless connection. Parental control also provided. mac filter also provided..
5|1. In Budget 2. A good range. 3. 2 antenna provide full coverage. 4. awesome speed.
5|i get my perfect choice for large wi-fi range, 4 port lan.. it has many other beauti ful features its 300 mbps very good i just tell u you just buy this model and enjoy uninterupted internet access
5|service is very good, tp-link wireless router is very good, its 300mbps speed is exellent, 3 year warranty label on the box, nice product. i like it. Thank u Snapdeal.
3|Good: 1&gt; WiFi ON/OFF switch @REAR, 2&gt; android app for router configuration/settings BAD: 1&gt;poor Wifi range @ high Transmit Power 2&gt;SERVICE CENETER IS ONLY @Vasai Road in Western Mumbai, disappointing for central &amp; Harbor Line peoples.
3|I had bought it by seeing two antenna but it does not make any difference in range. Range is sale like TP-Link 150 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR740N) so whats the meaning to spent more money
2|slow and range also not very good, it keeps getting disappearing
5|best of value for money best apps good offer easy to use apps
5|A BRAND NAME TP-Link is mean it fully. A seller also knows resposibility of product and packaging against buyer satishfaction.
5|This router is best because it has 2 antennas each with 5dbi gain..this means you can get a very high wifi signal strength in every part of your home.
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is the Best router for me which works for all my devices at the same speed..I LOVE IT:)....
5|its good ,worth it. using since 4 days showing no probs.
5|didnot connect to internet after configuring the router and after restarting the pc and router, it worked well. no signal loss for my fibernet
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router TL-WR841Nis perfect device to use.and use very easy compared to all.model shep is perfect and light weight.
4|Range is good but it is not as fast as I expected, when I start playing multiplayer games on LAN it sometimes lags but for normal use it's ok.
5|this router giving me superb speed.wifi network works with full range
5|One of the only product in this price range offering this much of FEATURES!!!!!!! Pros: 1.easy setup 2.Tether App for android and iOS by TP-LINk to manage your router with easy GUI Cons: 1.Didnt found any till now (using from last 15 days) Must have product if you are looking for a router or switch or just for Wi-Fi purpose
4|i will give him 5 star if they upgrade ..bcs when i have not connect with wifi that time it also get slow spped in pc..so plz update it
5|Before I had d-link dsl router and had problem quite slow. Now I got TP-Link router I think product is very good.
5|One of the wonderful wireless wifi router. Easy to install and no problem router.
3|i got average output from what i was expecting.still cant say as a bad router.
3|this problem very 2 much...average range,but it is low price
5|The product is really very good and useful. It's too cheap to get a wide range of wifi network.
3|I was getting 10 mbps max speed on pc with out this router. After this, the speed came down to about 7.7 mbps on PC and 6.3 mbps on my android phone.
3|even its double antenna it does'nt cover 1000sft flat,.signal drops to single point, no heating issues.
5|Comes with 2 5db antennas with rich signal strength,fully satisfied with this product
5|1.Very Good Wifi range. 2.Very Easy to Use. 3.Very good Speed. 4.Cheep Rate
5|Perfect!!! NO signal drop, no connection problem, long range and the best part is that its very economic. P.S. - Earlier I used TP-Link TL-WR740N Wireless Router (single antenna) but this router has double signal strength and also the range has increased from my previous router. So spending few extra bucks for this version is worth buying.
4|I've used various wifi routers (Belkin,D-link,Netgear) but this router is very cool..No heating issues at all....The wifi range is not that much good as compared to D-link routers but trust me this is the router and there is no drop in connection at all...no prob while streaming HD videos.....Go for this..vfm..
5|I wanted a router with Ip binding and Bandwidth control and this worked perfectly. I wanted to limit the bandwidth speed for my office employees . This got features for it. Easy to install. everything is good about it. Thank you snapdeal and TP link
5|unfortunately i got r841n v.10 which i didn't expect coz every where v9 is roaming &amp; v10 iz not supported on dd wrt. for normal user itz great product in diz price range.. But not recommended for superusers. 1 thing i must hv 2 say that wds connection iz simply great . it takes me less then a min to configure the bridge connection between tplink &amp; dlink &amp; itz awsmm...!!
4|This router is worth every rupee. One must buy this router. Pros: 1. Works good and gives good speed regardless of many other devices connected 2. Adapter length is good giving long distance connector issue resolver. Cons: 1. I found that regardless of double antenna, It doesn't gives internet at much range as much I expected. Overall is good.
5|Pros: - Easy to install - No hassle configuration (great first time setup takes you through) - Quick delivery (2nd day in Bangalore) - Adequate wifi speed Cons: No gigabit ethernet (look at other products of TPLink) Nothing else! Overall a great buy at the price. Took 10 minutes to install and setup, and has been working perfectly past two weeks on my home network.
5|My search for perfect home router for BSNL WiMax connection ended here.. Just plugged in and ran the install CD and setup was a breeze... No signal loss anywhere in my 2000 sqft house.. Well worth it for the reasonable price!!!
5|I order TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) on 13th June,2015 and received 19th June,2015. This is my first Router. first of all it is really worth it pros :- excellent,easy to setup, fast,lightweight,GOOD range and Better connectivity. I think this is best router in this price range. cons :- Nothing found it till now. Snap-deal delivery wasn't satisfying though,it came in very late.Otherwise, it is a value for money product. &lt;3 Snap-deal ( DIL KI DEAL )
2|Service is good by Snapdeal. But the router is not. My previous router was Netis 300 mbps. TP link's wireless area is pathetic. I am not getting good signal after 20 feet. I will not recommend this router to any one. Go for netis 300 mbps.
5|well known and widely sold wi-fi w Ethernet Router router. Pros: 2 5dbi antennas. good range. 3 yrs warranty Cons: no power bank. not that portable.. Power adapter is two pin and not very well connected to the power socket.
5|Best price. Created a LAN and WLAN using this. Connected Laptop, desktop, 3 mobile and a tablet. Double antenna boost signal. Easy to configure and change password.
5|I am very happy and satisfied with this product. Top quality router with vide range and ultimate speed. I recommend everyone to use this product who want to use wi-fi.
5|I ordered TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) and snapdeal deal delivered it within the delivery time. It works excellently and easy to install. Its signal strength is good, no breakage of signal and covers entire 2 BHK house. Infact it covers till my house gate.
5|I buy this item and my experience is best at this cost. I placed this on 1st floor and it cover ground floor and 2nd floor also,about 70 ft radius coverage. Very fast online vedio and Songs play. Very Very Very nice product..
5|The Product was really wonderful. Even my son who no previous network experience could install it easily. configure the same. Was able to access the router from both LED TV and Mobile. Very Good Coverage. Very Prompt delivery by SNAPDEAL Simply superb
5|Great Router at this price. Speed is awesome. It is cover total of my house, which is nearly 1200 sq ft. I am connect 1mobile, 1 tab and a desktop at same time.all of this are run normally. Also power consumption is very low...
4|The product doesn't connect Internet Service Provider's cable directly in the router's pin. We need to have one more dsl modem and then take the additional connection from modem's LAN port to Router's WAN Port and then its LAN port to our computer. So we need switch on primary modem's connection and the router's connection in order to avail internet connection. This is the difficulty I'm facing now, other than this the product is OK.
5|using it since last 3 months... nothing worried abt it... no hanging prob yet... speed depends upon ur internet packet.... For setup you will hv to confirm to ur ISP abt router....as he need to set mac-ip from der office.... Setup and installation can be done by urself at home with the help of CD or router's administrator console....
4|Router is good but the range is not great. I am using it in a 1300 sqft 3 bhk flat. I have installed it at the centre of the flat and is now covering the entire flat. For a bigger house I suggest to go for a higher model of the same brand. TP-Link is a good brand. I received the item before the promised delivery date.
5|I bought it for school use. The signal is clear up to 60 metres. After that up to 90 metres little signal.. Very useful to my school... Computer lab.. And so on... Now my school is purely under wireless network...
5|Best product for basic home use. Good wireless performance and coverage with dual 5dbi antenna. Very easy and hassle free setup. User-friendly control panel.
5|Signal range and speed are very much satisfactory. Installation setup was super smooth. Only the setup CD is not working. I have downloaded the setup from TP-Link website. But experience is so good that I can give the product 5 star.
5|Why i say awesome product because i have used this TP-link Brand ADSL modem before got this Router yesterday easy to install with the CD they had given and its working superb WiFi range is too good at a unbeatable price i would definitely recommend this Router...
3|Good product, range is good for two bedroom house.But having little problem with WiFi ON OFF button. You can ignore it as its for wireless use so no need to OFF it.
4|The product is awesome at this rate.When market price is about Rs.3000 then snapdeal gives it at just 1021.Speed is ok.But I cannot give 5star because the installation of this router is quite problem by the software CD given in its box.Without this it is great.
5|The product is best and the router also has a long range then the other,it also has 3 year of warranty,the product is value for money and the snapdeal service what to say about that best than other.
5|This is the first product I am buying of TP-Link. I got the product with in 2 days from the date of order. Installation was easy. It has a very good range of wifi signal. I am using this to connect my two desktop pc thru wifi &amp; excchange files. very good product from snapdeal with lowest price.
5|I am sure I bought the best low priced product but am enjoying great download and upload internet speeds from ACT Fibernet. Special thanks to SnapDeal for offering this product to me with delivery that beats my internet speed.
4|To be an honest reviewer for TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N). You may not get any product at this much of cost with these features. A budget product with better performance (wifi coverage is aprox. 1500 sqft. area). Easily accessibility and installation. Thank you Snapdeal Team.
5|Good for 3 BHK flat with no signal drop and no speed drop. Unlike my earlier wifi router, this is much better. Checked the speed and signal strength all over the corner, except balcony other areas are well covered. The best part is speed doesn't drop.
5|It gives static signal strength across 3 bhk flat....... Best for torrent download bcz it gives option to enable or disable UPnP divice. Nice looks.... support almost all broadbands... If any one is facing problem in connection in STATIC IP, contact your service provider because it is not fault of this router.I can say this bcz i have faced that problem but when providers have fixed problem from their end, this router started to work fine........... :)
5|Its not good but its great. after reading too much reviews i bought this and its worth the money.
4|Its good one, working fine.its working in my 2000sft at home, but I think it will working for 3000sft+ range…good signal…and range below 3floors also….thanks….
4|I have ordered this tp - link product through snapdeal and they were bang on delivering the product before the promised date. So hi 5 for that. Now on TP- link. It is easy to setup and works impeccably great. I use it in 3 bhk house and I get signal in all corners of my room..high 10:)
5|Excellent product signal quality is good
3|I was expecting it would work better than my 5 year old Belkin Router but this router does not even come close to my old routers signal strength. It does not work well when streaming videos. Very Slow through put. If you are expecting a good wireless range, get something else.
3|Pros : Range is pretty good. Uptime is 2 - 3 Days before a restart is required. Cons: 40Mhz does not work,it's needed for 300Mbps connection. For me all devices are connecting at 72Mbps to the router. Does not offer a wireless n only mode. only mixed modes.
3|TP Link removed N only Wireless mode in the latest firmware for this router, so now it uses Wireless bgn mixed mode which has terrible speeds. I'm barely getting 2MB /s over WiFi. But the Wired LAN is great, and I get 7.5 MB /s in my 60mbps connection. You can try flashing a different firmware, but it may be complicated for the average user.
4|Range is absolutely very good, comes with 3 years warantee. manual guidance book is very helpfull for installation. overall a good product. 2 antenna works with better signals. Wifi Range is actually good, it captures 1 up and 1 down floor too.
5|The router was great and Good performance. The reviews from YouTube also recommended that this is the best router in this budget. I have been using it for a week now and it Simply rocks. I have connected 40 mbps speed internet connection and the router gives wireless output speed up to 40 mbps.This product is worth buying.
5|Its rocking. No problems
4|The product is excellent and product very extremely good speed .It has a very long range which other router do not provide at such a low cost. The Mac filter allows only to connect those devices whose Mac address are entered allowing to restrict the connection of other unknown device.It has more pros than cons which i can't describe right now but i would recommend everyone to buy this if you are looking for long range router under 1000 rupees.
4|Easy to set up. Getting 2 bars in my master bedroom. But connection not bad with the signal.
4|great product, very easy to configure the router and connecting to the modem. The configuration does not need the CD, the same can be done using the 2 page quick guide in the router box. The router configures can be done by few easy steps. The router also has very good coverage across walls and across rooms.
5|excellent product in a very affordable price..very good wifi connection...awsm product
5|i used Cisco router which cost around 2200rs but this product must buy compare to Cisco this router having better signals in 2bhk house around every corner you can get min 2 signal that is sufficient i think. but Snapdeal Currier service is not good they delivered this product to me after 10 days.
5|Awesome Product 1) Easy to Setup 2) Long Range 3) Fast Speed 4) 3 Year Warranty 5) Good Customer Support.
3|I am experiencing poor Wi-fi Signal with the device.
5|Really pleased to use tp-link router, excellent speed, easy to install(10 minutes max). Thanks to snapdeal :)
5|I m using tp link wr841n 5 days now, no any problem very good product go for it, range 13-16 metre
4|The product serves the purpose well. I can access WiFi from any where in my house. Snap-deal delivered on time.
5|high coverage long range and with wi-fi enable disable push type on-off button. so u can easily turn off and on your wireless radio. i has 14 channel so u can select your for superb coverage in very crowded network areas of wi-fi. for that guidence u hae to download wi-fi analyzer for ur smart devices
5|Previously I had used Tp-links 150mbps router and I was satisfied so this time I bought 300 Mbps TL-WR841N, which is much better and have higher frequency. My router is placed in 1st floor and I can easily access net throughout all the floors and to every corner of my house. TP links routes are user friendly and give better security control by mac filtering and wireless control of the router.
5|Awesome router man.Thank you snapdeal for fast delivery. 1.Descent signal length and strength. 2.Speed is too good. 3.No heat and no signal fall. 4.I am using constantly about 3 days but no error. 5.No speed effect for connecting three or more smart phones or laptops. Thats it!!! Thanks TP-LINK for giving me the reliable choice and snapdeal for bringing it to me!
5|First router in our home and no argue this product.overall performance is best.very fast speed.range also large. Very easy set up.low weight. Free installation. All computer operating system compatible.secure also.not heat generates for 24 hour use.I Recommended this router with out any doubt.4 port available so many device use at a time.and wireless many device work at a time.
5|Hi, I had purchased this router from snapdeal and got delivery on time and it is perfect router in this price Range with 2 antenna for better Range
4|I have use this router past 1 month its working fine. &amp; I am happy with this deal.
5|Good performance and Good looking, cost economical, recommending to purchase
3|Range is limited given it has two antennas..cheap hence okay
5|I have brought this router 7 days ago brand is good trust me price is also very reasonnable its setup is very easy
5|Best product, 300mbps, best brand, best price, double antenna
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router excellent signal strength and it's very cheap compare to other company's.
5|Gave us better Wi-Fi reception than our expectation...easy to install..would recommend for small office or apartment of 1000sqft.
4|Good product, we didn't faced any issue.there is no damage on propduct and its easy to install and use
4|I have purchased "TP-Link 300Mbps wireless N Router". The product is very good. Installation is also very simple. Now its working very good.
5|Easy to connect and providing good network.
3|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is the best budget router with excellent wifi coverage &amp; good signal strength. However the product I have received on that One of the Antenna is lose, not satisfied with that, at snapdeal some times we get the lowest price but the quality of the product degrades, not satisfied with that.
5|Product is worth a buy as compared to other products. Delivery was on time as expected. No delay.. Good service Snapdeal.
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router, is very good and worth each and every paise which you have spent.. I am loving the product.
5|Works best for indoor use.Range is good for a 2 BKH flat .Not the best but its a good one.Satisfied.
5|Working fine with ACT connection. It's working fine in my 3 bhk flat. 4 phone 1 tv and 1 laptop
5|very good product signal length is also good
5|really very good range of wifi network easy quick setup is fastest way to installation for router
5|Vary good product easy to install i use 2 mobile and pc same time but speed not reducing and work vary speedy and smoothly
5|Very good range for 3 BHK apartment. There is no connectivity drop.
5|I received the product at a very good discount price.
5|its a very good product with reasonable price.
5|TP -Link 300 Mbps wireless N Router product is extremely satisfactory.
5|wireless signal is very nice i like it and nice product good value of money
5|It's awesome. Working range is good and no signal breaking issues have been found.
5|Easy to install and perform good. The size and shape are very nice.
4|i want from your side that is good &amp; quick service...
5|snap deal delivered the product only on 02 days
4|Need not to think much if you budget is around 1k. Go ahead
5|Excellent product... Received before time with no tampering or any damage to the product. Super service provided by snapdeal as always..
5|Product is good. Delivery on Time. price is opt.
5|its works very well, its covers good amount of area,itrs esy to use.
4|Good router in this range. Excellent in small network area.
5|thnx snapdeal for delivering this product with in 48hrs.the router is good at this price range.best for video streaming and gaming.it gives upto 25mbps speed in my 3 phones without any network droop.network range is good.the best thing about this router is stylish look and you will get 3 yr warrenty.go for it.
3|This Router is good....it really worth the price...
5|Packed n delivered in perfect condition. Superb product. Covers wide area. Installation was easy too.
5|Nice product. Recomanded. I have received in good condition and within 2 days of order. Working good.
4|Using this Product science last 4 days ... Going quite well. Though It disconnected now and then , I don't understand its for software problem or what ... Otherwise good. Decent range around 10m-15m. No problem running in windows 10. Best part i install it without CD. Just going to web browser and type 192.168.0.1 and its done.
4|this is very good product with comparison of price. you can buy, no problem at all.
1|Frequent loss of signal..Sanpdeal poeple please take out this product from your listing as it will hamper your cradibilty
5|Best product in best price.. Tnx to Snapdeal..
5|its worth the money,its the best and cheap compired to the other site
5|This router has most of the basic functionality &amp; also IP based Bandwidth control facility of individual user. Instant Snapdeal delivery.
5|What a router frends No errors Long connect Best router please everyone purchase this one
4|Powerfull network easy to use.its easy way of access to wifi from internet
1|signal drops at 209 feet range.. very bad product.
4|Its a very good product and very easy to install. Initially i thought it would require the Service Provider to help in installing the router at home. It hardly took 10 mins to install and setup the router for connecting my other devices through wireless network.
4|Using it for the past 3 months no issues and easy to install
4|As expected TP-Link turned out to be a good product. Honest review buy it...!
5|IT IS A GOOD PRODUCT WITH TWO ANTENAS AND PERFECT SIGNALS.EVEN WITHA RESET BUTTON AND FOUR LAN PORTS
5|One of the best price &amp; product in its price range &amp; prompt delivery by Snapdeal. Dil ki Deal !!!
4|It is not bad, it is giving enough range signal to 2BHK.
5|Jst value for money product. All most cover 3 bhk apartment. Easy to set up no need to b techno geek..
2|Router has low range than other routers.router is only giving range upto 50 To 70 meter.i expected more from tp link router.but my rxpection fails
5|Its cheap from ol oder shopping apps and the service is very good u can get any product u wish to look for
4|using it since last 3 months, no complaints so far!
5|Value for money.. I have been using this now for almost 2 years.. still no probs..
3|the range is good but not as expected. but its a value for money..
5|Has been using it fr quite a few days and it hasn't been disappointing.. There is also no issues of heating. Very easy to setup also
5|Last weak I get TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router this is perfect for me and snapdeal service is wonderful. Thank you snapdeal good job.
4|I configured this router easily Now able to access internet on My desktop,laptop, tablet and Android phone ;)
5|awesome product at an awesome price......
4|not bad to use.some time i face a prov with this.but snapdeal is a go online sopping. o happy with that delivery
5|The product is very good n i like it. The network spread effective.
4|if the router is installed in one room, there is be poor signal in other room.
5|Its a value for money router. Good signal strength and range But very bad service by courier. It took 4 days to deliver this from Delhi to Gurgaon.
5|The delivery was very quick compared to other sites. This router has option in wireless to force disconnect any connected device.
4|I bought this Routers to access Home net on my Cell phone. Speed of the net on mobile is excellent....better than any 2G network....
5|This is very fast TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N). Snapdeal is very fast delivery. Thanks snapdeal.
3|tp link router is nice but your logistic service is bad
5|Offline retailer use to sell same product for 1.5 times or more price.
5|the product is running very good....... no heating problem......
3|I live in. A bungalow...it doesn't reach to the next floor..poor in range..but good option at this price..no cons other than this
4|Installation is very easy and this product is cost effective. Presently I am using for past 10 days, I am happy with performance.
5|Before registering your router's Mac id please check at least one time the Mac id in the web. Don't rely on the Mac id printed below the router
5|I got it delivered in a nice pack within in 2 days. And using Router since 3 weeks and working perfectly. Wifi signal is strong enough to serve my two floor house. It's very nice looking also.
5|Easy to setup... Reliable... Been using this past 2 years and have recommended to my friends and relatives... Cheapest Dual Antennae router... Definitely a VFM product.
5|Working perfectly,Very easy to setup, wide range , getting good signals in every corner of my 3 BHK flat.Worth buying this product at this price of ~900 INR.
4|I order TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) on 7th june and recived 11th june. snapdeal packed this awesome and the perfomance of this router is great. it's drop One signal for 30 feet with two wals but speed don't slow. after all i happy with this Tp-Link 300 mbps router.
1|dont buy this prodcut. and no customer support. if you face any problem with this device, no one can responde. just dumped it. other than that we cont do anything. with in 6 months, I have face problem with this device, I have 3 years warranty. but no use. no one can responding. pls dont buy any one.
1|The product seems inferior in quality as it is highly discounted. I am not satisfied as the router does not cover the range within my single storey home. it is poor lower than 150N model.
3|Pro: The version I received was v9.2 which is compatible with openwrt and ddwrt. Con: It comes with a 5Dbi antenna which is oddly under-powered. I have a netgear 614 with 2Dbi antenna which covers more radius than this so-called 5Dbi router.
2|The product is working good and delivery was fast... the range is not as expected though, a single antenna one is covering same range as this 2 antena is doing
5|bought 2 products..one 1 .5 years age and another 3 months..so far perfect .covers both ground floor and 2 nd floor when placed in 1 st floor. easy installation. no hiccups so far. thanks snapdeal..
5|I have been using it for 2 weeks now. It is working fine. The range of modem is good and it doesn't heat much. Interface to control is also well designed.
5|Excellent service and great buying experience from SnapDeal. Wonderful product, I recommend to everyone who want high speed networking and high range networking at the lowest price.
5|The perfect router under 1k price range with dual antenna... The range of the router is also good... Just installed in my home and feels awesome... Thumps Up for the tp-link And For Snapdeal too... #Diwali... #DilkiDaelwali
5|Setting up was easy actually very easy.Just plugged the lan cable from my bsnl broadband connection and inserted the cd and it automatically setted it up.Looks very modern techy thing.Finish is awesome.And its is tough to.Antennas are not extendable.
5|I bought TL-WR841N wifi router form snapdeal. i ordered it on 16th Oct 15 and dealer delivered it on 18th within 2days. Its pretty good router worth for money. as it is only 1 week, so far it has been good. i will definitely recommend for small office or home use.
5|Smart Router for Great Price , Amazing performance , been using it for more than a fortnight now &amp; very much impressed by this tiny sweet designed Gadget &amp; its Powerful working potential. Undoubtedly its a choice that makes sense...
5|Excellent router for home wi-fi broadband needs.Hassle-free installation and easy to use.On top of that,awesome delivery service by Snapdeal.Got my router delivered on SUNDAY whereas all other online shopping sites delivery service is null on Sundays.
5|It is easy to install and user friendly . this router comes up with two antenna that enables me to do surfing flawlessly at ground floor while my router is placed at 4th floor. it has been a good experience with this router.
5|Bought this router few days back. It is simply an awesome device. Can support high speed internet connection. Easy to use and set up. Snapdeal delivered it quite quickly even during the mega sale days.
5|This product is very nice it works every where in my home , Low rate , nice speed in this range its very Nice Product &amp; a very special thanks to snap deal for its better and fast service the product is reached in 3 days.
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) Is One Of The Best Router In This Price Range. Gives Best Performance Totally Paisa Vasul Router. With Two Antennas Provide Maximum Wireless Coverage And Reliability. Streaming Very Fast So You Can Work Many Wireless Device At a Time.
5|The Wireless router is very good. Coverage is excellent and signal strength is also comfortable. serves multiple devises without any problems. Thank you Snapdeal Thank you TP-Link.
4|A good product that serves the need of a wifi router.But the signal quality is low.I only get it to 1 or 2 rooms in my house.When i go further away,I get faint signal or no signal at all.But otherwise,No complaints.
4|The item was delivered on COD basis with 2 phone calls. It was repacked in a card box with Snap Deal tape around. I opened the box and found the original packing in tact. This is a good practice to avoid pilferage during deliveries. Good Strategy by Snap Deal.! The product is simple 'SNAP-ON'. Yes, i simply opened the Router and plugged-in the Internet RG-45 connector to the TPLINK and it started blinking. Then Laptop and Iphones simply worked with Password given on back of Router. VOILA !! I been using since past one week 24/7 and it is very convenient. I kept in middle floor and is good for both floors up and bottom of the Router. Simply incredible and SnapDeal's price is unbeatable by any standards. No need of tedious installation also. I recommend it to all non-WiFi home owners to have this product and it will surely win all the hearts of the family members to your surprise. This is a Good Gift to other homes in this season because it is as simple as gulping a Sweet Savoury. People will remember your good gift for long (yes, i found many reviews which said about more than 1 year of usage) Thank you Snap Deal and TPLINK for this wonderful product to homes.!!!
4|I received this order y-day from snapdeal. Delivery time - 4/5 (they gave initial estimation of 8-9 days but delivered in 3 days.) Packaging - 4/5 Quite good packaging Usability of the product - 4/5 Very simple, took just 2-3 minutes for overall setup. Recommendations: 4/5 Maybe a very reliable &amp; cheapest solutions if usage is simply "connect your wireless device".
5|Got delivered within time. And appropiate range of this router suitable for domestic use such as apartments and homes. Snapdeal also packed the item in such a manner that if the product inside the package remains unharmed. Simply 1 word "GO FOR IT" reasonable price Setting up the router is also very easy via installatiob disk provided in the package or you can just visit [tplinkwifi.net] from ur phone or pc after having the router connected via WAN port at the back of the router. It also provides additional usage upto 4 computers simultaneously and unlimited wifi devices along cross platforms..
5|Pros 1. DD-WRT flashable,snapdeal is currently selling v10 but there's a beta build available for it now from DD-WRT team 2.Range is adequate for a 1200 sqft apartment 3. Offers nice features out of the box thus normal users may not need to flash it with dd-wrt for extra features. 4. No connection drops. Cons 1. Lights are kinda dim.
4|It is very easy to setup and use this router with its user friendly GUI. Product build is neat, looks nice, has critical information label, additional features like hard switch for wifi. At the offered price, it is really a good deal for a 300mbps router. Giving 1 star less because- 1. Signal range is not great and gets easily obstructed with room walls. Despite of having two antenae and 5 dBi output, I struggle to get average signal in other rooms. 2. very dim lit LED indicators. Summary: If you are not looking for a big range, it's a steal deal at this price and features.
4|Using it for past 4 days. Great performance till now. No problem of the router getting hang, as in some of the D-Link products. Wi-Fi works well across 2-3 rooms. Speed always remains consistent and never fluctuates(Though, this also depends on your Internet Service Provider(ISP)). A very good product overall.
5|This product and dealing with Snapdeal is amazing. But only the worst thing is courier service. My suggestion is that Snapdeal can avoid courier dealing Go Java's company because they have done a worst courier service which I have not seen ever from online purchase. Updating the delivery status always fake in their tracking side.
5|I've been using it for one month now and so far there is no problem with it. My home is using ethernet cable for internet connection so I have to plug it in my laptop but sadly the internet is so slow. Using this product make my internet connection faster and I can download everything faster compared to using ethernet cable with my laptop,
5|This product is more than awesome. I installed it in my 2 story house. the signal strength is superb in all over the house, and range is strangely high. installation and setup is very easy. and owner can keep control over others' Internet usage strongly.in such a low price, this is best choice.. go for it blindly..
5|first good thing about this product is easy to configure even you don't have knowledge of configuration. Just follow 3-4 simple to get router configure, rest setting will be done automatically by router. Good range, good speed. Easy to manage via web portal you can restrict user access by MAC filtering light weight &amp; 4 LAN ports for wired connection You can connect other wifi router to extend the range Security feature to prevent from external attack &amp; So many good feature &amp; this is all in just cheap price.
4|I ordered this router on 13 OCT and as usual Snapdeal delivery was great... Thanks a lot for snapdeal!!!! Review about Router - It has two antenna so it has great range....but you need to place the router in good position so that it can acquire good range. As suggested, Best practise is keep router at some height so that waves will cover entire your home. its totally PERFECT for 1000-1500 sq ft area. Data Transfer rate is awesome. Easy to configure. You can keep filter on MAC ID. Means ONLY Those device which you have mentioned in Router Configuration can able to access your internet. This feature gives more security to the user. Even if your password gets known to someone, He can not access your internet if his MAC ID is registered in Router Configuration. I hope this review is helpful to all. Worth to buy in MONEY point of view. AND PERFECT OF CAUSAL USERS and mid high end users as well.
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. There are a no. of 300N Wifi routers but compared to the price and reliability it is a winner. I've been using it for the past 3 months and the following are my findings about the router: Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - All required instructions for easy setup are provided. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support (Just Google 'DD WRT' for details). However, I was unable to use the feature as DD WRT firmware for V9 is not available. Also it voids warranty. - Physical Power AND Wi-Fi switch present. Which means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical LAN connection. - 4 LAN ports present. - It can also be used as range extender. - Has 2 non-detachable antennas for boosting Wi-Fi. I've installed the router in 1st floor and get 1-2 bars in ground &amp; 2nd floor and just outside on the road. Also my tab shows 1 bar while on the roof top of my 3 storey building. So, its coverage is good to average. Data/Internet speed has little effect on the available no. of bars. - It can share loads of data via Wi-Fi &amp; LAN network. I had successfully converted my tab into Wi-Fi virtual keyboard, mouse &amp; gamepad/joystick. - Wall mounting can also be done. - 3 Years Replacement Warrenty. Cons:- -Well as such no serious problems have been faced till date. My only concern is its white colour which looks great but is likely to get dirty sooner or later. - Unnecessary heating problem can be avoided by installing it in an open space. Overall it is the cheapest router available in the market at present with loads of feature on offer. It is highly recommended for those who want cheap router with reliability, security &amp; loads of features.
5|Awesome router, works perfectly without signal drop and with great deal of security. Can't ask more. Only issue, please provide a longer LAN cable. Thanks for the awesome Product!
4|Been a week time working good range better than my previous TP Router but still if its inside a room getting a signal in your hall is tough but u still get one.
4|I received the product from SNAPDEAL on time. Packaging was also good. Router is good as per its description. Signal strength is also good , covers 3-4 rooms with quality signal strength whereas internet speed depends on ISP.
5|Affordable and promptly delivered, easy to set up and it started giving expected level of service right from the word go. Have just used it for a week though but no problem whatsoever, so far.
5|The installation cd and set up instructions are vey easy to follow.Perfect Range and Admin Interface . Very easy admin access and well arranged admin page . Awesome streaming speed .
5|I needed a router with basic facilities and this one's just what i was looking for.. very good range and a decent speed support.. wired and wireless can be used together with ease.. setting up is also a breeze.
5|- Well Packed, - Delivered on time, - At a Reasonable Price - Working is good, - Good product Design, - Well ventilated, &amp; Doesn't heat up - Online Product Guide/Assistance is Good - Easy Setup - Good or Sufficient wi fi Range - Overall Thumbs Up.......
5|I just bought this router a week ago..its working really well.. The product is more dan worth the money..This product is really amazing..It doesn't reduce the speed, maintain stability and the range frequency is soo good.. im referring this products to all my friends
5|one of the best routers for home use. has 4 lan ports as well. wifi range is good. seetting up is very easy. noobs can even do it by themselves. overall happy with the product
5|This is what u need .... Having a good quality of product with fast delivery ... Quality- Easy to config. easy to manage ,less SPACE required .... Long range of Wireless Connectivity..... Fast speed
5|I Purchased the Tp-Link wireless router from the snapdeal the router was delivered in 1 days that was a great experience from snapdeal.The router speed is nice the network coverage of the router connect to my mobile in every Conner of the house.The look of the Tp-Link wireless router is nice.I will definitely tell my friend and family members to purchase from snapdeal.....
5|Product is working well. Lowest price in Snapdeal. I am in a 1 BHK and signal strength is very good. Switched on 24/7 but no heating issue. Snapdeal delivered the product earlier than they mentioned (got it in 2 days). Thank you Snapdeal.
4|If tou are looking for 5BHK or flat I will recommend this product .. Don't try to configure via CD its not working I tried 4-5 times .. Just follow steps to configure via web .. It's easy and simple ...
5|My ISP provides 100 Mps Internet speed , and it working fine from the day it was installed , today is 10 th day and I am happy with this product and happy with snap deal too that they deliver me this product in 2-3 day at very reasonable cost .
4|I was confused so much for what types of router should I try.. But, now my mind is clear that the router which I choose is 100% value for money. It covers almost my 1300 squrefeet area whith excellent signal... I used 100 Mbps broadband connection &amp; no problem at all while I use by wifi router.. No speed issue. So, I am 100% satisfied with this product. I may like to give 1 more star if snapdeal cutoff that delivery time...
5|I installed it a week back. Very easy installation. I placed it centrally in my house. Since then it is working PERFECTLY alright. Its signal spreads in all the rooms. I advise potential buyers to go for it and work peacefully without interruption.
4|Needs improvement on distance when they claim 802.11n protocol as the transmission distance is much lesser and signal become week in 15 meters itself. Same performance with TPLink Pocket Router. Then what is the difference in having 2 antennas. But I trust TP-Link as the signal is stable and reliable connection.
5|it has a great wireless coverage and two powerful antennas that maximizes the range . it has great functionality many options in setting menu it is easy to set up and need not to be configured once set up. it don't show any error and can be continuously used for many days without restarting. according to me its the best wifi router with an unbelievable price point.
4|With the dual antennas and 300mbps capacity, this router makes an ideal Wifi router for home purpose. The signal strength is quite strong even after 3-4 walls!
3|Expensive with poor features. Belkin is cheap and has same wifi range. Overall not satified with router firmware and wifi range. Belkin had separate guest password feature which was very important to me. Should have bought belkin.
5|This product is really good since i am using this company from last 5 years in my network as being a service provider.. The best part is that i would to like to thank snapdeal for selling it at a very low price which saves my money.if this rate is continued then on regular basis will order this product
4|Definitely a good designed product with fixed anteena. 1WAN &amp; 4LAN ports which is useful for small office and personal use. Speed is great, with a connection speed of 4MBPS am getting the rated speed. There are lots of security features at this price range which is a plus. Quality of material used is good. Can be used for 2BHK Flat. The range of WIFI signal reduces drastically in between wall of adjacent rooms. Overall satisfied.
5|*Has really good range due to the dual antennas *Cheap cost compared to other dual antenna routers *Build quality is nice although made of plastic *Lightweight and portable *The setup didnt work for me so i installed it manually which is easy by itself *Gives the maximum internet connection speed without any data loss
5|Good product with reliable performance. Keep your expectation on rage to 2 walls before you buy. Would highly recommend for a 3BHK house but certainly not for floors above. I would rate 7/10.
5|About Snapdeal™- I bought this router in July 2015. Snapdeal™ delivery was very prompt with very nice packaging of product. About Product- Pros- 1. Router is best for this price range 2. WiFi signal range is about 30-35ft which is good for basic home usage 3. Layman friendly interface &amp; installation procedure Cons- 1. Even with 2 antennae range is same as that of TL-WR740N router with 1 antenna. 2. Not recommended for multi storeyed home. 3. Occasional delay in auto dialing of PPPoE connection.
5|This is my third Router, &amp; Now I am Satisfied finally. It has got a really long range without any obstructions. Believe me, For daily usage &amp; For beginners too, This is the best as It has got several features which can be configured ,&amp; the best thing is that U can control Bandwidth &amp; IP address of each device that connects to it. It looks awesome too :D Just gor for it.
5|Excellent product by the tp-link company, it work perfectly with my 10mbps connection speed. This is my first Router. first of all it is really worth it pros :- excellent,easy to setup, fast,lightweight,GOOD range and Better connectivity. I think this is best router in this price range. cons :- Nothing found it till now.
4|Bought this router (TL-WR841N) couple of weeks back and have not faced any issues so far. I got v9.3 Range is decent for a 2bhk (750 sq ft)...if installed at one end, the wifi range is at single bar on the other extreme end. Installing wasn't an issue although i had to do it using web based settings instead of cd. For some reasons the cd installation did not work. Could be some issue at my end. However, took less than 5 minutes for installation.
4|Pros: - Sleek design - Easy to set up - Fast Cons: - Perfect for a 1BHK flat. But for a 2 BHK flat, the WiFi range drops for a farther room. - Feels a little tacky, and may break if it falls from a height.
4|The TP link wireless router is good enough within the house if we go beyond that the signal strength is weak overall it's a good buy go for it and it is also at affordable price with two antenna wifi router..
5|Low Price, Nice Packing and prompt delivery. Perfect router home use. It's very easy to setup with or without cd and after setup just forget everything. Only switch on the router and enjoy hi speed wifi all over your home. I was not familiar with TP-link prodects, so I think many times before order. But after purchase and used I can say "This product is really value for your money."
5|AS usual Snapdeal delivers the product in just one and half day after placing the order. The product is well wrapped in plastic cover placed in snapdeal's box along with TP link box. Coming to product The range is good it is covering my 1 BHK room with all five markings of WIFI. Product gives me the same speed as directly using lan connection. It is giving me 45-50mbps speed for torrent downloads. I had connected 3 smart phones and one laptop working well and there is no buffering while watching YouTube videos at 1080p. But sometime more specifically 2-3 times in 7 days for my laptop I suffered from some disconnections but after disconnect and reconnect the network works well. After all the product is good and you will get it at lowest price on snapdeal.
4|Chose this router after quite a bit of online research. My primary requirement was good range. I was about to go for the D-Link 605L, having had good experience with the D-Link DIR-505 (a small but brave repeater that's not afraid of taking on "router" duties in a pinch). However, in the end, these swung it in favor of the TP-Link: - Good reviews on the net. - DD-WRT compatibility. - Unbeatable price on Snapdeal. I do not plan on installing DD-WRT, but it's nice to know I can should I get the fancy or actually need to. My old Netgear router kept dropping connections and I did not have the option of installing open-source 0's and 1's on that one. I'm very happy with the range and performance of this device. It's perfect for a small house or apartment. Across a wall or two, you'll notice one fewer "bar" on your smartphone/tablet. However, that's still enough to hit 20 Mbps in my testing with the "Sensorly" app. More than enough juice for a few concurrent sessions of HD video from that great purveyor in the sky...
4|The product we bought is TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N), it has two antennas. The signal strength is good across a single wall, and is really bad if you have a double wall(one of my friends lives just in front of my room(just some 10-20 meters across) and for him the signal strength drops drastically when we close our respective doors). For people who share internet and live in two different rooms(mainly in hostels), its better to go with two single antenna routers and with LAN cable connected between them(A little bit costly but worth it!). To conclude, I think the router works just fine with no complexities and I am satisfied(as the router is installed in my room :), though the person who lives just across is not for obvious reasons). The range of this product just works fine for one home, if you know what I mean. Hope this helps :)
5|Background: My old Buffalo router had given me 7+ years of service and now it was time to replace it because I was facing frequent disconnections, very slow booting and it had become highly unreliable in general. Initially I purchased a Digisol router from Snapdeal. Apart from the cheap price the fact that they say its 'made in India' swayed my decision towards Digisol. Apparently I made a mistake because the Digisol proved to be quite unreliable as well. I have a Tikona internet connection and it would go down frequently using Digisol Router. The less said about it - the better. I returned it to Snapdeal and purchased TP Link 841N. Looks: This TP Link 841N router looks quite premium. The plastics are good and feel sturdy in your hands. I installed it and upon Tikona's advice I disabled the inbuilt firewall because it was sometimes blocking/delaying the dynamic IP address assignment to my router. The range of this router is quite good. Much better than others. It boots/restarts pretty quickly, looks good hanging on the wall and is very inexpensive. I notice that there is a price war going on between Amazon and Snapdeal these days and they both are pricing the products very aggressively. Good for us customers. :-) Software: As for teh software and features I think most routers in this price range let's say from Rs. 850 to rs. 2000 have very similar software and features set. I think that many of these use similar processors and chipsets and a stock software which every company rebrands as per its needs. I may be wrong but I can't help assuming that. Conclusion: The bottomline is that you will not regret purchasing this router. I have used Dlink 615 router as well (borrowed for 2 days from a friend) and I can say TP link is as good if not better. Comes highly recommended in this price range.
5|I have been using this Router and here is what I think : Its a very good router for a normal user. 1) The setup is very easy 2) Signal strength is very good 3) Stock firmware provides almost all the basic functions that a user may need. If you think the stock firmware does not fulfill your needs, you can go ahead and install Open-Wrt / dd-wrt . I have tried both and this was one of the main reason I bought this router. If you do flash Open-Wrt or dd-wrt , I will suggest dd-wrt . I installed Open-Wrt (Beta) first. It's a little hard to get it up and running as compared to dd-wrt. And the major downside is that it offers very limited functionalities as compared to stock. For additional one's you will have to install custom modules available which you won't be able to because the router has very limited RAM as compared to others. So flashing Open-Wrt basically makes no sense. Then I flashed dd-wrt (Beta) .I would definitely recommend this if you want to add some extra functions. Very easy to flash. Easy to configure.There are lots of things you can customize like QOS, Radius Authentication for added security, Signal boost and many more I have features that I have not used till now. Cons: 1)There are no problems if you don't plan on flashing a custom firmware. If you want to flash custom firmware: 1) The limited amount of RAM restricts you from installing modules when you switch to Open-Wrt . 2) The lack of a USB port . We could have used it to connect to a Printer for getting a wifi functionality or maybe other storage devices. If it had a USB port we could have installed extra modules for Open-Wrt and even use it to download stuff from internet without even keeping our system on for the whole day (which crazy downloaders like me have to :P ) And the fact that very few routers are available in India easily which support these other firmware's ( I could only find this :P ) makes it a very good purchase. The router is working fine. Struggled little bit to connect. The router has a password on it which we need to input to connect it for configuration. But his has not been mentioned in the quick guide!. But otherwise set up was breeze!. Loving it!. Hopefully for long time FINALLY amazing product! amazing price! amazing shipping! amazing SNAPDEAL
5|Let me just get to the important points to consider while buying this router: 1. Firstly, this router actually has a 550 MHz CPU in it!! Very powerful and required for providing bandwidth to the dozens of devices connected simultaneously nowadays. TP-Link should actually mention this on the box as a major selling point! 2. The wireless range is decent and quite a lot better than other dual antenna routers. Covers &amp; provides a stable connection on all corners of a 1,800 sq.ft. flat through walls, doors. 3. Customisable firmware which can unleash it's true potential. Great price which makes this an excellent value product.
5|This Router is awesome . - Good Router at low price. - Awesome wi-fi signal coverage . - Easy to setup. - 3-year Warranty. - Fast Delivery By snapdeal. - If you are a nut for specs, yes its got all the bells and whistles like the dual 5dbi antanae's, a good amount of RAM and all that kind of stuff. - The Stock firmware has alot to offer. - A good looking, somewhat compact router. - DD WRT firmware support - Physical Power AND wifi switch. Yes WIFI switch means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical Lan connection. two stars for that. - WORKS GOOD WITH CABLE NET like GTPL. no any issue -This router, will be a winner for you especially if you have a lot of devices connected to it, sharing loads of data within the network. We're talking of something in the range above 200 Mb/s. Or even if you're a gamer and you like to have your friends over to have a Co op among-st yourselves, it will comfortably take the task without any glitch's because its got such a wide bandwidth.
5|great experience to purchase in one day delivery option to pay 99 rupee extra and got that product in day after tommorw. TP-link prodct is always good quality product. new things which have in this router. 1. 5dbi radio frequency transmission. 2. bandwidth allocation. 3. virtual server/ port forwarding is easily to implement as compare to D-link router. 4. work great upto 50 mbps bandwidth speed. so, if u plan to buy this product my choice is to buy first and see the effiecient and effective work done by this router.
5|Awesome .......just amazing
3|Good Wi-Fi Range not as expected
2|When electricity goes &amp; again comes back, the router fails to reconnect. It wastes too much of my time to reconnect it. Plz guide me in this issue.
4|cheap and best but sometimes there is a networking problem
4|Nice product from TP-Link. Satisfy with the speed and perfornance. Range is quite poor, and can improve it, otherwise nice product.
5|Signal strength is very good. Double antennas covers area effectively. Good product from TP-Link. Go for it.
5|very good performance.non stop working,so far no problem.very reasonable price compare to market price.
5|Good product..good service by Snapdeal..paisa vasool
5|Perfect one! !! No doubt in biyong it
4|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is good product.This deal was Great value for money.
4|This product is very good in cheap price easy to set up.
1|Wifi Inner room coverage is not good, I think this not suitable for home use
5|At this rate this Router is good and also have a pretty decent range.
3|Speed does not increase as shown in specifications
4|In Easy SetUp Version network is not easily connected PPOE Internet connection problem Otherwise TP-Link is Good.
5|excellent in working ...!! can be connectd to computer easily... !! small circuit...!! has a wide range with good performance and speed..!!
1|No modem only router. Saperat modem has to b purchased...
5|Iam Using this product since 1 week Iam unable to find any difficulties in configuring this product.
3|Pros: Easy on pocket Cons: Wi-fi range not up to expectations (it's a double antenna)
5|Very good product for wifi network no complaint so after installation forget complaint
5|like the product very much...works perfectly...thanks snap deal for giving this wonderful product at a wonderful price..
5|I am satisfy with the product quality and price. Thank you snapdeal.....
5|I already had one of this modem before purchasing it from snapdeal, it's working properly and having no complaint at all. I received it within 4 days.
1|internet is getting cut every hour, range is also very less than &lt; 50 meters. overall a very bad experience.
4|TP-LINK 300 Mbps Wireless N Router Awsome speed and i m very happy . Thankyou Snapdeal.
5|Using it since last 4 months. No issues found yet.
5|Tp-link 300 mbps router price good &amp; tplink all model good work no complaint
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is the economic in price and easy to install. All the it is a rugged one
2|unhappy with range compare to other brand of 300 mbps raouter
4|recently i bought this TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) its working good and i am happy with it..
5|Very reasonable price. Easy to connect &amp; configure.
5|I'm using this router from last 7 months.it's a good router and good covering range in a fair price.
4|Wifi Performance level is not up to the mark
4|Easy to setup. Working fine. Cheaper than other brands.
5|range is good and speed is also good. we can setup network quickly.
5|excellent product excellent product excellent product
5|Good product at this price.. I recommend this....
5|It's a nice compact router that started functioning from day 1. Great value for money and accesories are also enough and guide is also provided
5|it is working good.the range of it up to its limit.i prefer tp-link best modem 300 mbps wireless n router.
5|Item is awesome and after order next day i got it, thanks for snapdeal
5|Service is good ... I get within 3 days..so I m HAPPY with this product &amp; total Paisa vasool
5|Bought it about 20 days back. Probably the best 300 Mbps router under 1000/-. This is perfect for the home usage. Pros : 1) Signal Range :- Signal range is pretty good, can cover whole floor and ground floor as well (as my room is on first floor where the router is located). 2) Speed :- As usual it is way better then TP-link's 150 Mbps router (if you are confuse between 150 and 300 Mbps router then I would recommend 300 Mbps router, you just have to pay 200-250 more to experience way better performance). 3) Easy to Install :- Easiest user manual I have ever been gone through. Takes approx 5-7 minutes to finish the installation. 4) Value for money :- It is cheap as compare to other routers, cheap in terms of money not quality. Cons : Yet to find.
5|Best site... Best products... With best rate... With quick delivery!
5|Perfect as per description.... good product to use best for the price... go for it..... good range and no problems dected as of now
5|Found the product for very good price, the network covering range is fantastic, paisa vassol product
5|very competative rate and geniune product i like it very much thank you snapdeal.
5|Router is good enough and its features are easy to understand
4|Buy bindast...works fine..no problem till date
5|It work flawlessly without any Load / drop in the signal It has high range which can cover 2000 Ft easily and with wall obstruction 1000 sqft minimum(depends upon the location you keep in your house). The less obstruction the more range,so choose a location centrally keeping this in mind. Tp-link support is also good in INDIA(cities only).Still it is easy to setup.
5|This is a useful product. Easy to install.
4|Nice product . Best buy if you need a budget router with good performance
5|this router increases my internet speed......
4|Good Router in Good Price Thank You Snapdeal This deal Really dil ki deal Now I will always buy from Snapdeal
5|Nice nice excellent excellent
4|Nice &amp; Durable product, I am happy with the product &amp; got a good deal from Snapdeal.
5|Best router at lowest price... Works well also has dual antenna....
5|Excellent product nothing against issues
5|got a router that works perfectly and that too at a very cheap rate..must buy!
5|Best affordable router with good wifi range
5|Genuine product .... Purchase it ????
5|Its a best product. It goes on distance &amp;cloud facility is available. I loved it.
5|GOOD RANGE DOES NOT GET HANG &amp; GOOD SIGNAL STRENGTH ALSO FOR MULTI USERS
4|signal range and speed is good enough. Able to connect up to 8 meters.
4|Good router with very good signal strength
4|nice product at nice price quick delivery
5|This is a 300mbps router and available for an excellent price as compared to its substitutes. The connection speed is reliable and consistent. There are no connection drops noticed and the coverage is relatively good for the price offered. Its only available in white colour, which tends to fade over a period of time when kept outdoors. Black is a better option. However this could be overlooked considering that one is getting a 300mbps dual antenna router for less than Rs.1000 Am very satisfied with the performance, although an equivalent specs Linksys would give a wider coverage if one is liberal with the price constraint.
5|It is working very well without any trouble.
5|awsum,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,nyc product from tp-link in this price range
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is very very good working modem
5|Good product. Easy installment and good coverage of wifi. Easy to connect multiple device. Fast delivery.
5|It's Very good in low price and it's gives near 30 - 40 feet around distance
5|this was delivered within fewer days than i expected and the quality is really good....this router covers my 2 storied home brilliantly wih its signal
5|Best router in this range , speed &amp; area coverage is also good.
4|working well no problem yet. Delivery was very slow. otherwise everything was good.
5|Product is very good. Wi Fi coverage (distance wise) is also very good. In one word, I am completely satisfied with the product.
5|Nice product.. Easy to set up and installation. Must buy for internet users for home and office. Good wifi range at multi stored building.
4|its really a good product. I hv placed this in 1st floor and I can access internet in ground floor too. the signal strength is good in both the floor and speed is also good. I'm using it for connecting my pc, mobiles. the internet speed which I get directly in my pc is also available in my mobile through wifi. so this product is value for money.
5|very nice product and very fast delivery by snapdeal
4|The router is the best amongst the price sector Great coverage of network.
4|It comes with good package. Also it have it own app to control it. Best!!!
4|good product at good price, working fine signal strength is good , received in 3 days from snapdeal in good condition.
5|i happy and satisfied withis product also suggest adapter for this product , please tell me thje range of product in m
5|Nice and Very Good Price.....................
5|This is a good one router i have been using....
4|easy to setup TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N).
5|Too Good, good range and speed. Worth the price
5|It was my first experience with snapdeal and I must say it's awesome delivery was quick awesome
5|Excellent device.. Quick to set up.. Good Speed. Good Signal.
5|Very good speed very good price very good range mera best tp link router best range for ground floor and 3rd floor thanks for Snapdeal thanks
5|I recommend to this route because of range is good and can't decrease speed of internet connection.
5|The range of this router is very gud and it comes with double antenna of 5dBi
4|Good....................................................................
5|Just perfect wireless router range is very good everything works fine...
4|Good product. On time delivery and working good
1|Not good signal in theTP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router
5|Its a good router with a good range. No connection drops even 2 floors below. Best router under 1k. GO FOR IT!
5|Snapdeal has awesome delivery i gt in 1day. Router is fast and original as i expected.. good price value dan other app.. Thank You snapdeal.
5|Very low price from market.. I love this router... Perfect product... hi speed
4|Works well, no drops but range is slightly lower than expected
5|not a problem till today.............................................................................
5|it is a very good product. the instalation is very easy ,trensmition power is good ,coverage area is lotmore then i expect
5|Tp link router is rock.ths is a good product with a good quality. I like it vry much thanks snapdeal for such type of deal
5|this is Just awesome product, simply read the instructions and install this very easy. i felt difficulty to install this as first time i was installing Wireless Router but i read the instructions well and then follow the CD mannuals and then connected it, and called to my ISP as well and he instructed me well. Now i am using this without any issue and this is just superve Product. i can get Network access at any corner in my Building and even other nearby Buildings too. Just an Awesome\Great Product and you can go for it. Thanks Sanp Deal thanks to all.. : )
5|Being a new home owner is a great feeling. But acquiring all amenities is a nightmare. The first and foremost is communication, in most of our cases its Internet. After checking with my ISP, I zeroed on router without modem. A small research came up with TP-Link, which was cheapest in Snapdeal. The order placement was a breeze, and the courier came in specified time of 3 days. UnBoxing The box had a safety container for the safety of device. Ethernet cable provided is very helpful. Installation This was the most easiest part. The instruction guide was with screenshots which made the process fast and easy. The whole process finished in less than 10min. The wifi signals are good in next room away by 20-25 feet and with door Connectivity upto 4 devices tried till now. Its one of the cheapest and most effective devices around. Go for it...
5|Having seen so many questions on this and having been confused myself when looking to purchase a router, I had done a detailed research and decided to buy this one for my home connection. second things .. the router is very easy to install without any CD/DVD. Just connect the router using the supplied LAN cable, switch it on and go to http://tplinklogin.net OR http://192.168.1.1 OR http://192.168.0.1 and put routers username and password mentioned on the bottomside of the router and then it will give you the same setup options available in the CD. It's very easy to install and will take less than 5 minutes
5|1. First of all thanks to TP link to giving us a awesome simple user friendly interface, Just 2 to 4 mnts and setup is complete :) ( Netagear &amp; D link Interface is too confusing and boring ) 2. Wifi range is awesome, I have 5MBS connection and receive 80% speed even in 1 signal between 25 to 30 meter. 3. Connections and Speed are very stable even if you have 1 signal 4.Snapdeal delivery is best, I got this product withing 20hrs. 5. Just go on and buy this without hesitation
5|Packaging and Delivery: Just perfect.I ordered this on Nov 01 . I was promised a delivery between Nov 05-08. I was pleasantly surprised when I got it delivered on Nov 04. The packaging was good too. Experience : Its been 5 days into use and here's what I have experienced. I live in a 2 bedroom flat about 800sqft and I have placed this in one of the corners of a bedroom. Coverage has been really good. Configuration and installation: Very easy and step by step installation procedure is attached and its very easy to configure. You can either use the CD provided or use the web link [ I chose this one as my DVD drive doesnt work] Signal coverage: Though the device is in one corner of the room, I get good signal coverage [about 3 bars out of 4,sometimes even 4] in the hall and another room with a wall in between. Also i just use a bsnl line with 512kbps speed and the speed I get on my mobile is definitely good for that . If you have a 1/2Mbps line you'll surely love it. 2 antennas really are good to boost the coverage. Connection I haven't experienced any loss of connection. Also the one touch to turn wifi on/off is really useful. Heating: Very simple tip. Any electronic device heats and needs ventilation to drive the heat off. Just mount the device on a piece of cardboard ,hollow at the bottom to drive the heat off, as the device contains openings at its bottom and if you place it on the table directly, you will only block that exit passage of heat.. You'll hardly experience any heating after trying what I said. Warranty: 3 years as promised. All in all a very good buy . Go for it. :)
5|Thanks to Snapdeal and best offer.Good performance @ this rate in market. 1- easy installation 2-WiFi/ LAN/WAN 3-Range is good using in 2000 sq ft. 4-No lag and Heating Problem.
4|The product arrived well within the time period. The router was well packed and came with the necessary instruction manual and quick installation disk.
4|Bought this product a month back for approx 1100. Double antennas don't work any better than single one so it is better not to presume so. Penetration across walls and coverage is good without much loss of signal strength. Overall a good buy for the price.
5|I m using this product from last 1 week . Very good network strength. 100 % Recommended this wi-fi .
3|some time start automatically disconnect not proper work
4|The router is very easy to setup. It will be more useful for houses upto 2000 sq. ft. After that the signal drops. The wifi can be easily secured using password. But overall a good item to meet your wireless needs for small home.
4|This is good. Dont buy this if you have a DSL supplied to you. THis is easy to setup. Mac Cloning feature makes it even more easier for setting up. Best buy for a home router. Cons -- Cannot create guest simultaneous networks. Rest all range is awesome.
4|worth for the money i spent. even though there are 2 antennae, the distance wont cross 40mts.. but it is worth for for the money! you can go with it.
4|WiFi range is not up to the mark even though it has 2 antennas, apart from it its a good product at this price range.
4|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is complited good prodcket
5|I use TP Link Router last 2 months ,i face nice conectivity ,thanks to snap deal
3|product is good but works only in full range...wen the signal strength comes to 2 bars you cannot rely on it for a better speed...
4|The product is quite good for the budget it is available in the market.
5|TP-Link wireless router built quality is v.good and gr8 job done by sanpdeal..
5|a very good product by tp-link. and snapdeal is selling it in a very low prize.. Signal strength is great at long range. It can easily match performance of more expensive routers. But delivery service of "gojavas" is very bad.
3|The purchase part was hassle free but the delivery partner was not that smooth functioning. Had to struggle a lot to get the parcel.
5|Product is good with excellent coverage no issues till date
5|This router is good, speed is good range is also goood Two antenna provide good range good looks
5|Good cover area and easy install..and not any problem yet
5|Very good product by snapdeal...using from last 2 months ...No problem face.
5|This TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is very good product.It is useful for me and may family.Its 2 entina is very Attrective.Quality of this product is very good....
5|First of all kudos to snapdeal for delivering this product before time,secondly, with 2 antennas this router range is awesome. Good product with nice quality.
5|This router is very powerful network created
4|good signal, placed it in 2nd floor...got full signal in 1st floor and 1 or 2 bars at ground floor....easy installation. happy with this.
5|Got delivered to my home in bangalore with in 4 days after placing order. It is working fine since 1 month and should see how it works in long term.
5|best router i used which a have vast range and a high speed wireless connection
5|It's a very good products it's service is good
4|My router is not working the replacement.time is over but i have warrenty for 3 Years where should i give my router ?
4|The performance is good however range is not up to my expectation. I installed this in one of my bedroom in 2BHK, signal is good within the flat however the signal completely dies just outside the main door which is hardly 20feet away from the device.
3|signal is not up to the mark...........
3|overall good but not best...sometimes wifi network down..cannot connect my smartphone whereas my pc working fine connected with lan cable out from router...
5|Wireless N Router is very good...it delivered within 3 days...really good service...this is easy to install...very good range...
3|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is a good wireless router
5|Quality at a great price, relax at home
5|Excellent router Three years warranty Service centre close to my place Easy installation, long range wifi 5dBmi antenna Delivers what it specifies perfect fit for me on price n specs Delivery was on time n in superb packaging n condition Overall thumbs up
4|Good product and worth for money, Signal strength is good.... this is perfect router for home purpose..
4|its very good for thz rate outside dealers were not giving gto thz prize when compared to d-link tp-link is best
5|Product is at its best ! i would give 5/5 for this router, this is what i needed. It gives you a good range with advanced connectivity features at an affordable price. I have installed it in my window and covers the the range 150+ meters with good signal (Range depends on the signal strength and placement) This is being a week i am using this router and 20+ devices connected to this router , Proud to say every device on this wireless network is getting equal bandwidth.
5|Product quality is too good. I am satisfied with this product also with this seller. Thanks
5|Snapdeal deal this product is very nice i had two product purchased of the same
5|tp link 300 mbps tl-wr841n is best price in router
4|Having 5dbi antennas, it provides good coverage. It has all necessary configuration options to make it usable for most ISPs.
5|A value for money router. Doesnt heat up even running at a strech for 24 hours. Range 2 floor of a building. Easy to setup
5|THIS IS A GREAT ROUTER FOR MY SMALL ONE STORIED HOUSE. I AM EASILY ABLE TO ACCESS MY TWO SMARTPHONES THROUGH MY BROADBAND CONNECTION VIA THESE ROUTER. THE AMAZING THING IS THAT IT PICKS THE SIGNAL QUICKLY AND SPREAD TO ABOUT 80% OF THE HOUSE QUICKLY.THOUGH IT IS EXPECTED THAT THIS ROUTER AT SUCH LOW PRICE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SPREAD THE SIGNAL EQUALLY IN ALL CORNERS OF THE HOUSE AT SAME TIME. BUT YOU CAN ACCESS IT . GOOD SPEED OF DOWNLOAD IN SMARTPHONE CAN BE DONE THOUGH THANKS FOR MY HIGH SPEED BROADBAND CONNECTION . THE CONS OF IT IS YOU CANNOT EXPECT ADVANCED FEATURES IN THIS BUDGET ROUTER AND SOMETIMES IT LAGS THOUGH THAT IS VERY RARE., THE SETUP FUNCTION OF THIS ROUTER IS VERY EASY AND DONOT NEED ANY SPECIALIST PERSON. EVEN A LAYMAN CAN DO IT READING THE MANUAL AND INSTALLING THE CD OR CHECKING SOME YOUTUBE VIDEOS.
5|This is good product with speedy WiFi speed,I have 3 bhk working fine for 2 Mbps speed.
4|aws,ee product..range is good...easy installation...network strength is also good...low cost..fast delivery by snapdeal in just 2 days..
4|Its wifi transmission range is not as power as Dlink router with same specs.. Rest all things are awesome.
4|through this router m getting good networ of my internet........loved it
1|it is not working properly its not connecting shows wan is not connected
5|This wifi router is excellent.......... In my house upto 4 flower range is good... with excellent speed.....
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is nice
5|just nice device.delivery is quick by snapdeal retail at only 3 days.thanks snapdeal.
3|router is f9 serves its purpose gud antenna strnth bettr than 1 antenna
5|I was not happy with Airtel Modem + router because of low wi-fi signal strength hence bought a standalone router.. hitched it up myself (non-techno guy) and in 15 mins have wi-fi signals going through perfectly. Amazing product, very good service and delivery by snapdeal. A perfect use case to online retail glory.
4|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N), I like this product vety much. it's installation process is very easy, wifi range is around100m
5|Suppppper ..... router ever high catch range best brand and high speed .
3|Firstly it did not suport Airport for Mac, after weeks of R &amp; D it worked. PS: Always keep DHCP starting from 192.168.0.20 onwards.
5|very good service on time delivery good product
5|people who have question about range. i have kept it on 3rd floor(penthouse) able to get signal in ground floor and on road.. no signal drops...
5|buy it.........no need to get extra thinking
5|The wireless N router TP Link make is very sleak and best performing device. It was the easiest installation I have done. The support and the User guide is excellent, easy to understand. The range thrown by the device is satisfactory.
5|Such a beautiful router to use as home type
5|good product , good range for wireless network , value for money
5|pretty nice product with good wifi coverage and speed delivery.....good value for money ...must buy if needed 300mbps with dual antennas ...cheap
5|.. coverage.. very easy to set up.. long way to go
5|Already 2 time buying this product it as good range for office easy installation better price range and good packing by snapdeal sd+
5|Good Router but low network If you have small House it is not just okay but it is perfect Speed is very good..
4|Good speed &amp; good connectivity. good product at this price . preferred over netgear &amp; d Link
5|Good Product, satisfied with the Range. Snap deal offered it at compative price. Was delivered on time.
4|Its an ideal router for normal home use.
5|Bought this product and using it in my two storey 5 bhk house and wifi signals are received in all rooms perfectly. No dropout and no need to reset the router,. Used it continuously for 48 hours and also access my office sites which are pretty huge but still worked like a charm. Recommend to buy. full paisa vasool. Perfect delivery by snapdeal.
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) IS OUTSTANDING
4|its a gud Product.. I have done a lot of research before purchasing this..and get it at a gud price... No big configuration.. Its a big thumbs up.. save your time and buy this.. Cheers..!!
4|This is good, no problem router
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) I ordered this product with unexpected deal, grt to use. delivery was good thank u snap deal.
5|Tp-link wireless router working very fine
5|product is delivered properly and working fine. TP link brand is excellent and 300Mbps bandwidth is working fine. thanks snap deal for best offer.
5|good performance no problem, except range.
5|An easy to use Router. Meets the needs of a home router with aplomb. And the price is the icing on the cake. I have to thank my internet supplier for suggesting this model.
5|awosome service &amp; product! Router (TL-WR841N)
5|i seen this product at local places, even at online at other sites etc but not get at this price even i got delivery with in 2 days. even i got product in good packing and in brand new condition thanks snapdeal
5|good router, good range. its the best budget router as per my opinion dual antenna which also gives a very good streaming for my 2mbps internet brousing and video streaming go for it snapdeal had the lowest deal
5|very good product on the budjet,i recomended it
5|Fully satisfaction from this product. Save money by purchasing this product. Now everyone enjoy my wireless internet just because of this router.
5|yah i bought in snap deal this router more than 7 for my friends and colleges for what that is timing delivery and packing
4|By buying this item from you, we got a piece of mind. Because earlier we were hasseling with wiring in network whereas now is wireless. We can put our systems at any table with good connectivity. Thanks TP-Link
5|good quality wifi router with wps botton
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) NICE QUALITY PRODUCT
4|The product is excellent with nice range for a flat like 3BHK and no need of installation(Using BSNL wimax). Just plug in everything as instructed and it starts working.... simple as that. Buy it without any doubt. Pros:- comes with inbuilt wifi protection and wifi ON/OFF button. Good wifi range... Cons:- Haven't found yet
5|I am pretty network specialist and have sound knowledge about couple of routers, After a good research and comparison with many brands i find the Tp link 300 as a best wifi router which meets my expectation in terms of speed and advance multi security option. Though i have seen the same product on multiple online store but the best price is only offered by snap deal. The best thing of Tp 300 is we are getting 300mbps speed router at a price of 150mbps.
5|It performed well, it has most things we'd need from a wireless router, and it's excellent value for money too.
5|worth buying if you are looking for a better router at affordable price and TP LINK wil not let you down. Very easy to set up and use. :) thanx SD!!!!
5|I have owned this router for over a month now and I am VERY happy with its performance. We now have no less than 8 wi-fi-enabled gadgets regularly sucking internet through it and giving our phones, tablets and chrome-books excellent service. It sits on the computer desk flashing away 24 hours a day and doesn't even get warm. The reception is excellent downstairs (where the router is sited) and the signal strength is indicated as high upstairs in the bedrooms but its very hard to get phones/tablets etc working at full speed upstairs. I'll probably buy a wifi repeater for upstairs and see how that goes. However, its not a major problem and, as I said, we get great sevice downstairs and even in the garden. This is probably one of my best purchases on Snapdeal. You don't need to have a large data bundle from your phone provider when you can use the wifi at home.
4|I am writing my experience based on 5 days usage, Prons: 1. Router range is good, easy and quick installation with mini cd provided, 2. Wifi on/off button is added feature in this router that is missing in almost all router i surveyed online, 3. No heating issue. 4. Packing was good with the bubbled wrap Cons: 1. Ethernet cable in the box is of just only 1 metre long. 2. No RJ-11 cable. 3. Delivery took 5 days, should be 2 days only
5|Overall: I am happy with the device and I think it is a great smartphone and people should really buy it rather than buying a high end smartphone like Samsung or some others which offer similar features for high prices. If you are on minimal budget 10k - 15k then go for this. If you are concerned about the brand and status then no one can stop you from opting for other brands.
5|Fast and efficient, easy to set up and use. Wi-Fi signal strength is also great. Great product delivery by Snapdeal, within 7 hours of placing the order. Great Snapdeal!!! Keep up the good work.
5|Value for money, great product, easy to install. Perfectly works with my broadband connection. I am happy that i made the right decision by purchasing this product. Go for it.
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is very use full product.It is very easy to use n giving good performance,I will recommend to all.Thanks.
5|This product is full paisa vasul. Very easy to configure and install. You are getting double antenna at the price of single antenna. Surely go for this product.
1|This router has no good range. Its range has been limited within one room. But speed is good. Who have want more range plz don't buy this product..... This router is no good...... i suggest don't buy anyone.......signal get weeker between one wall...so my suggestion is don't buy this......
4|I am using this router for 2 weeks now. I am very satisfied with this product. Its the best cheapest 2 5dBi antenna router. It provides satisfying coverage in my house which has 3 floors (I keep it in the 1st floor). Installation is very easy, and anyone can do it easily. It is lightweight and good. Snapdeal delivery wasnt satisfying though, it came in very bad packaging, jsut the box in a plastic wrappers. Otherwise, all good.
5|Very cheap...faster delivery.... For installation see you tube videos on TP link installation. Very helpful. Nice speed. Very happy with snapdeal. Thnx a lot.
5|Very good router. Looks cute. Small and lightweight. It is very easy to set up and even a complete novice can do it. Got it for very cheap during a sale. Connectivity is excellent. Signal strength is very good. Has not given any problem so far. The On/Off button is an added bonus. I give it an overall rating of 10/10.
5|Super awesome product,covers good signals,looks superb,but d main fault in this device is tht its adapter create some creepy noise which is d -ve point in this.... but overall its worth taking device.
5|Very very happy with this product.........great network...simply easy to connect....&amp; internet is on in your Desk Top &amp; Mobile.....No need to opt for 3G &amp; 4G services.....
5|Snapdeal Delivery is Good. Very Nice product. Double Antenna which helps in expanding the signal. 300 Mbps is sufficient enough to handle Indian broadband speed. I am using for nearly a month and it is very smooth and perfect.
5|Does what the description says. I feel it is the best budget oriented dual antenna wi-fi router in the market. Works in every corner of my 1300 sq feet house.
5|Great product.decent coverage range and uninterrupted connection.best price all over with excellent delivery time.just enjoying my first wifi router experience.
4|One of best router I have ever used. Range area is large, can use for 2 floors of office or house. Only initial setup is bit difficult and trial and error types. It would be better if you get a technician. Overall working of router is nice. It does its work.
4|First of all very much happy with snapdeal delivery...delivered within 2 days of the ordered date...coming to the router, it is really worth the price...coverage is very good...
5|Its very good product, configuration/setup is very easy. Signal coverage is good so this dual antenna product is really helpful. Pirce wise its good deal, many shops selling this product at much higher price. I am happy about this product.
5|300 mbps router for price this range is really awesome and the signal range is very good. setupis very easy. It's just plug and play no installation needed.
5|Only one word.....cheap and best. Those who want cheap and best router this would be the first choice. The only thing is that there is no usb port in it otherwise the best choice in performance and price
5|as ever good product as expect, no dbt , tp link is great ever., snapdeal service is the best, 3 rd day delivery and brand new product with good packing. if you want a best router than go for it....
5|It is really a good product at this cost. I verified outside shops they told me about 1500 rs. But got from snap deal for 850. Really awesome product for this price. The signal strength is too good in my 2bhk all rooms and in ground floor too.
4|I Purchased this router 2 months back.., no issue till now. Good signal strength across two walls. In fact the signal strength is catch able at first floor as well when I connect the router at Ground floor. The option to see how many bytes received by a particular mac-address or Physical address will help us to know who is downloading more :)
5|I bought this router after my linksys WRT54GH router stopped working. Pros : very fast when compared to my earlier 100 mbps router. Noticeable speed difference. Light weight. Cons : Range coverage not as good as my earlier router. Mounting is a bit challenging as it's 2 antennas are not detachable. Overall, great product and value for money.
5|TP LINK 300 mbps wireless N router is a complete paisa vasool router. It is very efficient and that too at a very affordable price. Setting is also very easy. I strongly recommend this product.
5|I simply cant get this product at so resonable rate with sich a big brand name......i just wanna thank snap deal for offering me with such a great deal....its really dil ki deal wali......
5|Product is good.However i am not happy with delivery system.few months back only purchased samsumg grand max 2,in both of this cases product delivery boy reached without informing me.so i have to made quick arrangements in both cases.
4|Purchased this router last week. Used it for 6 days and must say a very good peice available at this price. I was looking for a router for my broadband connection with 10 mbps speed and must say i am very much happy with the product. The packaging was good and was delivered withing 4 days of placing the order viz. before the time of delivery. when instaling must say very user friendly setup. took hardly 5 minutes to get the router get set and go. got a good spped connected to 5 devices at a time. highly compatible with android, windows and apple. covered my 2800sq. ft. place. placed it at the centre of the house. Best product at this price range for domestic use.
5|Build :looks decent Range : I was stunned by the range it offers, having placed the router in second floor room and I can connect my TV and smartphones in first floor.so range offered is extremely good. Speed and data streaming: I purchased this router for this very reason.i connected 3 phones, 1 laptop(Dlna server) and 1 TV. The speed in which data streams between the devices is simply superb. No lag whatsoever even for HD videos. so it's a big thumbs up from me. Haven't tried gaming yet. Price : worth every buck.Earlier I used bsnl modem+router which offered lower range and streaming rate was pathetic and costed the same as this. So yes,this is more than what you bargained for. Installation:just switched on and plugged the cable(act broadband). It was like plug and play :D simplest installation done so far. Coming to snapdeal &amp; it's service I ordered it in snapdeal because this was the place where I got the best price.As simple as that.the parcel arrived in good condition, nicely packed. The item was as described. So, good job snapdeal(thumbs up).
5|Instance order delivery, value for money, easy to install, as it have dual antena so have good coverage and signal strength, best for home use, connect it directly on broadband line on wan port, and connect phone, tv etc using wireless signals, if have multiple floors you may connect additional wifi to its lan port it will give you extended range, remember to change ssid and password, if have multple wifi you may use same ssid and password, so when you will roam around you will automatically connected to wifi with strongest signal, to protect from anauthorised access this wifi also support mac-address binding.
4|Really Product till now, started using it from 3 weeks. Dual antenna give total congestion free network. I have connected 4 mobiles 1 laptop and all 5 devices are working smooth.Range coverage is very good 1000 sqft flat is perfectly covered, though not tested signal strength further but it will not hamper the speed given the device quality. I think it will also give good signal strength for wider area. Setting up the router was also quite easy and hazel free. All in all I would recommend this router to any with a 3-4 BHK house or small office.
5|I am very happy with this product as it gives full wifi coverage of 2500 sqft area of my premises with my 1 mbps broadband service provider. I simultaneously connect 4 devices (Desktop+Laptop+Android phone+Tablet pc) at ease and the speed on each device is almost same. Not only that but I also get the signal(poor but okay) even when I am on roof of my home as well as when I am in garage at ground floor. Before having this one,I had used D-link and netgear product, but this TP-link router performs better, having 3 years warranty and a bit cheaper too. Installation is very easy as a utility CD provided with the package and 1 meter RJ45 patch cable also included which is not mentioned herewith in product's decription area. Thans to Snapdeal for providing this item in a very competitive price.
5|Im very happy for dis product very easy setup, i think i need to call to isp to config my router blah blah blah etc just cloned my mac adres conected to wan dats it easy.. n one thing i notice is its so hot for a quite minitues.. every thing is fine i love dis product n sad news is no support of ddwrt coz it v10 :(
5|more than a week i am using this superb device its help me a lot to use my bsnl wimax it has good range of wifi i can use wifi out of my building also and it increase speed of internet also before it i get 60-70 kb in downloading but now i get 100+ kb its amazing product and easy to use and configure in this price i checked lot of website to buy but best price is at snapdeal thank you snapdeal for giving this product
4|Gotta say, this is exactly the kind of router I was looking for. Best value for your money if you are some one like me who use to reside in a hostel . Yeah the signal strength is normal could easily cross 5 inch concrete walls but you would not get the signal if you wanna connect it from your terrace. But was very easy to set up. Got a set up DVD too for the same.
4|it has a easy installeion system to make it workfull , this router is too much essential for me. it has a wifi on/off switch which is very essential also.. But its great as router , router is not walking its running
1|Definitely not a good product, I purchased for my 2BHK falt, but its range is only limited in one particular room. I have placed it in my hall n but if u take your phone connected to wifi in the adjacent room also, they have cheated.
5|GOOD range and Better connectivity.It covers my 900 sft house easily but signal level in my living room is at one point inspite of putting the wifi at the end room. For home use of 2-3bhk,this is a very good product.
5|Good option for a cost effective router need. I am using this for my ACT connection with 30 MBPS speed Signal strength is good and have not faced any issues in first week of purchase so far. Connectivity is stable This is a value for money router. Only issue I see is that my direct Cable connecting speed is 30 MBPS however over wi-fi I am getting only 20 MBPS speed. My service provider informed me that this is a good speed for a router... and is better then the base routers from Cisco (cost 2500). This is also suppose to be better then D-Link ! Go fot it.
5|its work perfect, range 200ft.packing is so good.bt courier company did nt came to my address, and my router packing completely wet bt happy that router is still working.
4|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N).. this a very good product . the connectivity is bit larger area compared to other routers like asus , d link, etc its is giving 50 to 80 mts connectivity
2|awesome wifi coverage and good product but one thing was disappointed from snapdeal for it's delivery is very worst i don't like the delivery by the snapdeal very very very poor!! please purchase with alternative shopping sites like amazon or flipkart but not snapdeal
5|It's a DSL router not ADSL so check before you buy. If you're looking for DSL only then a recommended product. TP-Link a well known network device maker.
4|Have been using it for the past 10 days. Working as intended. Have no range issues in my 3BHK (1500 sq.ft). Recommended product at this price level. (average speed i get 5mBps)
5|i am very satisfied with the TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) , which I have ordered from Snapdeal, delivery was on the third day of purchase.
5|The product is very good and availability of TP-Link 300 mbps router at such a mouth-watering price is really amazing. Regarding packaging and delivery I must say that snapdeal is rocking.
5|- Delivery on time - perfect packing by seller. - Nice Wifi range - Easy instillation(if u networking person) in my case no need modem but router installation guide need modem..
5|The double antenna makes it a lot better for the range at home. I have heard this from friends that the life of these routers are pretty good. The delivery was on time and with fantastic connectivity and speed i can give 5/5
5|this wifi modem is awsmm...i bought this from snapdeal..it is a nyccc product..good speed..but one prbm in this product ..its range is loww...otherwise it is nycccc
4|Using it for more than 2 weeks and feel satisfied with the performance of the device. My flat is located on the second floor but I can still access wifi in ground and 3rd floor to some extend with good signal strength.
4|The WiFi Router is working perfectly fine. My earlier router was not able to cover my entire area because of which I went for this router which has powerful signal and coverage. I am very mush satisfied with it's performance.
5|first all all thanks to snapdeal for super fast delivery within 48 hours , product is very good ,good packaging,after lots of research i purchased this product.works perfect. and very easy installation. I purchased this product Rs 920 , print was 2799, at market the price was near about 1950.so its preferable to purchase in online like snapdeal. its have 5 db antenna which covers my entire room also have 3 years warranty. looks wise its off white colors is pretty good. thanks to snapdeal.
4|Its a great device with superb performance.DD-WRT is available for this Router.Just go to the DD-WRT site and search in the beta section of the download.The full tutorial is available over Internet.Once DD-WRT is Installed your Router will jump from Fast to SuperSonic with lots of tweaks and adjustment available. Have all the tools at your disposal in DD-WRT to set your Own Wifi Workgroup,Homegroup,Server with a great Signal strength(yes the Strength Increases with the increase in TX Power Using DD-WRT). Its the cheapest DD-WRT wifi Router available in the market at the moment. Just go for it
5|I have been using this router for almost 6 month and my friend for a month 24/7. Never forgot its work. High speed. Good range. Good connection quality.
5|I am really really happy to select Snapdeal site for purchase TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router because it cheaper than other online Shopping sites and delivery also before expected date with good packing.
5|I have ACT broadband with plan of 30Mbps., i am using this Router and the speed is well within limits(min speed of 28 Mbps). Even if the router runs for 2 days long without disruption it won't get hot !!!
5|On time delivery thank you very much snap deal good packing Router is Good looking &amp; compact,Super easy to set up Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router, All required instructions for easy setup are provided,Great speed and strength
5|This is my 2nd router from Snapdeal. Earlier i purchased TP-Link 150 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR740N). That one is working great. This router is much better than the 150Mbps router.
4|Though it has 2 antenna.. But signal strength is gettinggetting too poor above 4mtr between a single wall. Not differ to much than previous dlink 600L.
5|Hi! I have just started using "TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N)" for my Home-Office a few hours ago. One of my best friends has recommend me this TP-Link Product from SnapDeal. He is using this one for months without any issue, so far. I am trying to keep this review Short and Sweet. So I would not discuss here about Product Specifications and all as those are easily available on the SnapDeal Product Page and TP-Link Official Website, as well. SnapDeal Shopping Experience: My Shopping Experience was excellent with SnapDeal. But the "Order Tracking System" and "On-line Invoice Download Option" could be better. Otherwise it is great from most of the major aspects taking from ease of ordering to on or, before time delivery of orders. Product Review: I am just writing about WiFi Coverage and "Stamina" of this product. My Home-Office is on first Floor of my house. I have installed this router at my Home-Office Desk. But I am getting brilliant WiFi coverage all over my house taking from Ground Floor to Top Floor (Third Floor). According to my friend, he never switched his TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) off so far and it is working great. I, hereby, strongly recommend you to buy this one. If you still need more reasons to buy it, all I can say is, "Friend, it comes with a 3-Years Warranty at such a reasonable price. What more do you want from it for taking a positive Purchase Decision for it.?" Just Order it Today and you won't regret your decision.
5|it is a very good router in this price range. I am using this router from the past one week and it is running very smoothly so go for it without any hesitation range is also ver very good.
5|this is good product and easy to setup but little difficult on GTPL broadband user when it disconnect then we have to manual connect on every time only this is negative point on this router
5|great value for money &amp; this time i got it from courier in good time.you can connet so many divices with good internet speed. this router can handel good high speed internet speed. this router's range is good. it is best for home &amp; office. i can connect my all divices in my home 3500sq ft 2stayers.
4|The delivery was not on time as expected form snapdeal. the router is working well with my laptop and mobile device, the area covered is fairly good, till now no problem .....
2|When used in different rooms of the house, the wi-fi simply did not work. It only works in straight line and uninterrupted by any walls etc. which is never the case in home use or office with more than one room.
4|Very nice product by TP-Link. Best in this price range.I have purchased two of these and both work perfectly fine. Usually I keep it on for 18 hours a day,still no heating.(using from last three months). Overall signal strength is good.(20 meters easily)
4|The tp link router is the cheapest and most compatible router. Has many options in the wan option. It's pppoe login option is the best. Not all routers support my.ISP.
4|Signal reaches throughput my 2700 sq ft 3bhk from one corner of the house. It is fast and secure. The setup was not very intuitive though. The router works well with my windows 8 pc, windows 8 phone, my wife's iPhone and my kids ipad.
5|the product has great price with dual antennas which covers a large area of coverage. i couldnt find a better router with these specs of it at this price. 300mbps spped added cherry to the cake.
5|covers my duplex house well. That was the main criteria I had while buying this router. It served its purpose. Also, don't worry if you don't have CD drive in your laptop, you can configure it thorough internet as well!
5|Hi buy this one blindly for 1BHK, and for 2BHK TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N), They both work seamlessly. Standard delivery by snapdeal. Great value for money.
3|The signal strength drops on changing the room. Thought that dual antenna will make sure that signal is strong across the house - but that is not the case. Not sure how other similar products fare. However, easy to install and looks good.
5|antennas provide maximum omni-directional wireless coverage and reliability so you can get best performance in many wireless devices at a time. totally awesome this price range. thanks snapdeal.
2|The TP-Link router I got, has very low coverage radius of wireless access, As it has two antena I purchased but it has the coverage area of the same as that of router with one antena.
5|i used to face several problems while i try to share my internet conection through wifi hotspot through laptop to overcome this i was searching for different routers that which are cost affordable and that which gives high performance where i saw about this product, there after i have searched for different web sites that which have supply at low cost i had see this product at cheapest cost in snapdelas then i just bought it to see how it works,now i got it and its working fine and all my troubles in internet sharing has gone i'am satisfied with its performance i recommend others also to buy this product
5|I have been using TP-Link router WR841N for about 10 days and i am satisfied with its performance. Its very compact and light weight, also for my small house it provides connectivity in all corners. Most of the time during day, there is one laptop and 4 mobile phones connected, and haven't faced any issue. Installation was also very simple and got completed in 15-20 minutes approx. I have never used other routers so cant compare with them. But for me this is good and all my requirements are fulfilled. I give 5 stars, hoping all it will function similarly as through these 10 days.
5|Best Product in its Range. Works perfectly and is secure. Easy setup &amp; easy to use. Range is very good. I get range upto 3 floors. Fast as well. Great for home use &amp; also good for small office use. 4 Network ports can act as an router for other computers as well. In short... A MUST HAVE product if you are planning to buy a wi fi Router.
5|I have purchased D-Link before this and I used to suffer from random disconnection with that particular Modem. This modem is however very good and I have not faced any such problem till now with it. It is also a dual Antenna for better stable and strong connection. I can also use to configure my NAS if required as it has 4 LAN ports and is very very efficient. This product is highly recommended considering the price range. Go for it.
5|Before buying any router go for TP-link website to check whats your need in terms of range and router reach. This one is with 300 mbps means higher reach than any 150mbps technically. Consists of only wifi (no bluetooth or Wwan), requires direct internet/intranet input. No modem is there but you can use it as a router even along with wifi to connect more than 2 systems. Its wifi is also compaitaible with mobiles/laptop wifi and has option for ethernet/lan cable to connect. Single input but 4 lan+ wifi ( practically i couldnt find router having more than 1 input for home/office use and available at price less than 32 thousand). Its too good and because of its superb performance, Purchase two, each for home and office. Light weight- rugged but still top notch performance I couldnt have researched as much as i did for this router from nehru place to online and finally system admin suggested to go for this. Initialy, was a bit unsure about its quality because of its price. But by its performance, it proved that it is worth every penny.
4|it is of good quality and considering the features in the given price bracket, it seems to be a router to grab to. The compact size also makes it very convenient to place it anywhere. now to the point- Its connectivity area or range is good and speed is tremendous. I connected 4 devices at the same time and the speed was above avg
5|This was my first online purchase for any electronic item. Found to be great. The package was perfect and delivery was prompt. This Wireless Router works great. Even the signal range is good when trying to access it on the same floor or the next floor. If I try to access from below floor (wireless router in the second floor and trying to access from first floor) then I do not get any signal.
5|the product is pretty amazing and outstanding to the viewers i must say just buy it the product is too cheap ultimate range and speed nice build lightweight but thats gotta do noting :v easy to install adaptive tp link rocks .. .. having pretty amazing time with the product many said wifi routers aren't that supportive to tikona connection but it surprised me there too just a sec it took to start . . delivery was totaly on the date they promised . . dont think much you aint gonna get this type of product at these rates . . hope it helped
5|The signal strength is very strong. I can play youtube smoothly , i can connect many devices simaltaneously with no problem. Using this item since 3 months . No problem till now. I have 3 floors in my home , this router just covers the full home effortlessly. Even sometimes i can connect to this router from road in front my home. awsssooomee (y).
5|Believe it or not, today, for the first time, when I used the router to check its wireless network capacity, I became all the way speechless. It is really a worth for money. Its double 5dbi antennas provide huge wi-fi coverage without reducing the speed of broadband data transmission as well as ensures stable standby connection all the time. At last, all I want to say is if one's essential requirement is to buy a 300Mbps Wireless N Router without Modem in an attractive price, then, in my opinion, don't think twice...just grab it.
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. There are a no. of 300N Wifi routers but compared to the price and reliability it is a winner. I've been using it for the past 3 months and the following are my findings about the router: Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - All required instructions for easy setup are provided. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support (Just Google 'DD WRT' for details). However, I was unable to use the feature as DD WRT firmware for V9 is not available.
5|+ I wanted a good router that would help me use my laptops, tablet and phones at home for browsing. Everyone suggested more famous brands like Belkin and Netgear. But price was also a constraint for me. Heard and read a lot of positive reviews for this and so decided to go for it. + 06 June 2012 - Bought this router and updating this review on 25 Mar 2013. Has been almost a year and it has been wonderful. Setting up the router was fairly easy given that I am not a very tech-savvy person. Just had to follow the instructions in the manual provided with the router. + Range is awesome. I live on the 2nd floor - but I can still browse on my phone when I am walking on the street below in front of my house. Can easily play WiFi games like Carrom 3D on 2 Android devices sitting in 2 different corners of the house. + 14 Sep 2013 - MOrning, the router just stopped working. I tried troubleshooting with the manual provided, but the "System" light did not come on. Has 3 years of warranty and therefore decided to get in touch with TP-Link. Tried calling them on the toll free number, but there was no answer. Maybe because it was a Saturday. So sent out an email to support.in@tp-link.com. Fingers crossed. + 1 Hour Later - There was a reply from a customer care exceutive. I was asked to send across the malfunctioned router to their Mumbai office (I live in Bangalore). They provided the address and promised that this would be resolved soon. + 16 Oct 2013 - I was held up in work and therefore could not send the router to them. So, after a month since the last email, I sent couriered the router to TP-Link's Mumbai office. Once I did, I also sent them an email asking them to acknowledge receipt of the same. Fingers crossed again. + 22 Oct 2013 - No updates from TP-Link yet. I dropped in one more email to them asking if they have received the router I sent and what the status was. + 23 Oct 2013 - A customer care executive replied to my email saying that my device has been received, tested, and will be dispatched back to me shortly. + 30 Oct 2013 - I received a courier from TP-Link's Mumbai office. Inside was a brand new router. Also included was a receipt that said that this was a replacement piece and had other details like the date on which my malfunctioning router was received and tested, the date on which this replacement piece was dispatched etc. Setting up the router again was very easy and I am back online now. Overall comments: From the past 1.5 years I have been using this WiFi router and I have recommended this router to a lot of my friends. I was really upset when the router suddenly stopped working and when there was no response on their toll free number. But a product breaking down cannot be avoided. What matters is the way in which the company handles after-sales service. And I am really happy with the way my case was handled. I got a replacement within 15 days and that says something about the company. Therefore, in short, this is a great product and also a dependable company. Go for it.
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. There are a no. of 300N Wifi routers but compared to the price and reliability it is a absolute winner. I've been using it without a single issue and the following are my findings about the router: Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - All required instructions for easy setup are provided. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support. - Physical Power AND Wi-Fi switch present. Which means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical LAN connection. - 4 LAN ports present. - It can also be used as range extender. - Has 2 non-detachable antennas for boosting Wi-Fi. I've installed the router in 1st floor and get 1-2 bars in ground &amp; 2nd floor and just outside on the road. Also my tab shows 1 bar while on the roof top of my 3 storey building. So, its coverage is good to average. Data/Internet speed has little effect on the available no. of bars. - It can share loads of data via Wi-Fi &amp; LAN network. I had successfully converted my tab into Wi-Fi virtual keyboard, mouse &amp; gamepad/joystick. - Wall mounting can also be done. Cons:- -Well as such no serious problems have been faced till date. My only concern is its white colour which looks great but is likely to get dirty sooner or later. Overall it is the cheapest router available in the market at present with loads of feature on offer. It is highly recommended for those who want cheap router with reliability, security &amp; loads of features.
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support (Just Google 'DD WRT' for details). However, I was unable to use the feature as DD WRT firmware for V9 is not available. Also it voids warranty. - Physical Power AND Wi-Fi switch present. Which means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical LAN connection. - 4 LAN ports present. - It can also be used as range extender. - Has 2 non-detachable antennas for boosting Wi-Fi. I've installed the router in 1st floor and get 1-2 bars in ground &amp; 2nd floor and just outside on the road. Also my tab shows 1 bar while on the roof top of my 3 storey building. So, its coverage is good to average. Data/Internet speed has little effect on the available no. of bars. - It can share loads of data via Wi-Fi &amp; LAN network. I had successfully converted my tab into Wi-Fi virtual keyboard, mouse &amp; gamepad/joystick. - Wall mounting can also be done. Cons:- -Well as such no serious problems have been faced till date. My only concern is its white colour which looks great but is likely to get dirty sooner or later. - Unnecessary heating problem can be avoided by installing it in an open space. Overall it is the cheapest router available in the market at present with loads of feature on offer. It is highly recommended for those who want cheap router with reliability, security &amp; loads of features
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. There are a no. of 300N Wifi routers but compared to the price and reliability it is a winner. I've been using it for the past 1 month and the following are my findings about the router: Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - All required instructions for easy setup are provided. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support (Just Google 'DD WRT' for details). However, I was unable to use the feature as DD WRT firmware for V9 is not available. Also it voids warranty. - Physical Power AND Wi-Fi switch present. Which means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical LAN connection. - 4 LAN ports present. - It can also be used as range extender. - Has 2 non-detachable antennas for boosting Wi-Fi. I've installed the router in 1st floor and get 1-2 bars in ground &amp; 2nd floor and just outside on the road. Also my tab shows 1 bar while on the roof top of my 3 storey building. So, its coverage is good to average. Data/Internet speed has little effect on the available no. of bars. - It can share loads of data via Wi-Fi &amp; LAN network. I had successfully converted my tab into Wi-Fi virtual keyboard, mouse &amp; gamepad/joystick. - Wall mounting can also be done. Cons:- -Well as such no serious problems have been faced till date. My only concern is its white colour which looks great but is likely to get dirty sooner or later. Overall it is the cheapest router available in the market at present with loads of feature on offer. It is highly recommended for those who want cheap router with reliability, security &amp; loads of features
5|The router TL-WR841N from TP-Link is just an awesome piece of technology at cheapest rate one can imagine. There are a no. of 300N Wifi routers but compared to the price and reliability it is a winner. I've been using it for the past 3 months and the following are my findings about the router: Pros:- - Good looking &amp; compact router. - Super easy to set up. - Web based utility does a good job in controlling the router. - All required instructions for easy setup are provided. - The Stock firmware has a lot to offer. - DD WRT firmware support (Just Google 'DD WRT' for details). However, I was unable to use the feature as DD WRT firmware for V9 is not available. Also it voids warranty. - Physical Power AND Wi-Fi switch present. Which means you can switch off your WIFI alone while letting the router run and manage physical LAN connection. - 4 LAN ports present. - It can also be used as range extender. - Has 2 non-detachable antennas for boosting Wi-Fi. I've installed the router in 1st floor and get 1-2 bars in ground &amp; 2nd floor and just outside on the road. Also my tab shows 1 bar while on the roof top of my 3 storey building. So, its coverage is good to average. Data/Internet speed has little effect on the available no. of bars. - It can share loads of data via Wi-Fi &amp; LAN network. I had successfully converted my tab into Wi-Fi virtual keyboard, mouse &amp; gamepad/joystick. - Wall mounting can also be done. - 3 Years Replacement Warrenty. Cons:- -Well as such no serious problems have been faced till date. My only concern is its white colour which looks great but is likely to get dirty sooner or later. - Unnecessary heating problem can be avoided by installing it in an open space. Overall it is the cheapest router available in the market at present with loads of feature on offer. It is highly recommended for those who want cheap router with reliability, security &amp; loads of features. UPDATE (1/11/15) :- The router has been working flawlessly for a year and a half now. However, I had to go for replacement twice due to no fault of mine but Act of GOD. The service of TP-Link is great. They replaced my router after testing then and there with no question asked. Though I had to carry it to there service center. Also, I can see the price has come down to half (by 600-700). Hope this update will help in further decision making.
5|Nice router with high speed in minimum cost in the market
5|Excellent product. I could connect wifi 70 feet away with 89 % of signal strength. It does not get heated even if it runs for 24 hrs.
4|Nice router using from last 5 years
5|I recommend this product to who want double tower router under 1000 . SNAPDEAL ROCKS.
4|I am using this router mainly for PS3 online gaming and usual surffing via mobile. I am using a 4mbps ethernet connection and i have not experienced any lag while online gaming so far using this router. However, i had lag issues with my earlier Belkin router even with an 8 mbps connection. So this device is a true VFM for me. WiFi range is on a little low side but that doesnt bother me much as I have cabeled the device to PS3. However, i was hoping 2 antennas would technically be more efficient than my earlier single antenna belkin router. i was so very wrong. Concluding, good stuff at this price.
5|Very good product in reasonable price. Range is excellent for 2 to 3 bhk house. Configuration is also very easy.
5|If u have a modem or readily digitalised Cable Broadband. Then this device is the best as Wireless Router even for office use. So go grab your Deal.
4|Cheap price 300mbps router. Not the best range; but good.
5|I like it. I have never seen 2 antena modem first time i have seen this type of modem. It is of Good Company. Now I will buy 3 antena modem of TP LINK
5|product 100 percent orignal product i am using in 2 years perfrct 300 Mbps and range is goid
5|very good, perfect................................
5|very easy to install....giving perfect speed...........very convenient to use......... Best router till now at such a low price ...happy to have it
5|I live in two story house(2200sqf) and wanted a really good range router, after doing extensive research, I came across this tp link beauty!! Router is placed on the first floor, still works perfect with no lags inside and outside of my house, connects within seconds, no drops so far..four mobiles and 2 laptos are always connected and wifi works smooth as butter! I am really happy with this model..go for it! And yes..you will not find any cheaper than this price Anywhere.. So thanks snapdeal for bringing millions of smiles :)..
4|Firstly thanks for snapdeal for fast delivery. And router is running proper using 4 device.
5|Good product with all the expected features in good price
5|Perfect as I expected
5|Super router good coverage and very speed
5|It is just perfect for me.It is very good in service coz it has 2 antenna.. It is also covers all the area in my house where I want network.
4|Excellent, Fantastic, Perfect covering my 2 bhk flat when i keep it somewhere center to all rooms giving me speed all over the flat for more then 2 mbps. I have taken idea Internet broadband plan of 2 mbps and this router has done a great job for me..And i am sure that it will cover 3 bhk flat more easily..although you can keep it anywhere in the flat but i suggest that, it will be more effective if you keep it somewhere center in the flat, say equidistant to all rooms to get it's maximum access.. Adding more to that snapdeal delivery was pretty fast.... I had purchased this product based on reviews and even my idea internet service provider had also recommended it..So enjoy
5|Same as thing as shown in the website no defect in the product
5|Using for 15 days no problem till yet
5|Range of the route is quite good.it's over 30 meters if LOS (line of sight) is there.speed is really good.
5|good one product satisfied with it, working good so far....
5|Super router with better range at super price with super delivery. Thanks snapdeal
4|Very good delivery facility.Router is great.It has 2 antennas so can align in 2 directions
5|Best Wifi Router at best price..Good Speed and simple installation...!
5|Nice product so far so good
5|the WiFi range is very powerful and my 2 bhk fully covered
5|I am using this for 3 BHK flat and it is awesome with excellent signal quality.
4|The TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router is a simple and compatible instrument for installation and configuration. The wireless output in fullstrength is very short distance say 15 feet direct, if the phone is in another room fluctuation in signal is there. In short my opinion is very good. Let me know the reason for cash delivery facility is not given at the PIN Code No.682037 the area includes Cochin Special Economic Zone an industrial area, near to Doordarshan, Kochi, Ernakulam Civil Station (682030), near to Rajagiri College, Infopark Cochin, Smart City Cochin. Moreover, it took morethan three weeks to deliver at Cochin-682037. Other courier service providers are delevering the goods of Snapdeal within 3 days.
5|Nice work..very good product.... .
5|the range of this TP-Link router is best it gives me the range from ground floor to the 3rd Floor. best product at this price.
4|Overall good router, nice range and speed.
5|If u want to utilize it properly , then make it placed at ground floor.From first floor , it will not make any sense.
5|Purchased TP-Link wireless N router . Ordering, delivery cash transactions found very simple and systematic.
5|1st I would say thanks to snapdeal for selling this awsome product at such a low price range. Who ever wants to use a good wifi router for his/her whole house, should buy this product.. 1st thing is its installation procedure is too simple.. Just some clicks and this router configured to your system. 2nd its providing wpa2 psk security which is good. 3rd it has one click wps security system. 4th its awsome wifi range.. I am getting 2bar of stable wifi singal from apprrox 110 meter distance. This router fullfill all of my requirements.. I live in 2100 sqr ft house where i am getting signal all over my house. So recommend every one who wants to buy a good dual band router in a affordable price. This router can handle 300 mbps connection easily..
4|Good 1, coverage is good 100 - 150 metres
5|Nice network always gives full Wi-Fi connection
5|Good router. Awesome delivery by Snapdeal. Ideal for 3 BHK Flat.
5|It has a good coverage area and good speed.
5|I am very happy with this router. Signal strength is also very good. Very good speed.
5|Its very good. It has large coverage. Strong signal power. Best in this price.
4|easy setup, full secure, its a gud product gud range and gud connectivity, its cover my home but i am in nxt room signal is 1 or 2 points is seen...
5|Just don't believe the negative feedbacks and go for it.
5|best budget router :) Very good range and stable speeds. Highly recommended
5|This router does what it says. There are no problems faced, bought this almost 4 months back and till now i haven't faced any problems. Hassle free installation, quick set-up, it covers my 1500sq.ft apartment with a good range and good speeds, it covers all the corners of every room even after placing it at a corner of another room and not in the centre of my apartment, i stream HD videos from my Laptop/PC to my music system and Tv with UPnP/DLNA server this hasn't disappointed me till date! this has good range even what netgear and other costly routers cant provide! just go for it blindly if you are looking for a reasonable yet powerful router!
5|I was trying to get the best of the available Routers for my personal home use. The Tikona Internet guy suggested to buy any Wireless N Router (Though he suggested the D-Link), I had a D-Link ADSL Modem come router at home already for the BSNL connection, since it did not support for the RJ45 I had to lookout for a new one. On many platforms the best router with the dd-wrt and open-wrt supported routers came up with the TP-LINK - TL-WR841N Router. Then by search i found out that snapdeal had the best of the deals and booked it on a saturday. Snapdeal service here needs some recommendation as it did not fail me and as expected the product receieved was properly packed in cushion bubble plastic and was speed enough. No hiccups and no worries. By Tuesday Noon I had the device, and within no time (approx. 5 Minutes) I setup the basic configuration and wihtin next 10 minutes i could configure the advanced configurations like mac control, IP Bandwidth and Quickly I could connect to the network and the Device placed in my duplex home covers most of the zones with very good reception and wireless signal strength in all the 3 floors and terrace. I recommend this product for all those who want to buy the best Router for Personal Home use. Even for a novice this router has various helpful and easily configurable menus and is very easy to set it up. With little or no help any one can master this device and start working with this. Almost like a Plug 'n play device. Note: Though I have not really started exploring the WRT platform as yet... I know (have checked personally and have bookmarked) there is ample support and helpful hints to go ahead with the Advanced configurations. This supports DD-WRT!!!
4|About the product: I have been using it for a week and no trouble till now. Works great in my spacious 1BHK. Very easy to set up. I'm not very tech-friendly so all I can say is that the signal strength and reach is strong, Handles 2 smartphones and a laptop very well. About the delivery: Super fast! I ordered it in the evening around 8.30 and the product was delivered next day by noon!
4|Useing the product feom nearly 25 days and ut seems that its getting better day by day. Really liked the speed of delivery and the sprit of satisfying consumer by brilliant products. Good hoing snapdeal. This product boosted me so much confidence in your service that already after this sucessfull product I have puchase 8 more different products from your app.
5|TP Link....Wow!! the name is enough...because its quality and service are totally unbeatable comparing to all other router devices...Moreover this product is having a two antena for a better range of wi fi..And its speed is 300 mbps which is also double comparing to all other devices....At this price a bunch of surprise!!! Just get it all wi fi lovers
5|I brought this WiFi router for my home use. It works perfect. Signal range is more than 100 meters with walls in between. I am unable to test it on open space but it works perfectly for congested areas in City. Lacks functionality, more functions would be better but I can not complaint about it in given price range. Can play multi player games on mobile easily.
4|The product is good . thanks to snap deal for the deliver the product on time. the router is compact and ruged . the range of router is average because it become half after attaching LAN cable without attaching any cable the range is unbelievable. Why its happen is a question to me. Good product except this one fault.
5|Superb one, it is so easy to setup and ready to use. Also felt really secured with the new features as this is my second router. Previously i used i-ball, it is still functional bt as i buy a new 2 bhk house i wanted something with high range. The best deal i hv recieved coz the same router cost rs 1600 in market. Ty Snapdeal, love it this diwali.
4|GOOD range and Better connectivity.It covers my 700 sft house easily but signal level in my living room is at one point inspite of putting the wifi at the end room. For home use of 2-3bhk,this is a very good product.
4|Full coverage at same floor but poor signal at other floor
5|this router even gives me range 5 floors below till 100mtrs and is very good... dnt go by the negative reviews, this is as good as dlink!
4|Original router... Best connectivity nd range in less price.. M satusfied
4|nice router , but signel starnth very low , nice speed
5|This is best router in this price range.. go for it
4|there is no other best router then this one at this price.
5|best wifi router at affordable price and thnks to snapdeal for fast delevry....
4|I recommend this router as it has a good range and no drops in connectivity. Easy setup with an integrated CD. Obviously, this is a good one!
5|One of the best router you could get at this price and good range.
5|so so good router.............,its reang verry good.tp link is best brand.....................................................
5|It is very good in Connet to server and browser fast
5|Best router in low price,working properly
5|Nicely packed and sent and received in good condition and working good. I am happy with the product
5|It has been almost three weeks since I have been using this router and I had no issues. 1) Setup: it took less than 5 mins to set it up 2) Range and signal strength: the router has decent range and signal strength. I have at least 6 devices connected to this router and I have connectivity in most parts of my 2 floor apartment. To summarise, it is a decent router for home usage (borwsing, movie downloads and light weight gaming).
5|Excellent. Good product and value for Money.
5|I should say that 5 start to this product and snapdeal support...
5|it is nice range and network.it is cover very supper range and no problem to connecting with the router.it is best
5|Best router For 3 bhk nice nice nice nice nice nice nice awesome tplink
4|good signal length...... easy to install by using cd........ easy to assemble........... easy to change the password........
5|Product is good. Haven't explored much. Has lot of features. Monitoring and controlling
5|Excellent product at very less price. Snapdeal also did great job to deliver the product within 2 days.
5|Delivered specified time....Original brand...but light weight
4|according to price it is good product and speed is also good but not best
4|Satisfied with the range and speed of the router cover my whole house
5|Working fine nice product happy with snapdeal but courier service velex is worst
5|Superb working rate is reasonable
3|Rhe range is good is ur in diameter of 5to 7 meters but its not good if u go 15 meters away from router
5|This is amazing product and value for money. Amazing !!! :)
5|worth for money easy installation using CD perfect packing by noth snapdeal and by ECOM service worth to buy
5|As product is branded, nothing to say about the product. The seller delivered to me in 2 days. Fast service.
5|One of the best router with nice features and nice coverage. Product worth money and buy.
5|snapdeal deliverd me this product in 5 days..no issues after i was placed it in a right place
5|I have been using since last 1 week, Its working perfectly fine
4|WiFi Range is good. Light weight, Good Looking. User Friendly.Very easy to set-up. Overall good router at low price.
5|WIRLESS ROUTER IS PERFECTLY MATCHING MY REQUIREMENT AND I RECIVED GOOD QUALITY PRODUCT ON TIME WITH REASONABLE RATE
5|Very very easy setup, good security features, excellent wi-fi range across rooms- checked in 1500 sq feet, overall very good experience!! :)
5|its been 4 months of use since i purchased it there are no issues. also the currents goes in my house very frequently. when the current comes it switches on fastly with all saved data no need to sign in again even if i remove and plug in the internet cable.also we can control the signal via any device even mobile connected to it.Overall i am happy with the product.
5|It is the best router covering my 1400 sqft room.nyc to hv this product at a such price of 900 only..
5|This is one of the best router and very easy to set up, Very Reasonable price
5|Reasonable price, Great product, Quick delivery. This is the great product at this price range.
5|In this range this is the best rougher. Nice range, capable to handle high speed connection.
5|Good speed I lvd it M satisfied with it at dis price... Good product from tp link
4|awesome router give a good range . my home is on 2 floor and i can use it from my tarrace which is on 6th floor
5|wifi router absoutely fab.... good strength and signal is also awesome ... TP LINK OFF THE HOOK
5|Works perfectly fine, easy to install and 3 Years warranty. Worth the buy!
5|Good product. I have connected 3 mobile and 1 desktop on tikona it is working well
4|wonderful router and works very well with Tikona Internet. Very simple configuration and can be done by self at ease. I could configure it by running the supportive CD and following step wise instruction. Coverage is good. I compared it with my old router and realised that could make internet call with no lag or breaks at even from a distance.
5|Excellent device.. Easy to set up.. Quick to use Giving good speed because of N technology.. Not a single error come.. As other outer's have it.
5|VERY GOOD CONNECTIVITY EASY TO CONFIGURE STRONG SECURITY SUPERB WIFI RANGE IN ALL MUST BUY 10 ON 10
4|Very good item in this price. And delivery is very fast and good. I think this is a perfect router in this price.
4|Quick delivery in 3 days....device is nice....work greatly....
4|good product and working fine,price is low here at snapdeal, the product body is not strong ,signal strength is good for one bhk, not getting wifi strong signals in other rooms, but happy
5|excellent product ..affordable rate ..great offer.. Special thanks to snapdeal
5|The speed is awesome. Connects very well in all my rooms. Also connects as far as three floors down. Very happy with the purchase.
5|Good and best price I bring the tp-link in snapdeal
5|Product is excellent, so far i face no issues and security is good
5|This is my first wireless router and my experience with this router was too good.
4|total worth of money.had an amazing experience.good quality product.quick delivery.
5|Good Build quality Excellent range High value for money
5|Awesome Router Best Price. Its worth for money guys
4|I checked this product, Signal covered my whole 2 bhk room. Even Next floor.
5|Working perfectly and range of wifi is gud covering my whole 2 story home.And Thanku to Snapdeal delivered within time limit.
5|I am order this product 25-12-2015. I Received this product 27-12-2015. Snapdeal is fast delivery. But any orders also can fast deliver....... i will give 5 Star ratings
5|verry good roter...and speed is very fast..
5|Hv gone thru many routers.. Bt got d best one in best price.. Simply best deal at Snapdeal.. It covers enough area.. Installation ws also very easy..
5|Very very nice product. Accessed my Reliance Network in seconds. Remains signed in for hours.
5|it's working smoothly. thanks snapdeal. and thanks for giving this product in my budget.
4|Purchased this after reading the positive reviews. Actually a nice product with all the required features available. Very useful for home and small office. Easy to setup and provides good connectivity. I have installed it in my living room and only problem I face is the network connectivity issue when I am in my bedroom. This happens despite two powerful antennas attached. Overall, a product worth its money.
2|Described speed is 300Mbps, but actual max speed found to be 150Mbps...:(
5|Good quality product at reasonable price
3|I was looking for modem + router by mistake I ordered this
5|snapdeal quick delivered products,Good range, chipset price
4|Installation is simple and easy to fix, still verifying the router functionality. :)
5|Awsum Route,jst luvin it:-).. Easy to Setup,jst follow the cd instructions &amp; the installation will be bang on.. Great coverage area,easily able to access net on d 1st as well as 2nd floor of my home as well as gud range in all d four rooms on the floor. Also comes wid all d neccessary security features that are required for home as well as office use.. Comes with the QSS(Quick Security Setup) &amp; a Router Reset button as a useful utility This router is highly recommended as it is a total VFM product with great features :-)
4|i am happy with the router, best at this price. satisfied.......
5|perfect for 2BHk. Perfect rang.Easy to install.
5|Easy to configure Speed subject to your ISP.. I use IDEA connection and the speed is ok Would try with another ISP and update the review
5|bought it for Rs 899 that was cheapest at that time and also got coupons worth rs 500..I would say i got it bit cheaper than offline markets.. The packing was superb..and the shipping was bit quicker too..genuine product..and it works quit well.. nice signal reception in all part of my 3 storey building..i would say the design is quite good for efficient working..it works quite well as d-link and the best part is you ar getting 3 year warranty on this product..#COMPLETE WORTH MY MONEY..
5|Good One for 120 yards (2BHK)....................................
5|Tp link router working awesome. Good product to buy at small price. Thank u snapdeal for less price to a good product
5|Good range and Nice connectivity .....................
5|It's really working good . No problem of heating even continues on. Good coverage with good speee. And very economical price.
5|Device is Perfect. its price is almost double in Local Market. Thanx Snapdeal.
5|i have never seen the router losses configaration. good product in market and its price is good
5|It is the best router i have ever bought, it is worth buying for the price, I'm very happy for the epic performance it has.
5|Great site great deals .. awesome router . Range is good upto 2 floors...would reffer sure . Thanxxx agaim snapdeal
4|Signal range is good. Suitable for my requirements
5|The Snapdeal app is amazing because we can find everything here on a great deal, i recommend it for every body.
2|best i like it beacuse tplink router is best .range is best speed is best and i think all are best in this router .no compare, is the best router .
4|For quite a long time I was busy looking for a router but never understood the right one..I was literally fed up and had given up the idea to have one but this electronic festival on snapdeal made wonders for me. One look at this TP link product , some of the reviews and its cost made me follow my gut instinct to purchase it and boom.... The product arrived in a couple of days, neatly packaged, easy guidance for setup and now all over my house we are able to access our net hassle free and the range is powerful. I made the right choice and happy with the product. Thank u snapdeal.
5|Good pro. &amp; excellent working ,range is good ,createss a good network , watch online videos without pause
4|Decent range...!!! but not so power full. as this price range, its a nice one
4|TP Link 300 Mbps wireless router is working good. I got it from snapdeal in Offer. I am satisfied with this product . Thanks to snapdeal.
4|It's working good but even when im in my home the router signal is getting down
4|I suggest to buy this products, best price and nice working, no problems, nice configuration good and easy installation ROUTER
5|After installation its working perfectly and I have a great WiFi experience.The signal strength is very good even at a distance.Good product.
5|Good speed Good Range and UserFriendly Router I am very satisfied use this Router That is very easy installations function
5|This router give better speed to laptop and my smart phone it is easily operate
5|Best WiFi Router Under 1000 Rs.Congrifiguation is Very Easy Under 1 Minutes Your WiFi Router Will Configured With Your Modem
5|this is the best you can get it, and it is really doing well till now
4|Signal strength is too good. Buy it you worth it
4|It's good quality router in good price , thanks to snap deal to provide in best price
4|Its a good router at this price. It is easy to use. The range is very nice.
4|Nysc 1 from snapdeal ........cool product n instalation iz soo simple.....
5|its rally nice wireless n router n chep also
5|I used this Router.... till now there is no problem occurred.. I am happy with this TP-Link Router..
1|the signal keeps on fluctuating thus affecting work on internet.
5|Good packing and new product and was dilivered after 2 days only and the product was not damaged and the product price was reasonable
5|Good coverage and the product is to good.
5|Has a good coverage, as well as provides speed efficiently..
4|The 740 n model does not have downloading and streamig feature .this does. But it matter only when you have a hii speed broadband
5|very very good product gets very very low rate. dil ki deal is snap deal
5|I BOUGHT W841N VIA SNAPDEAL GOT DELIVERY BEFORE TIME N PERFECTLY NO DAMMAGE WORKING VERY FINE range is very wide I RATE 5STAR 4 SALES N SERVICE
5|best router for use wide range ....good speed
5|I keep my tp link router in my hall It covers all my rooms Great product Jus loved it
4|ROUTER HAVING GOOD RANGE OF INTERNET I CAN USE INTERNET IN GROUD TO SECOND FLOOR
3|Good range Shows all the things Very nice Must buy product Better than dlink Worth of money It's range is amazing and gives 300mbps speed as promissed
5|A decent Wifi router with good coverage range. Have covered 2 floors (ground and first) in our home with decent signal strength. Light weight and easy installation.
4|you can't expect anything better at this cost. working is fine even for a 2000 sqft house and ye ofcourse you may find some issues with speed w.r.t to distance but that's not even a complain after seeing the price
5|Yeah! the TP link 300Mbps wireless N router is really great and it works flawlessly with my mobile and laptop,even I recommended this to my friends.Thank You snapdeal
5|Easy to install @ home. User friendly. Connectivity is also good. Security (wspa) enabled. I think it is better than other companies router. Thank you TP-Link
5|A GOOD PRODUCT BUT ITS TOO EARLY TO COMMENT BUT SO FAR I HAVE NOT FACE ANY PROBLEM....THOSE WHO ARE LOOKIN FOR HOME USE JUST GO FOR IT....ITS SMALL AND LIGHT WEIGHT...COVERRAGE IS GOOD....OVERALL ITS A GOOD PRODUCT FROM TP LINK.....
5|Nice product by snapdeal and good price to buy this product. This router used for any small home . This router having good faster speed. This is good router for wifi use.
5|it is good in performance with high speed signal and more security feature. it is best deal with budget 300 mbps router. for home n office uses it is good choice.
5|It is a very cheap and quality product, you can easily setup and start using the same without any hassle....best for your home and small office with extended coverage and speed of 300 Mbps...enjoy WiFi internet at very economical price...
5|Though the delivery was little late but the product is awesome. A Genuine product. Working really nice. I live in 2BHK apartment where it shows awesome signals. As excepted . Full bars in the room where i kept this router and 3 bars in other two rooms. Really awesome product from snapdeal. Best in the range of 1k. People who are looking for a router under 1k , i'm telling you ,JUST GO FOR IT.
5|Awesome.easy to setup.working perfect with my alliance broadband cat5 rj45 cable connection.good coverage between my 4 rooms with 3 obstracles(wall)on same floor and,also good coverage at my ground floor and top floor.
5|I would like to recommend this product from snap deal based on following plus points., 1. Chepeast compared to all other online website. 2. product delivered in good condition. 3. Product Delivered well before the expected delivery time. As it was my 1st experience of shopping from snap deal, I was pretty much pleased with the service and low prices. I would love to keep shopping from this website in future
4|Very good router..works perfectly fine in a 2 BHK flat...would recommend it to anyone who uses wifi just for surfing and lighter downloads...value for money device...Good service by Snapdeal...keep it up..
5|the product (router) is good and also be the perfect and as my exception the router is good .it is easy to operate and easy to install. last the result is that TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) is tooo good
5|We are really happy to deal with SnapDeal, we received our booked material within 4th day. Moreover the Wireless Router is performing excellent upto the mark. Thanks &amp; Regards; Dhiraj Srivastav Caprixa Control
5|The CD makes the installation process quite easy.It has a very good range(30m with walls).It is after quite some ramification that I found a router in this price range and these specifications.It doesnt get any better.
5|In its price range, I think it's the best router you can get. WiFi range and speed in all three zones are great, comparable to some high end devices. It's worth the price. I could not find any Speed /signal drop while using it, but then I've used it only for a week.
4|I have been using this router for a week and find it very good. So far there have been no issues and I am getting strong Wi-Fi signal strength on my mobile also which is very satisfying.
5|this was my first router. so i was new to these type of devices. it was really easy to setup. if you are here to buy a cheap but great its the right device for you. you can also see its installation tutorial video on youtube.
5|Awesome Go for it! No problem so far and Prompt service. My adapter was burned off by a lightning strike near by( I see around 30-40 per month) and my surge protector was not connected so I asked Tp link and They sent me a new adapter. And I just sent one mail and I wasn't even expecting it!
5|Product is good. But I faced difficulty in configuration. There is no online support. There web site doesn't work. I was able to eventually use their disk using the old pc... And the route is working...has good range and speed too
5|I Recomed All My Friends n Snapdeal viewer / buyer most Trusteble side In INDIA and Best in My Expirience as a Product / Price / Sevice / Helpline Center and even return Policy. Tp-Link 300 (TL-WR841N0 is also Good In All Way. Thanks
5|I just bought this router a week ago..its working really well.. The product is more than worth the money..This product is really amazing..It doesn't reduce the speed, maintain stability and the range frequency is soo good, easy to setup, fast ,lightweight. I think this is best router in this price range .
5|This is great router. Price is very reasonable. wireless range is also very good. Absolutely plug-and-play. no setup required. just follow the instruction manual in 3-4 step you are connected. Life is easy. go for it. thanks snapdeal for such a fantastic packaging and quick delivery.
5|today internet has become basic need of the people,be it a business,student or office...with this router one can turn their home into wifi zone and connect as many as device according to their wish...not only that,it is secured and performs excellent
5|This seems to be very nice product,fulfilling my aspirations,this is working properly.Besides this, it gives you a warranty for 3 years.This is also a good thing.
5|Writing this review after almost 15 days of my use.A perfect router for any home. Got at the cheapeat price on snapdeal. Router is very simple &amp; easy to setup. Got it congifured in less then 5 mins. The range is also very good. Highly recommended. Mostly works on an ISP provider.
5|good speed good coverage n good packing good sevices by snapdeal
4|IT WILL INCREASE THE SPEED OF UR INTERNET CONNECTION AND RANGE IS SATISFIED
4|GOOD range and Better connectivity. It covers my 500 sqft house easily but signal level in my living room is at one point inspite of putting the wifi at the end room. For home use of 2-3bhk,this is a very good product.
5|I order TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) and received within three days as promised by snapdeal. This is my first order through Snapdeal. Firstly I want to tell every one of them those who are interested for Router than go for TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router. Purchase of this is really worth it. Excellent and easy to configure, very fast. About range it's cover more than 150 feet (without obstruction in-between) and Better than Best connectivity. As per my side I think this is best router in this price range. No problem found till now. Snapdeal satisfying me with fast delivery, it is a value for money product. Thanks to snapdeal
4|I got the router at a good price and at right time..
5|Great deal with snapdeal.. TP link-Router
5|Good speed &amp; use,..,......,.......,.....,. ......,....,...........,
5|Nice product at right price . I found it only on snapdeal the genuine price for this product and delivery was also very quick.
4|TL-WR841N is the best budget router.....
5|Purchased it for use in 2BHK flat and it works charmingly. Range is awesome in every corner of my 2BHK. Shipping was super fast, received in 2 days. Setup was too easy with quick-installation guide. Using it since 1 week without any issues so far.
5|I have recently purchased the tp link router and the performance is very good as described by the manufacturer the signal quality and the WiFi range is very good and I am really happy and I suggest to all who want purchase WiFi routers go for tplink .
5|P-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router is easy to set up..reliable..best use of large office...secure networks
5|Good product with lowest price. Serves well in my G+1 floor home. The speed is almost maintained. Worth purchase.
1|The Product is not Good suggest not to purchase this Product
4|Great Product and Value for money. I was using Belkin N150; which is of same price range. I sold it out. because of connectivity issues. TP-link offers reliable connection; fast streaming and lot more features than Belkin N150, The Interesting fact is that; u can control Individual Bandwidth for each users connected to network. Cons: Antenna seems like Dummy :D you cant use any antenna extenders since both antennas are attached without standard connector.
5|It's good, easy installation ..it is working at the specified speeds The router is quite durable ..it fell off the table 2-3 times ..its still working ..lol
5|cool product with low cost, satisfied with product
5|I found that this router loosing the signals so it wont be detectable on devices, after restarting its working again.
3|Router is working well .. but signal strength is less in the router ...
5|Best speed n network go for this......................................
4|Nice product. There is no issue up till now from 1 years. good for office that have 10 to 15 computers. ranges quality is also good
5|The product is working amazing. Great coverage. Hassle free configuration. And best thing is such a great product with very reasonable cost. hanks Amazon fro fantastic service and packaging. :)
4|First I got the damage product after replacing it the router is working prefectly.
5|This the best router under 1K which provides a very long range networking
5|Router is very good. Its best deal on this prize. Thank you snapdeal. Its real DIL KI DEAL
5|I am using this Router and it is very fat with good range WiFi. Good product.
5|Best router in its price range . Value for money
4|Totally satisfied with the router, the condition was very good and was very easy to set up and the range is so good that it flawlessly covers my home 2500 sq ft. easily. " Its my router who comes to know first that i entered home even before my parent " and connects to my phone ;) :P
4|It's good for rj45 support cable. Till then its Working good.
5|i am so happy to buy products from snapdeal its a really dil ki deal thankful for online service this the best site to buy products i am satisfied with this router is giving me bes service i am happy with this product thank you snapdeal
5|delivery n support is excellent, regarding performance of TL-WR841N is fast and superb.......also easy to configure the same. thanks snapdeal for best product delivery n support.
1|very poor i am not setisfied
5|The Router is excellent. The price is low compared to its Performance . I would recommend it to mu friends.
3|Its Wifi range was a dampener for me but overall not bad
5|Simply Awesome.........
5|TP-Link 300 Mbps Wireless N Router (TL-WR841N) by TP-Link very fast, stable. I suggest for all my friend to buy this one.
5|Good coverage and nice speed. Works well with High speed internet like FICUS
5|This one is perfect. Good Range and easy to access.
5|Good product to buy and working very very good...... Wifi range also good,installation of product also good,i connect my tv,laptop,2 iphone,1 htc phone and than also working very very good...... Recommended to buy...... Snapdeal after sales service also very good.... ???????????????
5|best router i ever used,.300 m model is best gives range awesome
4|Its working better than my previous router as i m getting almost no disconnects. Range is almost the same, I wouls say little better but could have been more as shown in the details on the website.
4|I bought this product from Snapdeal &amp; have to say they were pretty fast. Got delivery in just 2 days. With the installation CD provided it is very easy to install &amp; connect by anyone. Just need to follow instructions. Overall very good product
5|I purchase wifi router tp link 300 TL-WR841N Fast service form snapdeal and best product
5|Very good snd value for money router. Recommend for everyone
5|Good quality product and in resnable price
5|thanks to snapdeal original product at very best price and good quality.
5|No problem at all yet....Using it from last 3 months (August 2015) in my 2 BHK.... I have wall mounted it in center passage.....range is good.... friendly setup...Excellent performance.
4|Router is working fine .I am using it since 1 months . only issue I found it that it automatically stops and then restarts within a minute . Although the router is working good. And finally packaging of the product was very good . Thanks to the seller .
5|Good product from TP-link and snapdeal. Go for it...
5|Nice purchase and good product..really like it ...good packaging and faster delivery...really good one for me..worth it
5|Good router range is awesome speed is also good i would recommend this product.
4|Power adapter was not working from day 1,acept that everything was working fine. We can call this a budget 300Mbps N-router .
5|OMG! the delivery of Snap Deal is just amazing, i just love it, its so quick and fast. I thought that the delivery will take time in this festive season however, it came the 3rd day I ordered it, and the product is amazing
5|Good Product as Expected. Timely Delivery performing well. Covering 2 Rooms
4|Enhances the coverage area and also the connectivity. Can be used with any network. Can be easily connected without the need of specialist just go through the manual. Quick delivery by snapdeal.
5|This router is perfectly suited for your house wifi. I has a very good range and covers my entire 3 BHK flat. Easy to configure too.
4|Quick delivery. Best price among all online shopping sites.
5|Only one word for this product awsome. 2 floors covered with full signal and covers more then 4500 sqr ft with excellent signal.
5|Easy to set up. Range is very good with its 5db antenna.
5|perfect..............
4|Recently bought this after junking my old Wi-Fi router. Works fine. Highly recommended.
1|I m having a flat of 1bhk ard 700 sq feet n this tp link router range is not available in my bedroom. Before purchasing this router i did lot of research in finding the good one infact i also came across the same tp link router with 1 antenna but then i thought the wifi range will not be good in my other room so i opted for this heavier speed router with 2 antenna but this product is pathetic. Not happy with the deal.if theres any option of returning this product then i will b the first person to return this product. Snapdeal guys if you have option like this then pls let me know
5|I got v10 hardware and router is working perfect also the range is quite good to my previous purchase. why going for expensive routers when requirement can be fulfilled with this product. Amazing product TP Link and the delivery was also fast.
5|It's got good range, easy configuration and holds speeds quite well through the day.
5|Its perfect, easy to installed and range is also very good I got faster download with this router
1|Worst worst and worst
5|Awesome price ,great router.......... VFM
5|i like this product,any body can use ,do not worry
5|This product is really awesome. Easy to configure setup. Working perfectly. Range of wireless connectivity is awesome. It's parental control feature makes it safe for childrens. Snapdeal product delivery service is really awesome.
4|This can be used both ways.. either as a regular router connected with a modem or can use to enhance your existing wi fi strength... needs an adsl modem for this to work. Make sure of your requirement.. as you can get a model like this with adsl inbuilt too...
4|Satisfactory.. Not what I had expected but yeah it's satisfactory... Neither too good nor too bad..
5|one of the nice wi-fi router and best price in snapdeal.com
5|Thanks to snapdeal I got this item at the lowest possible rates. The router is really nice and does my job nicely.
5|Original TP - Link package, value for money, Good
5|The product was as expected, and the sell was very prompt. So 5 stars to the seller. The packing from snapdeal was superb and buying experience is super user friendly on the mobile app. 5 stars for both.
5|Very good router good speed i am in act broadband I informed to customers this
4|good network quality and compact device. reasonable price item.
5|It has a good performance and it is a too speed .it was really nice for home usage
5|recently bought this router.price was lowest on snap deal.delivery was also very quik.a good deal for me.
5|It is a master router for home use. my big home compound with 2 floor building completely became a hotspot. Thanks snapdeal for this product.
5|tottally matches the satisfavtory level....speed is also awesome guys go for it if u decide to buy the item. it is totally worth the price. delivery had also taken small amount of time.
1|Modem is not inbuilt because of this i'm not able to use it.
5|Good product at an amazing price. But keeps getting disconnected from internet.
5|it's awsome router tp link very helpfull for me
5|Using it for the past 2 months. Good range. Go for it.
5|One of the Bestwifi router I have Its speed and range is good
5|Good product. Easy to set up. However, wasn't as Fast as i expected.
5|I've been using this router in my 1000sqft flat.The speed is excellent.Though the speed comes down when you move away from it,it's not too drastic.
5|Its setupe is so simple to install &amp; its range is also so good. And this price u can't get at any shop. And u can use in Both Personal,Business.
5|Must buy best price good quality ,quick delivery
5|If you're putting money on a router put it on this.. Rather than 150mbps (its slightly cheaper version) get this 300mbps router.. Better connectivity in a wider range n works like butter!!
5|Dear Viewers, This is the first product I want to suggest as wifi router because TP Link has the well managed website where we can customize our TP Link wifi router like security etc. Happy Shopping! Thank You,
5|Good luck with the latest version of the most important thing is that the information contained in this email address
5|i have purchase to TP Link router so good prodct i have plan to Purchase for D Link router but i was jase comper all side to before purchase so final i sanpdil to same features for d link more than lase price buy for sanpdil really i am filling for dil ki dil for snapdeal
5|Best router n minimum price ?? Delivery Service is also gud
4|Orderd TP Link on snapdeal. I am completely satisfied with its performance and we are able to use wifi in corner rooms also.Snapdeal service as usual it was excellent. My recommendation must buy
5|Best for BSNL MTNL and other wired internet. I use this with Triple play internet in Gurgaon. Ausam delivery reached yo me within 15 hrs after order was placed with normal delivery.
4|WiFi is working very well in my 2600sq feet house with this device...signals are good across all rooms. Got it at a good price...satisfied with this deal.
5|Kudos to Snapdeal for the product and offering it at best price and GoJava for fastest courier delivery, unlike Bluedart who's very slow and pathetic courier service provider in our area, GOJava is super fast every time. Thanks to them as well.
5|worth of money.. i gotthis for 965rs. router working well
4|Mrp seems to be wrong.. it is available for Rs. 1200 everywhere, though lowest cost is here.. Fast delivery I haven't used the router yet, will check and write more about it!
4|I had heard a lot abt this router so decided to buy it and am glad to say it has not disappointed. Excellent service. Worth a buy if you are looking for good quality Wi-Fi.
5|It was awesome for me to buy this routes and range,speed is supers
5|I received the item yesterday and i configured in few minutes because of its features.It has great bandwidth(300Mbps) and signal range is good.No other router has features like this at this prise.
5|Value for money.. Good reach in signal.. Double antenna helps to improve range..
5|Good item, better connectivity than single antenna routers. Snapdeal delivery good. Packaging good. Configuring router was not difficult but i took help with my ISP just to avoid any mistakes. Good experience overall.
5|Excellent router.. Good work snapdeal.. Good range.. Easy to set up.. Any novice can setup router using the cd
3|I have replaced this router in the place of Cisco e900 which covers area of 900sq feet., the signal is required for more area since i replaced with this but it didn't served my requirements even it doesn't covers area of 1000 sft..
5|perfect, exlent, good working, fast working in home
4|The range is good and has no disconnects , I am using with Tikona Broadband and the Speed is awesome
5|i m using this product from last 2 weeks and it is the best in my experience.Best quality product in such best price.
5|The best router I have till now. Range is really good. Snapdeal has best price.
4|Good product...ideal for home network..wifi..very compatible:) :)
5|This is the most perfect router.... has very god range and came at a very low price (880rs).... the perfect combo..... !
5|Tp link 300 router is too good in this price
5|excellent build quality..very easy to use..and very fast access to network...
4|Got it at competitive price and more than sufficient for 4BHK. High speed.
5|but warranty card is nothing Very nice product router is the using that amajing speed and threeor four peoples at time use
4|I have purchased 6 months back till date no issues ...
5|Works very well... Great value for the price..
5|Three stars for the product and the rest two for its quick delivery(within 4 days)...nothing more to say. In short fully, satisfied with the product and services.
5|Worth Buying this product as this product is very much competitive for DLINK router and this is value for money
5|Nice product , good price - excellent delivery
5|Good in all ...range is good ...catching capacity of network is fine...overall it is good product
5|It is very good with great range but not bete than dlink. Its signal crosses 3 walls smoothly. Best as an Alternative to dlink.
4|I received the item yesterday and i configured in few minutes because of its features.It has great bandwidth(300Mbps) and signal range is good.No other router has features like this at this prise.
4|Am using from last one week and it is working fine. It is covering large area. I recommend every one who going to buy new Wi-Fi router then go with this product.
5|Awesome range and service - 5 star to TP Link. Happy Customer. Using in my appt - Wifi is good. Speed is just great.
5|awesome router. Has great coverage as it covers my 2300 sq ft apartment perfectly. Supports the 100 mbps line from ACT.
5|Good product at lowest price..highly satisfied with product..no interruption in internet till the date..easy setup
5|The best Router is in its class that i had ever bye .Good product are provided by Snapdeal . Thank you snapdeal :)
4|The packing was very nice...the product was very nice as expected. Got the product 3 days
4|Nice product at less price.delivered on right time..
5|Snapdeal yours product and delivery both are top good. The router reached me within 3 days despite of holidays. Thank you snapdeal!
5|Thanks snapdeal!! this is Best router at this price range!!!
5|Good product. Tp link people go for it. Snapdeal thank you for d best price of the router required to me.
4|Very good product with almost no problems I am using it for last 15 days and I didn't have any problems so far.I live on 4 the floor and I still get signal on ground floor. Very well but product.
5|I am using it for last one week &amp; performance looks good. Getting around 72 Mbps speed. I would recommend this buy.
5|I bought this router one week ago and it is an amazing product in a cheap price and range or area of Wi Fi of this router is also brilliant like my Wi Fi is in my home building and i can use easily Wi Fi from downstairs ground floor So Iam fully SATISFIED so THANK YOU
4|excelent item for good price and box pack item deliver.brand new
1|Wifi not working with my laptop. Totally bad product. Don't purchase it.
5|have bought this around 4 Months back. continuously working 24 hours a day since i bought it. extremely stable, loaded with a ton of features, very simple interface, features such as unfair bandwidth allocation and firewall works as expected if configured correctly. only one limitation that i found in this device is that when you configure email to send logs from this device it does not excepts the custom smtp port and hence you wont get logs to your yahoo or gmail from device(its not that important for many people). wifi serves up to a range of 50 meters without obstruction(good for home users). may be they could have added support for few ssl vpn and remote access vpn(would have been useful for small offices) otherwise this is excellent in its existing form. snapdeal was good in pricing and description of the product and TP-Link made this a must have for home users...
5|I had planned to get this for a while, and i finally do :-D firstly it comes with a support of up to 100 Mbps for the wireless but the ports support a max of 10 Mbps per port. but it does the job nicely. the dual antenna says it can transmit up to -5dBi but i had tested it and had received a max of -25dBi placing the wireless device at 1 feet away, but don't get taken aback, -25dBi is good enough. My house is 3 floors and over 3000 sq feet and i had received 90-100 % signal strength at each and every corner. the software installation is easy and it also has a WPA2 security so ur connection is absolutely secure.
5|Awesome router for the price. It is extremely easy to setup, as good as one click away from the provided driver CD. Speeds are good. Range is exceptionally well covering my entire house (I have a 3BHK appartment) So for large houses or small offices, this one is definitely recommended. Pors:- -Easy setup -Fast speeds -Handles streaming well -Very long range -Lots of security options -Compact -Quick startup Cons -White color may get dirty over time -Heats up a wee bit sometimes during heavy traffic -Notification lights are dim In all, an almost perfect router for the given price!
5|A month back I bought this after comparing several routers in the market. As I have to use 40 Mbps and more I had little concern in choosing the right product. Finally chosen TP Link 300 Mbps TL WR841 and installed this in living room in my 2nd floor where I live in an apartment. I could get a clear signal in all my 3 rooms as well even I get a decent signal at ground floor. So far I have not faced any issue. You might need to restart once a week if you keep it on for round the clock. It's worth and get value for the money which I paid.
5|the tp link 300 mbps router is very fast i have a 1 mbps network package but it work very fast after connectiung the router , its a awesome deal and the delivery was very fast its easy to set and works at a ease even a small kid by reading the manual can set it up and it catches 3 floors so my uncle can also use it just now have to pay the ,oney for the connection no need to do mobile data recharge every month ,it amazing i reccomend each one who need a router for home use to buy this router.
5|An ideal choice of router for both home and office users. You can't get better than this at this price. Here i share some keypoints I observed while using this: •excellent range and strength much more than expected, easy to setup, much reliable connection, covers all 3 floors of my home(main rooms where strength is required), gives full speed of my ISP, performance doesn't degrade very much when 3-4 user are connected simultaneously. No cons have been observed so far. Thank you snapdeal .
4|This product works to specifications. good, affordable price and easy to setup. I like the ability to monitor the network devices and manage them as needed. everything is relatively easy to understand except some network control functions. I wish the instructions provided could have better clarity and also in future I wish we can control each IP by download data consumption, ex. if a certain IP consumes its download quota then restrict its access. Overall the product is excellent.
3|Simple to set up and use..range is strictly OK. The biggest disappointment for me was that I bought this to use with my 100 mbps connection but the max it throughputs is 9 mbps (download speed) using wifi and even lower ...around 4 mbps using the ports. Calling customer care ...someone asked me to install am admin software and call them back ...but I ma not a novice and tried every possible method to increase the speed..nothing works. I might try calling them again and seeing. So OK for someone who is using a max connection 10 mbps...using it an area of say a small flat without too many obstructions.
5|Excellent product to buy. Easy to connect. Iam not much tech savvy but the router was easy to connect...straight away and login Boom.. Price is decent..and it has 3 yr warranty. so go for gold. One important point I'd like to make for people who are not aware of routers. go for two antenna routers as they are faster and not much price difference.
5|WR841N Tp link router is too good. i am using the Tp link routers from last 3years and i trust on this brand, easy to use and trustworthy. Overall this routers range is too good.
5|Installation part was pretty much easy..Followed instructions from quick installation guide,signal strength is quite good even after 2-3 walls.Works totally fine with my Asianet Dataline connection,thank you TP link and Snapdeal.
4|this is cheapest and having good features compare to other brand and low price compared to other online and exam time they delivered without fail and packing also good
4|this is a good router . at this price i think its the best . Range is avg but at this price what else do you want ??? I would definitely suggest this one for medium users
3|Its a good router but the range is not too great. Beyond the main room the signal drops drastically. I brought both the 150 Single antenna and this router. I dont see much difference in the two in terms of range. I would recommend that you go for the WR740N model if its for home use and dont need much range
5|really a good router, I used some other router before but this one is the best router in performance I have seen. It will not be interrupted even if you running it for 2 days continuously. Thanks snapdeal and seller for brining me this product.
5|The router is exactly same as I want I have seen many router in market but this router is only one in whole market who had fulfilled my all demand related to the router thanks alot for giving such good product for customer. And I know each and every customer is happy with you... Regards sufiyan...
5|I received my product: TP Link Router(300 Mbps) within 3 days! All the instructions are written and it is easy to install. Snapdeal packing and delivery is great. Thank you!
5|It's perfect and snap deal gave it in correct time so in a month I bought twice same router for me as well as my uncle can buy it it's really worth buying
3|Product is good n delivery is fast n nice n secure but little bit range problem in router it does not gives the range below 3 floor but it covers my entire 1bhk
5|Very happy with snap deal job,product got in good condition, router range is also good I suggest to by Tp links routers for better coverage and cost effective product
5|its a perfect deal for me ...because it is available at reasonable price with a perfect quality. i have never faced any problem with this router. And i personalty want to suggest everyone that don't think ...just go for it ....its a perfect deal !
5|Range of TP-Link WR841N router is good. Setup of the router is extremely easy. This router saved my 1000 bucks by stopping me to buy another expensive router directly from ISP. I am happy with the product.
5|Have been using it for almost a week now. Great Device. With dual Antennathe signal strength is very good. There haven't been any dropouts in the signal so far. Best budget router I would say.
5|This is my first wifi and I am verry happy with it.. This wifi arrived yesterday and its is working fine.. Very compact and easy to install. took me less than 5 minutes to install..speed is also very good. overall very happy with my first wifi
4|When I order from snapdeal i was scared whether I will get what what it showed or not. But when I received the parcel I was happy rant everything what was written was exactly the same. Happy using tp-link. Good product at friendly price. thumbs up for TP-link
5|Best router,easy to install(3 minutes),long range about 2 floors below my floor.Blindly go for it also applicable to cable as well as standard broadband.
4|I want to buy wifi modem &amp; having an opinion that router &amp; modem are sinonyms, however I was wrong. Anyways I had linked router with my existing non wifi modem &amp; my purpose solved. WiFi speed at my home is good. I may recommend to others.
4|I want to thanks snapdeal for this product delevary with in very shorty ..it is a nice product vase range &amp; good net speed and oviously easy to configure by the givven cd...
5|Range is good, it looks compact, tried with netgear AC750, which is a high end router but range was not good, hence i switched back TP link, which is the best and worth investing.
5|been using from the past 6 months. no issues at all, and very good range. currently using it in my2bhk apartment and getting good reception. and finally thanks to team snapdeal for the awesome offer price and very good packing and delivery
5|Much stable....easy to configer....also wifi range is much better then other similar product...also good functionality provides for advanced user....in this price points...i am very happy...thank u snapdeal TM....
5|The router is exactly as per the specifications. Haven't tested the full range yet as my area is not that wide but as per the specs, should be good. The antennas are not detachable (unless you need them to be). Sleek and light. Supports G and N series with 300 Mbps with a 3-yr warranty, so I think its the best value for money at this price range.
4|Connectivity is too fast.Easy installation process, signal strength is exceptional.. Worth buying this router.Thanks Snapdeal for such an excellent deal
5|The product which i have purchased is excellent compare to any other product which i a observed, the specification is much imp than the price i choice TP Link and affordable and Secures me from other issues.
4|I bought TP LINK router on snapdeal. Its should be original product delivery and delivery within time period..i feel awesome experienced but on a snapdeal.
4|Standard product and super standard services.. Variety of products at reasonable rate.. SD going really greeeaattt Recommended to many friends... Keep it up SD...
4|This is a very good product and the installation was a breeze. Just read the manual and followed the instructions provided in the CD and it took me less than 5 minutes to install the product and start using. The signal is very good. I got very good coverage even outside my house and there were couple of thick walls in between. Overall great product and would highly recommend this product.
5|I liked the design and it is very compact and easy to move anywhere you want. It has a superb speed and the range is reaches a long way. Thanks for this. I truly loved this router.
5|I got this WiFi Router at very best price in market and online shopping portals. I am very happy after buying and till now its working fine. My family and friend are also happy coz of this router. So its my dil ki deal. Thanku snapdeal.
5|I've been using this router for quite some time. I've cable broadband. Installation was breeze. Range is quite good. I would say one of the best router in this price bracket.
5|As usual the delivery took a long time, it could be improved by several degrees. It works as it supposed to, easy to configure. range is good too, no connection drop. Using it for 7 months now. Looks better than the picture. If u have a higher budget then I would suggest a Cisco or Asus, but at low cost, it is the best dual antenna router.
4|initially the wrong router was delivered . I send the router back and got my router 841 N. the router has good signal strength.would recommend this router
5|i got this router from snapdeal at a very low price . You cant get this product for lesser value. This router is better than other routers available at higher price than this like belkin nd d-link . Works well in my 3 bhk house ,reaches every corner of my house with decent signal strength. VALUE FOR MONEY PRODUCT.
5|I just bought tp link router I got delivery In 1day with a very good price compare to other, product quality Is very good I am satisfied with my product recommended product and trustworthy
4|This product is really worth of buying .So far i am satisfied .Installation as mentioned in product is easy .It has been a week and i am using my desktop,laptop and Iphone without any issue .It is also covering my entire flat (around 800 sft)..I would give 4 star
4|The range of the router is not very good but its good for a radius of 40 ft without much abstacles. The product is simple to install and has a very user friendly interface. Overall happy with the product.
5|The product arrived in perfect condition. The packaging was perfect to avoid any damage to the product. The product itself was in perfect condition both physically and performance wise.. Excellent buy for any one looking to buy a WiFi Router.
4|Using it since last 1 month works perfectly and easy to install. If any difficulty found just drop a mail to TP Link support they will reach u in 24 hours.
3|There is nothing extraordinary/good about this product. Everything is average. Coverage isn't great. There are performance dips. 2 antennas don't give the device an extra edge. It's a so so device. Nothing great about it. If I had to buy another piece I would not buy TP-Link products again.
5|I am writing this review after 9 days using the router. I was looking for purchase my first router. Then,I found this router with a great discount from Snapdeal.After looking some of its buyers reviews I ordered this.And Snapdeal made a prompt delivery. It was very easy to set up.Though I was not able to set it up alone,one of my friends helped to do that.Signal strength is very weak within 30 meters of radius. AND, I did not get any warranty card in the box as said from Snapdeal.
4|Nice decent product at this price. Strength is decent. Very easy set-up. And you can use your wi-fi securely. Wifi range is upto 2-3 rooms from the router place. Good product for personal usage.
3|GOOD range and Better connectivity.It covers my 700 sft house easily but signal level in my living room is at one point inspite of putting the wifi at the end room. For home use of 2-3bhk,this is a very good product.
5|I was looking for wi-fi router for home with good range as i can sit in garden and still use it.. On snapdeal I bought for less price may be best by sitting at home and order. still works no issue and good range too..
4|Product is working good and delivered in very nice packing. Really worth to purchase from SD. Discounts given are also worthy. I Would definitely recommend this product and also SD. But one concern is -- In the recent days the delivery is not happening directly to the customer hand. For my last 2 purchases and this purchase, product is delivered to some one else. I have to call them 2-3 times and collect the parcel. Before delivery at least the delivery agent has not confirmed any thing on phone. Unfortunately to collect the courier, I have to go to next building and collect parcel - struggling for around 20-30 mins. It will be really great, if snap deal takes care of this going forward.
4|It is a good product from TP Link. On price point of view between 150 Mbps and 300 Mbps, it is little more higher. I recommend this product any of those who want to buy Wireless routers
5|Awesome product.... Speed is Cool... Range is Good (2 Antenna)... its impact is good till 300-400 meter... Above 300m Signal will fall to 1 Bar. STRONGLY RECOMMENDED FOR HOME USERS...!!
4|Its a good product. I am using it as a repeater. It took a little while to bridge it with my belkin router modem but with a lil effort now it works great. For The signal quality i would give it 8/10. Which is decent enough for home use.
5|The delivery was ok but not best. But product is awesome, budget friendly and also perfect for home connection or a small office.The wifi range is best. U get dual Antenna for better wifi frequency. Product is always value for money and i also recommend to all U to buy . Thank U.
4|A very ggod product with very good range and conectivity. Its very easy to set up this router. As a whole a good range router with reasonable price. and the delivery time was really good as usual... keep it up SD. :)
5|Very nice and worth to buy. I have a 1 bhk flat and 4 walls in between two rooms. I was worried for a while, but it gives good range. Feel free to buy. Good work from snapdeal.....
5|Best router in its price. got 750sq ft house and signal reaches every corner of it. easy to setup. But courier service was the worst, misrouted the product and took 15 days to reach.
5|Nice decent product at this price. Strength is decent. Very easy set-up. And you can use your wi-fi securely. Wifi range is upto 2-3 rooms from the router place. Good product for personal usage.
4|It has good range. It covers my 800 sft house. I am staying 2 floor building. I put it on the first floor and I am getting 2/3 out of 5 tower min in every corner of the house. This is a very good product for 2 floor building.
4|I have been using the TP-Link300 MBPs Wireless Router for past 1 Yr. It was easy to setup and connect my mobiles/tvs/tabs/laptops to the router and use.
4|I am happy with the performance of this router. I have installed it in my 3 BHK flat and it has got a excellent coverage. with my earlier equipment, I was never able to get complete bandwidth. But this is really good stuff.
5|awesome range...even i live in third floor of my building and when i try to access my wifi it's so fast.... i am using this product from last 8 months and never got any problem.... i suggest it... go and buy it
5|product support may be an issue for this product. but price wise its good enough. I have been using another router of tp link for more than 6 months and has got no issue so far.
3|though it is a good budget router for 300mbps with double antenna(5dBi) but the range is not as far as expected. pretty limited range. only accesible to 1st floor from 2nd floor but not accessible to ground floor.
5|Well I am first time user of WIFI using this device, Being a layman, the setup process is quite easy. Getting signals without any glitch in all my 5 rooms at home. The performance of this router is very very good. DONT THINK..JUST IT!!!
3|It is good router for 1-2 BHK especially on same floor. I would suggest this router if your requirement is small and limited within some devices with affordable price range. Signal strength are okay within same floor up to 20 meters.
5|I've purchased more than 20 of these routers. Good range and speed at a reasonable cost. If you're budget is higher though, go in for the D-Link DIR-803 AC750 router.
5|The item is perfect. Performance is outstanding in all aspect. Thanks to Snapdeal for such an outstanding service like delivery, customer support, Item quality, price. I am online buyer since 2008 and bought lots of products from different eCommerce site and at present Snapdeal is the best eCommerce portal.
5|I recently bought the same router for myself and it is working fine. This is my second order of the same product for my friend. It is easy to setup and the range is appreciable because of the dual antenna provided ! The build quality is nice. The product was delivered on time. Both the products are working fine. The best part of this purchase was the amazing deal that we found in SNAPDEAL. In other words, SNAPDEAL gave me a good DEAL. Thank you.
5|Hello all, This is a budget router, but believe me this router is nothing less than a high end router. Works perfectly for my 1400 Sqft flat. Though the signal comes down to one bar less in my master bedroom, but that's acceptable because it has to pass through two walls and one wooden wardrobe. A must buy product.
3|Satisfied with delivery experience from snapdeal but not much satisfied with product. Rang is not that great especially for 300 Mbps wireless router category. Works well in single room but wifi losses range when moved to other room thought on same floor. Cannot much differentiate from150 Mbps router range and that’s make me disappoint.
5|Ordered the router on Sunday at 1330 hrs and got it delivered on Tuesday at 1600 hrs, the product was shipped from Delhi to Mumbai. Fantastic service by SD with great packing and COD payment facility at no extra cost. The router was very easy to setup and works perfect for my 700 sqft 1BHK apt. A VFM deal for a 300 mbps router. No need to spend 2K for D-Link, Belkin, etc etc. It looks sleek and it has a wall-hanging holes too at its back (which is not available with D-Link). Go for it! Don't think much.
5|Thank you Snapdeal for such a great product working great from day one. I tried for the product in local market but was not available due to heavy demand and also the product had a price rise for the same. I found Snapdeal very helpful as I got the product available but aso in low price as compare to any other shopping site or even in market. What to say about the Delivery its more than great I ordered the product late in night at around 8:30 pm first day and got the product on the third day at 12 pm in afternoon without any next day option I was more than happy to received the product. Just want to Thank You Snapdeal for fulfilling My Dil Ki Deal .......
5|brought this product 2 months ago. Delivery was very fast and now coming to this product,i share connection with my roomie this router just made it easier din had any trouble installing as it comes with a help guide. range is quite good as i cn access it from another room also.Over all m satisfied and this product is good. ll RECOMMEND TO EVERYONE WHO IS CONFUSED AND IS SEARCHING FOR A ROUTER.
4|This product unlike i expected, didn't amaze me. Its not enough good. But still the features it provide like MAC Binding, MAC Filtering, etc. are good enough. Setting up is very easy. It also has a domain name to set it up: tplinklogin.net That is nice part. The range varies according to the position of the router and number of walls it's signal is required to penetrate. But minimum it has 1700sq.ft. of range (including 3-4 walls in between). The higher you mount the device the better it is.
3|This is a good wi-fi router with averge range. Its really not a high range wi-fi router as advertised on its manufacturer. I got the router when I ordered first, and it was merely having range of 8-10 meter. Beyond 10 meters, the wi-fi just didn't worked. I complained to SnapDeal and it replaced the product, the newer router (same model) work good for 15-18 meter, but still not as advertised.
5|A great buy at a great price. The perfect router for broadband connections and the wi-fi range is simply awesome. This was my second purchase of the router for another residence since the first one was so easy to setup and worked so beautifully. I'd recommend it to everyone looking to buy a wi-fi router.
5|The router is working very well..
5|Nice stuff in low price ,good for students and medium size house
5|Very good.I am using it to convert my IP configured local cable net to wifi for the entire divises in my home
5|Tplink router is good router
5|Very nice service, we satisfied. Nice speed ROUTER.
4|It was very easy to install and range is quite decent as well. The packing was well intact - always increases the confidence in the product.
5|Tp link router is just cool.....with great speed.
4|The router is good in all aspect. The signal strength should have been improved little more.
5|Excellent device.. Easy to set up.. Quick to use Giving good speed because of N technology.. Not a single error come.. As other outer's have it.
4|First wifi router in my home, its works in great speed
4|It's awesome and i am quite impressed with the range..gives good speed and remarkable difference is seen when speed is increased by higher bandwidth
4|Really Good router at this price, giving good range for 2bhk. Consiring price and set up very good. Best for use in home.
5|tp link router deliverd before time....good work snapdeal recommend to my frnd
4|Best ROUTER in this price. Best for cable-net users.
4|Better speed. I am staying 3rd floor in my 4 rooms geting better range even ground floor also, and easy confuguration
5|Good range of coverage distance Easy in installation Using since 5 months No problems were faced
5|This is another deal from snapdeal, and its excellent service with good quality product.
4|I m purchased so osam this device....and also osam working for my personal internet
3|TP-LINK is very nice product
4|It's good. Good speed. Secure. Works 24 hours. But range is limited.
4|looks to be good more signal strength
5|Thank you soooo much snapdeal for such a wonderful router.. Guys go for it. It wont let you down. Trust me.
5|Low price,good quality, I'm satisfied with this product,I recommend for it.
4|Reasonably good signal strength. The variant that I received was a V9 (
  <http: www.tp-link.com n ownload l-wr841n_v9.html>
   ) which implies that it's a somewhat dated variant. The link for the setup utility on the box is outdated as well. However, it should be easy to search and find the setup. Once setup, the device appears to work reasonably.
  </http:>
4|Wifi router is good range is good
5|Very nice it connect from very long distance powerful product in low price
