Using the Mi4i White(16GB) since a week.  BODY: I jus love the way it looks. very LIGHT-WEIGHT, SLEEK and SLIM. All my friends were surprised after holding the phone which weighed so less. And you needn't worry about the smudges on the pure white back as its ANTI-GREASE COATED which means you can just wipe off the smudges with a cloth or eraser or sometimes even your hand. I personally tested this. It works great. If you worried about durability, you can check out the stress test videos of MI4I on youtube.  DISPLAY: You just cant get a better display than this. So vibrant and crisp. Sunlight Display is Awesome. Touch is too good. I heard many people saying there is no Gorilla Glass Protection. I would say they are WRONG. Go check out the video 'Xiaomi Mi 4I Tear Down by Hugo Barra' on Youtube. (Hugo Barra is the Vice President of Xiaomi). He clearly says that the glass is made specially by Corning and is equivalent to Gorilla Glass 3 in its characteristics. UI : One Word... Superb. Looks almost similar to that of I-Phone and is really smooth. Phone initially comes with 6.5.5 which is kinda snappier but now upgraded to 6.7.1 which is the latest release and now the UI is smooth as butter even in balanced performance mode. Update brought many cool features and settings which gives us a lot of customizability to the UI. Active community where you can post your feedback and get their replies. One more cool thing is we can flash any MIUI version with the inbuilt updater app. Just download the version you want to install and copy it into the phone and flash it using the updater app. MiPhone Manager software is also available to provide even more features like Casting screen to System without wifi.  CAMERA: I BOUGHT THIS PHONE MAINLY FOR THE CAMERAS. The best in the price point or may be even beyond it. Both the cameras do a FANTASTIC job. Daylight photos are just Amazing. The amount of detail it captures really surprised me when I compared it with models in the similar price range like Moto G 3rd Gen. Pictures are way better. You can compare the photo quality in www.gsmarena.com .  BATTERY: REALLY GOOD. Lasted for 1day 10 hours 20min, which included screen-on time of 5hours 40 minutes, 44Min of voice calls, 10hours of wifi for WhatsApp,Gmail and Google Drive. Charging is quite fast too.  CONNECTIVITY: Connectivity is way better than my old phone(Samsung Galaxy Fame). Signal Reception is quite good and there are no call drops which were very frequent on my old phone as I stay in the outskirts of the city.  Latest WIFI and Bluetooth Protocols.  I heard many people complaining about heating and low sound but those issues are RESOLVED with MIUI updates. Now the speaker is loud enough and heating reduced quite significantly.  The only problem people might face could be the lack of Extendable memory slot which I think may not be an issue if you carry an OTG cable. Just copy the things which you feel aren't that necessary into the Hard-Disk or pen drive with the OTG cable and you are good to go. (Watch the tear-down video for reasons why they dint provide the External SD Card Slot)  I WOULD DEFINITELY RECOMMEND THIS PHONE TO ANY PERSON.
