Hai.. I bought this mobile for my sister.. This is her first smartphone.. The phone Was delivered in good packin. Talking about the phone, the phone has a good built quality. It is very easy to hold and also u can use one hand option in the settings. Perfect size for girls.. The 1st thing when u notice after booting is the display quality. It is not notch and is right up their with iphones. Vibrant crisp and clear! sharp has done a great job. The response from the phone pretty good and after the update even small lags went.. It is easy to use and u will like it.. Lots of customization options available.. The phone weighs light u don't even feel it. Talking about the camera it is very good indeed. Photos taken under adequate light turned out to be rich in detail. Colours are natural.. It is the best camera at this price I have ever seen so far.. Front camera too. I bought this phone just for two reasons one is camera and other is display quality and siz. I am nother at all disappointed. Talking about the performance it does a great job in handling apps. But I don't know why my FB messenger not opening. It just shows a white screen whenever I opened it. Other apps performed well. My sister is not a gamer like me. I use Sony Xperia Z ultra and it handles games exceptionally well. But I tried small games that my sis might play like subway surfers and temple run. Both played very well in performance mode. I felt slight heating at the top but not a deal breaker Infact u would feel the same amount of in other ddevices. I saw in YouTube that the device crossed 50C while playing FPS games like Nova 3 but anyway my sis is not gonna play while I do everyday. Audio quality is good and get good pair headphones from Sony or other OEM. I like the quick charge and it does work well. Moderate users can get a day eeasily. At times it looks like Iphone which is kinda cool. I bought after lot research and I made a right choice. 1 con people would say is the lack of expandable storage but she has a laptop and also the mobile has OTG support so no problem.. I won't rate it 5 out 5 if I bought this from me because I am gamer and this device can't handle crunch situation but it does a good job for my sis. The game can handle heavy games but the problem is heating U won't see any drop frames while playing Asphalt 8 and Modern combat in performance mode but Nova 3 lags. So there u go a good device for this money. I would recommend this for moderate gamers. But if u r not a heavy gamer then u can register it now..
