Like other customer, I too brought this phone after reading lot of reviews from different websites.  The reviews below are long, but I thought that it might help someone for effective usage of product. The reviews below are intended for those who made up their mind for buying the product and blocked due to negative critics. The features of the phone is already mentioned everywhere and there is nothing to add into it. There were negative comments and my opinion is that there are no products in world which can satisfy 100 % customers. Even iphone 6 has few 1 star rating.  Battery – It is 3000 mAH and it can easily stand up to 24 hours.( Note that the heavy usage is different from person to person.  For some, heavy usage is playing games all the day where display as well as processor/ ram will be running at high speed. For some, it all about browsing and reading news papers. For some it is being active in social media for the whole day.So let me explain my scenario where it stood for 1 full day.(24 hrs)  • Continuous messaging on whats app where I keep receiving and sending messages.  • Play Asphalt 8 game for almost 1 hour a day • Check facebook along with few videos in posts, for approximately 30-45 minute each and also checking mails. • Read news papers of various languages for approx 2 hour a day • The syncing is on during the period for face book, whatsapp, gmail and corporate mail for the whole day. After reading battery usage statistics, ( phone data in 3g) Screen time on - 6 hours with 50 % brightness  All other apps were running in background.  There were days where it stood for more than 1.5 days where i have not played games during those period.  Execellent and crisp display Sunlight leigibility works as demonstrated Excellent battery backup Updated the software around 810 MB light warm during Gaming No heating during making calls Simply superb Good notification led Good camera Played hd games withiut any lag like asphalt 8  + Battery + Camera(front n rear) + UI + SCREEN :} + NO LAGS  - No headphones - lack of accessories in market  Just go for it without any thoughts. Dont confuse by seeing the reviews as its getting heated like heater, i think some are new for this, so rating badly.  IMPORTANT POINT: After opening the box, use the phone with battery and drain completely. Charge the phone to 100% in switch off mode. ( Note – No overcharging or overnight recharge) Repeat the same for 3 cycles ( use and complete drain, then recharge). After 3 cycles, always charge the phone only when the battery is below 10 % and charge fully.  Heating of Mobile is Common for first 2-3 days, use these 3 days heavily,
