Edited after two weeks use  I'm not writing a review but recommending this phone to everyone who wish for an iPhone 6 but can't buy it. This phone is better in most ways, than the iPhone 6. Including the screen size, resolution, camera quality, battery life and speed of apps like camera, email, and all productive apps. Only that iPhone is metal look and this is plastic look. But it doesn't look cheap at all. The back is matte finish (high quality polycarbonate) so smooth and can easily be used with one hand.  Pros? 1) Screen resolution, colors and sunlight brightness – Awesome  2) A) Battery life – for clicking photos, checking emails, whatsapp, reading news, few calls and showing off phone to colleagues, it easily lasts a day. - Awesome  2) B) Exact timing? If your screen is continuously on with 3g connected and chatting, browsing then every 5 minutes 1 percent down. That is around 10 – 12 percent down for an hour, which comes to around / approx. 10 hours of screen on time – Awesome. You will get tired, viewing the phone so much time per day. It is not good for your health.  3) Camera – Best Camera you can get for the price. It’s simply awesome in daylight, because of true color reproduction. Indoor too it’s very good. So many options, like with flash, HDR, HDR live, or continuous flash on, for better lighting of photos. A small tip- In out doors just keep your subject less than a meter close to the mobile and give 3-1 space in the frame for the background and you get DSLR effect with background blurred. Awesome – You don’t need a cam for emergency; this is always there with you. One more tip – Actually the original settings of camera is normal. You have to press the menu button and in the settings increase it to “high quality”. There are so many settings as you like to increase quality of photos. Maybe that’s why people who have not done this say camera is average.  4) Front cam – beautifies you. Really makes you look younger. Good enough.  5) Apps open real fast, if you can go to developer mode and increase the speed of animator by .5x its really fast. You won’t feel the lag in opening apps. You can Google “developer options for MIUI.” There are plenty of options to better your phone  6) Security App of MIUI – Awesome. You don’t need any third party software to maintain your phone to make it run smoothly. Yes, with so many options. No need of battery guru, antivirus, speed booster etc.  7) The phone itself is lightweight and durable. It is the best combination for a phone. If you compare price to product ratio, then only 25000 rupees above phones can come near this. That is really awesome.  Cons? 1) I haven’t installed any games since I don't want to waste time. Maybe it heats up while gaming, but I don’t care. For me it is a perfect device. 2) The speaker is not loud, but it is ok. And I mostly use headphones to hear songs or watch movies, which is awesome. After all however loud the speaker is you cannot enjoy the full spectrum of music unless you have a headphone. Basically the call related loudspeaker is loud enough. 3) No SD card... But for me every week all the photos and videos get uploaded to Google and I free up the space keeping only the best ones in mobile. Moreover it has OTG so you can copy any movies etc. from pen drive and watch if that’s important to you. But since its just 16 GB it’s quite fast in working.  And I recommend this to whoever wants a high quality and productive mobile, which includes awesome call quality and functions, high quality camera, official and personal emails, whatsapp, internet banking apps, documents and power point creations etc, etc... Also I liked was converting a word doc into pdf. and reading in mobile mode. Awesome. There is so much we can talk about the phone, but this is it.  Don't miss such a masterpiece by looking at unnecessary negative reviews. There is no perfect phone in this world. And this phone is full of awesomeness and very less of cons. So go for it. Peace
